[110th Congress Public Law 177]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ177.110]

[[Page 2533]]

                       COURT SECURITY IMPROVEMENT      

                               ACT OF 2007

[[Page 121 STAT. 2534]]

Public Law 110-177
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To amend title 18, United States Code, to protect judges, prosecutors, 
witnesses, victims, and their family members, and for other <<NOTE: Jan. 
                    7, 2008 -  [H.R. 660]>> purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Court Security Improvement 
Act of 2007.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 28 USC 1 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Court Security Improvement Act of 
2007''.

           TITLE I--JUDICIAL SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS AND FUNDING

SEC. 101. JUDICIAL BRANCH SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Ensuring Consultation With the Judiciary.--Section 566 of title 
28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) The Director of the United States Marshals Service shall 
consult with the Judicial Conference of the United States on a 
continuing basis regarding the security requirements for the judicial 
branch of the United States Government, to ensure that the views of the 
Judicial Conference regarding the security requirements for the judicial 
branch of the Federal Government are taken into account when determining 
staffing levels, setting priorities for programs regarding judicial 
security, and allocating judicial security resources. In this paragraph, 
the term `judicial security' includes the security of buildings housing 
the judiciary, the personal security of judicial officers, the 
assessment of threats made to judicial officers, and the protection of 
all other judicial personnel. The United States Marshals Service retains 
final authority regarding security requirements for the judicial branch 
of the Federal Government.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 331 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``The Judicial Conference shall consult with the Director of United 
States Marshals Service on a continuing basis regarding the security 
requirements for the judicial branch of the United States Government, to 
ensure that the views of the Judicial Conference regarding the security 
requirements for the judicial branch of the Federal Government are taken 
into account when determining staffing levels, setting priorities for 
programs regarding judicial security, and allocating judicial security 
resources. In this paragraph, the term `judicial security' includes the 
security of buildings housing the judiciary, the personal security of 
judicial

[[Page 121 STAT. 2535]]

officers, the assessment of threats made to judicial officers, and the 
protection of all other judicial personnel. The United States Marshals 
Service retains final authority regarding security requirements for the 
judicial branch of the Federal Government.''.

SEC. 102. PROTECTION OF UNITED STATES TAX COURT.

    (a) In General.--Section 566(a) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``and the Court of International Trade'' and 
inserting ``, the Court of International Trade, and the United States 
Tax Court, as provided by law''.
    (b) Internal Revenue Code.--Section 7456(c) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of <<NOTE: 26 USC 7456.>> 1986 (relating to incidental powers of 
the Tax Court) is amended in the matter following paragraph (3), by 
striking the period at the end, and inserting ``and may otherwise 
provide, when requested by the chief judge of the Tax Court, for the 
security of the Tax Court, including the personal protection of Tax 
Court judges, court officers, witnesses, and other threatened persons in 
the interests of justice, where criminal intimidation impedes on the 
functioning of the judicial process or any other official proceeding. 
The United States Marshals Service retains final authority regarding 
security requirements for the Tax Court.''.

    (c) Reimbursement.--The <<NOTE: 26 USC 7456 note.>> United States 
Tax Court shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service for 
protection provided under the amendments made by this section.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: Appropriation authorization.>> ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FOR 
            UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE TO PROTECT THE JUDICIARY.

    In addition to any other amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
the United States Marshals Service, there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the United States Marshals Service $20,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2007 through 2011 for--
            (1) hiring entry-level deputy marshals for providing 
        judicial security;
            (2) hiring senior-level deputy marshals for investigating 
        threats to the judiciary and providing protective details to 
        members of the judiciary, assistant United States attorneys, and 
        other attorneys employed by the Federal Government; and
            (3) for the Office of Protective Intelligence, for hiring 
        senior-level deputy marshals, hiring program analysts, and 
        providing secure computer systems.

SEC. 104. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORTS.

    Section 105(b)(3) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended by striking ``2009'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``2011''.

 TITLE II--CRIMINAL LAW ENHANCEMENTS TO PROTECT JUDGES, FAMILY MEMBERS, 
                              AND WITNESSES

SEC. 201. PROTECTIONS AGAINST MALICIOUS RECORDING OF FICTITIOUS LIENS 
            AGAINST FEDERAL JUDGES AND FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.

    (a) Offense.--Chapter 73 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 121 STAT. 2536]]

``Sec. 1521. Retaliating against a Federal judge or Federal law 
                        enforcement officer by false claim or slander of 
                        title

    ``Whoever files, attempts to file, or conspires to file, in any 
public record or in any private record which is generally available to 
the public, any false lien or encumbrance against the real or personal 
property of an individual described in section 1114, on account of the 
performance of official duties by that individual, knowing or having 
reason to know that such lien or encumbrance is false or contains any 
materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, 
shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for not more than 10 
years, or both.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter 73 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new item:

``1521. Retaliating against a Federal judge or Federal law enforcement 
           officer by false claim or slander of title.''.

SEC. 202. PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUALS PERFORMING CERTAIN OFFICIAL DUTIES.

    (a) Offense.--Chapter 7 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 119. Protection of individuals performing certain official duties

    ``(a) In General.--Whoever knowingly makes restricted personal 
information about a covered person, or a member of the immediate family 
of that covered person, publicly available--
            ``(1) with the intent to threaten, intimidate, or incite the 
        commission of a crime of violence against that covered person, 
        or a member of the immediate family of that covered person; or
            ``(2) with the intent and knowledge that the restricted 
        personal information will be used to threaten, intimidate, or 
        facilitate the commission of a crime of violence against that 
        covered person, or a member of the immediate family of that 
        covered person,

shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or 
both.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `restricted personal information' means, with 
        respect to an individual, the Social Security number, the home 
        address, home phone number, mobile phone number, personal email, 
        or home fax number of, and identifiable to, that individual;
            ``(2) the term `covered person' means--
                    ``(A) an individual designated in section 1114;
                    ``(B) a grand or petit juror, witness, or other 
                officer in or of, any court of the United States, or an 
                officer who may be, or was, serving at any examination 
                or other proceeding before any United States magistrate 
                judge or other committing magistrate;
                    ``(C) an informant or witness in a Federal criminal 
                investigation or prosecution; or
                    ``(D) a State or local officer or employee whose 
                restricted personal information is made publicly 
                available

[[Page 121 STAT. 2537]]

                because of the participation in, or assistance provided 
                to, a Federal criminal investigation by that officer or 
                employee;
            ``(3) the term `crime of violence' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 16; and
            ``(4) the term `immediate family' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 115(c)(2).''.

    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new item:

``119. Protection of individuals performing certain official duties.''.

SEC. 203. PROHIBITION OF POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS IN FEDERAL 
            COURT FACILITIES.

    Section 930(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``or other dangerous weapon'' after ``firearm''.

SEC. 204. CLARIFICATION OF VENUE FOR RETALIATION AGAINST A WITNESS.

    Section 1513 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(g) A prosecution under this section may be brought in the 
district in which the official proceeding (whether pending, about to be 
instituted, or completed) was intended to be affected, or in which the 
conduct constituting the alleged offense occurred.''.

SEC. 205. MODIFICATION OR TAMPERING WITH A WITNESS, VICTIM, OR AN 
            INFORMANT OFFENSE.

    Section 1512 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
            ``(A) in the case of a killing, the punishment provided in 
        sections 1111 and 1112;'';
                    (B) in the matter following clause (ii) of 
                subparagraph (B) by striking ``20 years'' and inserting 
                ``30 years''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``10 years'' 
                and inserting ``20 years'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``ten years'' and 
        inserting ``20 years''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``one year'' and 
        inserting ``3 years''.

SEC. 206. MODIFICATION OF RETALIATION OFFENSE.

    Section 1513 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B)--
                    (A) by inserting a comma after ``probation''; and
                    (B) by striking the comma which immediately follows 
                another comma;
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by striking ``20 years'' and 
        inserting ``30 years'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) by inserting a comma after ``probation''; 
                      and
                          (ii) by striking the comma which immediately 
                      follows another comma; and
                    (B) in the matter following paragraph (2), by 
                striking ``ten years'' and inserting ``20 years''; and
            (4) by redesignating the second subsection (e) as subsection 
        (f).

[[Page 121 STAT. 2538]]

SEC. 207. GENERAL MODIFICATIONS OF FEDERAL MURDER CRIME AND RELATED 
            CRIMES.

    Section 1112(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``ten years'' and inserting ``15 years''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``six years'' and inserting ``8 years''.

SEC. 208. ASSAULT PENALTIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 115(b) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``(1)'' and all that follows through the end of 
paragraph (1) and inserting the following: ``(1) The punishment for an 
assault in violation of this section is--
            ``(A) a fine under this title; and
            ``(B)(i) if the assault consists of a simple assault, a term 
        of imprisonment for not more than 1 year;
            ``(ii) if the assault involved physical contact with the 
        victim of that assault or the intent to commit another felony, a 
        term of imprisonment for not more than 10 years;
            ``(iii) if the assault resulted in bodily injury, a term of 
        imprisonment for not more than 20 years; or
            ``(iv) if the assault resulted in serious bodily injury (as 
        that term is defined in section 1365 of this title, and 
        including any conduct that, if the conduct occurred in the 
        special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United 
        States, would violate section 2241 or 2242 of this title) or a 
        dangerous weapon was used during and in relation to the offense, 
        a term of imprisonment for not more than 30 years.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 111(a) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``in all other cases'' and inserting 
``where such acts involve physical contact with the victim of that 
assault or the intent to commit another felony''.

SEC. 209. <<NOTE: 28 USC 994 note.>> DIRECTION TO THE SENTENCING 
            COMMISSION.

    The United States Sentencing Commission is directed to review the 
Sentencing Guidelines as they apply to threats punishable under section 
115 of title 18, United States Code, that occur over the Internet, and 
determine whether and by how much that circumstance should aggravate the 
punishment pursuant to section 994 of title 28, United States Code. In 
conducting the study, the Commission shall take into consideration the 
number of such threats made, the intended number of recipients of such 
threats, and whether the initial senders of such threats were acting in 
an individual capacity or as part of a larger group.

 TITLE III--PROTECTING STATE AND LOCAL JUDGES AND RELATED GRANT PROGRAMS

SEC. 301. GRANTS TO STATES TO PROTECT WITNESSES AND VICTIMS OF CRIMES.

    (a) In General.--Section 31702 of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13862) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 121 STAT. 2539]]

            ``(5) by a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe 
        to create and expand witness and victim protection programs to 
        prevent threats, intimidation, and retaliation against victims 
        of, and witnesses to, violent crimes.''.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 31707 of the Violent 
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13867) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 31707. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for each of 
the fiscal years 2008 through 2012 to carry out this subtitle.''.

SEC. 302. ELIGIBILITY OF STATE COURTS FOR CERTAIN FEDERAL GRANTS.

    (a) Correctional Options Grants.--Section 515 of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3762a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) grants to State courts to improve security for State 
        and local court systems.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:

``Priority shall be given to State court applicants under subsection 
(a)(4) that have the greatest demonstrated need to provide security in 
order to administer justice.''.
    (b) Allocations.--Section 516(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3762b) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``80'' and inserting ``70'';
            (2) by striking ``and 10'' and inserting ``10''; and
            (3) by inserting before the period the following: ``, and 10 
        percent for section 515(a)(4)''.

    (c) State and <<NOTE: 42 USC 3702.>> Local Governments To Consider 
Courts.--The Attorney General may require, as appropriate, that whenever 
a State or unit of local government or Indian tribe applies for a grant 
from the Department of Justice, the State, unit, or tribe demonstrate 
that, in developing the application and distributing funds, the State, 
unit, or tribe--
            (1) considered the needs of the judicial branch of the 
        State, unit, or tribe, as the case may be;
            (2) consulted with the chief judicial officer of the highest 
        court of the State, unit, or tribe, as the case may be; and
            (3) consulted with the chief law enforcement officer of the 
        law enforcement agency responsible for the security needs of the 
        judicial branch of the State, unit, or tribe, as the case may 
        be.

    (d) Armor Vests.--Section 2501 of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796ll) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and State and local 
        court officers'' after ``tribal law enforcement officers''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``State or local 
        court,'' after ``government,''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 2540]]

SEC. 303. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3714a.>> GRANTS TO STATES FOR THREAT ASSESSMENT 
            DATABASES.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General, through the Office of Justice 
Programs, shall make grants under this section to the highest State 
courts in States participating in the program, for the purpose of 
enabling such courts to establish and maintain a threat assessment 
database described in subsection (b).
    (b) Database.--For purposes of subsection (a), a threat assessment 
database is a database through which a State can--
            (1) analyze trends and patterns in domestic terrorism and 
        crime;
            (2) project the probabilities that specific acts of domestic 
        terrorism or crime will occur; and
            (3) develop measures and procedures that can effectively 
        reduce the probabilities that those acts will occur.

    (c) Core Elements.--The Attorney General shall define a core set of 
data elements to be used by each database funded by this section so that 
the information in the database can be effectively shared with other 
States and with the Department of Justice.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2008 through 2011.

                   TITLE IV--LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS

SEC. 401. REPORT ON SECURITY OF FEDERAL PROSECUTORS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the 
Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report on the security of 
assistant United States attorneys and other Federal attorneys arising 
from the prosecution of terrorists, violent criminal gangs, drug 
traffickers, gun traffickers, white supremacists, those who commit fraud 
and other white-collar offenses, and other criminal cases.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
describe each of the following:
            (1) The number and nature of threats and assaults against 
        attorneys handling prosecutions described in subsection (a) and 
        the reporting requirements and methods.
            (2) The security measures that are in place to protect the 
        attorneys who are handling prosecutions described in subsection 
        (a), including threat assessments, response procedures, 
        availability of security systems and other devices, firearms 
        licensing (deputations), and other measures designed to protect 
        the attorneys and their families.
            (3) The firearms deputation policies of the Department of 
        Justice, including the number of attorneys deputized and the 
        time between receipt of threat and completion of the deputation 
        and training process.
            (4) For each requirement, measure, or policy described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (3), when the requirement, measure, or 
        policy was developed and who was responsible for developing and 
        implementing the requirement, measure, or policy.

[[Page 121 STAT. 2541]]

            (5) The programs that are made available to the attorneys 
        for personal security training, including training relating to 
        limitations on public information disclosure, basic home 
        security, firearms handling and safety, family safety, mail 
        handling, counter-surveillance, and self-defense tactics.
            (6) The measures that are taken to provide attorneys 
        handling prosecutions described in subsection (a) with secure 
        parking facilities, and how priorities for such facilities are 
        established--
                    (A) among Federal employees within the facility;
                    (B) among Department of Justice employees within the 
                facility; and
                    (C) among attorneys within the facility.
            (7) The frequency attorneys handling prosecutions described 
        in subsection (a) are called upon to work beyond standard work 
        hours and the security measures provided to protect attorneys at 
        such times during travel between office and available parking 
        facilities.
            (8) With respect to attorneys who are licensed under State 
        laws to carry firearms, the policy of the Department of Justice 
        as to--
                    (A) carrying the firearm between available parking 
                and office buildings;
                    (B) securing the weapon at the office buildings; and
                    (C) equipment and training provided to facilitate 
                safe storage at Department of Justice facilities.
            (9) The offices in the Department of Justice that are 
        responsible for ensuring the security of attorneys handling 
        prosecutions described in subsection (a), the organization and 
        staffing of the offices, and the manner in which the offices 
        coordinate with offices in specific districts.
            (10) The role, if any, that the United States Marshals 
        Service or any other Department of Justice component plays in 
        protecting, or providing security services or training for, 
        attorneys handling prosecutions described in subsection (a).

                    TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 501. EXPANDED PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR THE UNITED STATES 
            SENTENCING COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--Section 995 of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) The Commission may--
            ``(1) use available funds to enter into contracts for the 
        acquisition of severable services for a period that begins in 1 
        fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year, to the same extent 
        as executive agencies may enter into such contracts under the 
        authority of section 303L of the Federal Property and 
        Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253l);
            ``(2) enter into multi-year contracts for the acquisition of 
        property or services to the same extent as executive agencies 
        may enter into such contracts under the authority of section 
        304B of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
        1949 (41 U.S.C. 254c); and
            ``(3) make advance, partial, progress, or other payments 
        under contracts for property or services to the same extent

[[Page 121 STAT. 2542]]

        as executive agencies may make such payments under the authority 
        of section 305 of the Federal Property and Administrative 
        Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 255).''.

    (b) Sunset.--The <<NOTE: 28 USC 995 note.>> amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall cease to have force and effect on September 30, 
2010.

SEC. 502. MAGISTRATE JUDGES LIFE INSURANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 604(a)(5) of title 28, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after ``hold office during good behavior'', the 
following: ``magistrate judges appointed under section 631 of this 
title,''.
    (b) Construction.--For <<NOTE: 5 USC 8701 note.>> purposes of 
construing and applying chapter 87 of title 5, United States Code, 
including any adjustment of insurance rates by regulation or otherwise, 
the following categories of judicial officers shall be deemed to be 
judges of the United States as described under section 8701 of title 5, 
United States Code:
            (1) Magistrate judges appointed under section 631 of title 
        28, United States Code.
            (2) Magistrate judges retired under section 377 of title 28, 
        United States Code.

    (c) Effective <<NOTE: 28 USC 604 note.>> Date.--Subsection (b) and 
the amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any 
payment made on or after the first day of the first applicable pay 
period beginning on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 503. ASSIGNMENT OF JUDGES.

    Section 296 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
at the end of the second undesignated paragraph the following new 
sentence: ``However, a district judge who has retired from regular 
active service under section 371(b) of this title, when designated and 
assigned to the court to which such judge was appointed, having 
performed in the preceding calendar year an amount of work equal to or 
greater than the amount of work an average judge in active service on 
that court would perform in 6 months, and having elected to exercise 
such powers, shall have the powers of a judge of that court to 
participate in appointment of court officers and magistrate judges, 
rulemaking, governance, and administrative matters.''.

SEC. 504. SENIOR JUDGE PARTICIPATION IN THE SELECTION OF MAGISTRATE 
            JUDGES.

    Section 631(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Northern Mariana Islands'' the first place it appears and 
inserting ``Northern Mariana Islands (including any judge in regular 
active service and any judge who has retired from regular active service 
under section 371(b) of this title, when designated and assigned to the 
court to which such judge was appointed)''.

SEC. 505. GUARANTEEING COMPLIANCE WITH PRISONER PAYMENT COMMITMENTS.

    Section 3624(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the last sentence and inserting 
the <<NOTE: Notification.>> following: ``Upon the release of a prisoner 
by the Bureau of Prisons to supervised release, the Bureau of Prisons 
shall notify such prisoner, verbally and in writing, of the requirement 
that the prisoner adhere to an installment schedule, not to exceed 2 
years except in special circumstances, to pay for any fine imposed for 
the offense committed

[[Page 121 STAT. 2543]]

by such prisoner, and of the consequences of failure to pay such fines 
under sections 3611 through 3614 of this title.''.

SEC. 506. STUDY AND REPORT.

    The Attorney General shall study whether the generally open public 
access to State and local records imperils the safety of the Federal 
judiciary. Not later than 18 months after the enactment of this Act, the 
Attorney General shall report to Congress the results of that study 
together with any recommendations the Attorney General deems necessary.

SEC. 507. REAUTHORIZATION OF FUGITIVE APPREHENSION TASK FORCES.

    Section 6(b) of the Presidential Threat Protection Act of 2000 (28 
U.S.C. 566 note; Public Law 106-544) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after ``fiscal year 2002,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, and $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2008 through 2012'' before the period.

SEC. 508. <<NOTE: 49 USC 30301 note.>> INCREASED PROTECTION OF FEDERAL 
            JUDGES.

    (a) Minimum Document Requirements.--
            (1) Minimum requirements.--For purposes of section 202(b)(6) 
        of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (49 U.S.C. 30301 note), a State may, 
        in the case of an individual described in subparagraph (A) or 
        (B) of paragraph (2), include in a driver's license or other 
        identification card issued to that individual by the State, the 
        address specified in that subparagraph in lieu of the 
        individual's address of principle residence.
            (2) Individuals and information.--The individuals and 
        addresses referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
                    (A) In the case of a Justice of the United States, 
                the address of the United States Supreme Court.
                    (B) In the case of a judge of a Federal court, the 
                address of the courthouse.

    (b) Verification of Information.--For purposes of section 
202(c)(1)(D) of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (49 U.S.C. 30301 note), in the 
case of an individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection 
(a)(2), a State need only require documentation of the address appearing 
on the individual's driver's license or other identification card issued 
by that State to the individual.

SEC. 509. FEDERAL JUDGES FOR COURTS OF APPEALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 44(a) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended in the table--
            (1) in the item relating to the District of Columbia 
        Circuit, by striking ``12'' and inserting ``11''; and
            (2) in the item relating to the Ninth Circuit, by striking 
        ``28'' and inserting ``29''.

    (b) Effective <<NOTE: 28 USC 44 note.>> Date.--The amendments made 
by subsection (a)(2) shall take effect on January 21, 2009.

SEC. 510. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE STUDY AND REPORT.

    (a) Study Required.--The Director of the National Institute of 
Justice (referred to in this section as the ``Director'') shall conduct 
a study to determine and compile the collateral consequences of 
convictions for criminal offenses in the United States, each of the 50 
States, each territory of the United States, and the District of 
Columbia.

[[Page 121 STAT. 2544]]

    (b) Activities Under Study.--In conducting the study under 
subsection (a), the Director shall identify any provision in the 
Constitution, statutes, or administrative rules of each jurisdiction 
described in that subsection that imposes collateral sanctions or 
authorizes the imposition of disqualifications, and any provision that 
may afford relief from such collateral sanctions and disqualifications.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress a 
        report on the activities carried out under this section.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include a compilation of citations, text, and short 
        descriptions of any provision identified under subsection (b).
            (3) Distribution.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall be distributed to the legislature and chief executive of 
        each of the 50 States, each territory of the United States, and 
        the District of Columbia.

    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collateral consequence.--The term ``collateral 
        consequence'' means a collateral sanction or a disqualification.
            (2) Collateral sanction.--The term ``collateral sanction''--
                    (A) means a penalty, disability, or disadvantage, 
                however denominated, that is imposed by law as a result 
                of an individual's conviction for a felony, misdemeanor, 
                or other offense, but not as part of the judgment of the 
                court; and
                    (B) does not include a term of imprisonment, 
                probation, parole, supervised release, fine, assessment, 
                forfeiture, restitution, or the costs of prosecution.
            (3) Disqualification.--The term ``disqualification'' means a 
        penalty, disability, or disadvantage, however denominated, that 
        an administrative agency, official, or a court in a civil 
        proceeding is authorized, but not required, to impose on an 
        individual convicted of a felony, misdemeanor, or other offense 
        on grounds relating to the conviction.

[[Page 121 STAT. 2545]]

SEC. 511. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.

    Section 2255 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
designating the 8 undesignated paragraphs as subsections (a) through 
(h), respectively.

    Approved January 7, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 660 (S. 378):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 110-218, Pt. 1 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 110-42 accompanying S. 378 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 153 (2007):
            July 10, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 17, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Dec. 19, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>