[110th Congress Public Law 257]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ257.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 2426]]

Public Law 110-257
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To <<NOTE: July 1, 2008 -  [H.R. 5690]>> remove the African National 
Congress from treatment as a terrorist organization for certain acts or 
   events, provide relief for certain members of the African National 
        Congress regarding admissibility, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXEMPTION OF AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS FROM TREATMENT 
                              AS TERRORIST ORGANIZATION FOR 
                              CERTAIN ACTS OR EVENTS.

    Section 691(b) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2008 (division J of Public Law 110-
161; 121 Stat. 2365) is amended by inserting ``the African National 
Congress (ANC),'' after ``the Karenni National Progressive Party,''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> RELIEF FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF 
                    THE AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS REGARDING 
                    ADMISSIBILITY.

    (a) Exemption Authority.--The Secretary of State, after consultation 
with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, after consultation with the Secretary of 
State and the Attorney General, may determine, in such Secretary's sole 
and unreviewable discretion, that paragraphs (2)(A)(i)(I), (2)(B), and 
(3)(B) (other than clause (i)(II)) of section 212(a) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) shall not apply to an alien with 
respect to activities undertaken in association with the African 
National Congress in opposition to apartheid rule in South Africa.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security should 
immediately exercise in appropriate instances the authority in 
subsection (a) to exempt the anti-apartheid activities of aliens who are 
current or former officials of the Government of the Republic of South 
Africa.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 8 USC 1182 note.>> REMOVAL OF CERTAIN AFFECTED 
                    INDIVIDUALS FROM CERTAIN UNITED STATES 
                    GOVERNMENT DATABASES.

    The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney General, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall take 
all necessary steps to ensure that databases used to determine 
admissibility to the United States are updated so that

[[Page 122 STAT. 2427]]

 they are consistent with the exemptions provided under section 2.

    Approved July 1, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5690:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 110-620, Pt. 1 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 154 (2008):
            May 6, 8, considered and passed House.
            June 26, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>