[110th Congress Public Law 28]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ028.110]

[[Page 111]]

                    U.S. TROOP READINESS, VETERANS' 
CARE, KATRINA RECOVERY, AND IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2007

[[Page 121 STAT. 112]]

Public Law 110-28
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations and additional supplemental 
 appropriations for agricultural and other emergency assistance for the 
          fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: May 25, 2007 -  [H.R. 2206]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: U.S. 
Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and 
Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, 
Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

TITLE I--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEFENSE, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, 
           AND OTHER SECURITY-RELATED NEEDS
TITLE II--HURRICANE KATRINA RECOVERY
TITLE III--ADDITIONAL DEFENSE, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, AND HOMELAND 
           SECURITY PROVISIONS
TITLE IV--ADDITIONAL HURRICANE DISASTER RELIEF AND RECOVERY
TITLE V--OTHER EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS
TITLE VI--OTHER MATTERS
TITLE VII--ELIMINATION OF SCHIP SHORTFALL AND OTHER HEALTH MATTERS
TITLE VIII--FAIR MINIMUM WAGE AND TAX RELIEF
TITLE IX--AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE
TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2007.

[[Page 121 STAT. 113]]

TITLE I--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEFENSE, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, 
                    AND OTHER SECURITY-RELATED NEEDS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      Foreign Agricultural Service


                     Public Law 480 Title II Grants


    For an additional amount for ``Public Law 480 Title II Grants'', 
during the current fiscal year, not otherwise recoverable, and 
unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest thereon, under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $350,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                            Legal Activities


             Salaries and Expenses, General Legal Activities


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal 
Activities'', $1,648,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.


             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, United States 
Attorneys'', $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                     United States Marshals Service


                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $6,450,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                       National Security Division


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $1,736,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$118,260,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

[[Page 121 STAT. 114]]

                     Drug Enforcement Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $8,468,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

           Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $4,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                          Federal Prison System


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $17,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1201. Funds provided in this Act for the ``Department of 
Justice, United States Marshals Service, Salaries and Expenses'' shall 
be made available according to the language relating to such account in 
the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on 
H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-107).
    Sec. 1202. Funds provided in this Act for the ``Department of 
Justice, Legal Activities, Salaries and Expenses, General Legal 
Activities'', shall be made available according to the language relating 
to such account in the joint explanatory statement accompanying the 
conference report on H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-107).

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$8,510,270,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$692,127,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$1,386,871,000.

[[Page 121 STAT. 115]]

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$1,079,287,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$147,244,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$77,800,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$5,500,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$436,025,000.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $24,500,000.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$20,373,379,000.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$4,652,670,000, of which up to $120,293,000 shall be transferred to 
Coast Guard, ``Operating Expenses'', for reimbursement for activities 
which support activities requested by the Navy.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $1,146,594,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $6,650,881,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $2,714,487,000, of which--

[[Page 121 STAT. 116]]

            (1) not to exceed $25,000,000 may be used for the Combatant 
        Commander Initiative Fund, to be used in support of Operation 
        Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom; and
            (2) not to exceed $200,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended, may be used for payments to reimburse Pakistan, 
        Jordan, and other key cooperating nations, for logistical, 
        military, and other support provided to United States military 
        operations, notwithstanding any other provision of law: 
        Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  such payments 
        may be made in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with 
        the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and in consultation 
        with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, may 
        determine, in his discretion, based on documentation determined 
        by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
        support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive 
        upon the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 days 
        following notification to the appropriate congressional 
        committees: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  
        the Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly reports to the 
        congressional defense committees on the use of funds provided in 
        this paragraph.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $74,049,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $111,066,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $13,591,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $10,160,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $83,569,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $38,429,000.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', 
$5,906,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

[[Page 121 STAT. 117]]

                        Iraq Security Forces Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'', 
$3,842,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                            Iraq Freedom Fund


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Iraq Freedom Fund'', $355,600,000, to 
remain available for transfer until September 30, 2008: Provided, That 
up to $50,000,000 may be obligated and expended for purposes of the Task 
Force to Improve Business and Stability Operations in Iraq.

              Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
Defeat Fund'', $2,432,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2009.

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$619,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$111,473,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $3,404,315,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2009.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$681,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$9,859,137,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$1,090,287,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$163,813,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

[[Page 121 STAT. 118]]

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $159,833,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2009.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$618,709,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$989,389,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$2,106,468,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$94,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$1,957,160,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$721,190,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $100,006,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2008.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $298,722,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2008.

[[Page 121 STAT. 119]]

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $187,176,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $512,804,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$1,115,526,000.

                      National Defense Sealift Fund

    For an additional amount for ``National Defense Sealift Fund'', 
$5,000,000.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$1,123,147,000.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $254,665,000, to remain available until expended.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                Intelligence Community Management Account

    For an additional amount for ``Intelligence Community Management 
Account'', $71,726,000.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1301. Appropriations provided in this Act are available for 
obligation until September 30, 2007, unless otherwise provided herein.


                           (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 1302. Upon his determination that such action is necessary in 
the national interest, the Secretary of Defense may transfer between 
appropriations up to $3,500,000,000 of the funds made available to the 
Department of Defense (except for military construction) in this Act: 
Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification.>>  the Secretary shall notify the 
Congress promptly of each transfer made pursuant to the authority in 
this section: Provided further, That the authority provided in 


[[Page 121 STAT. 120]]

this section is in addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms and 
conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of the Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act, 2007 (Public Law 109-289; 120 Stat. 
1257), except for the fourth proviso: Provided further, That funds 
previously transferred to the ``Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Fund'' and the ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'' under the authority of 
section 8005 of Public Law 109-289 and transferred back to their source 
appropriations accounts shall not be taken into account for purposes of 
the limitation on the amount of funds that may be transferred under 
section 8005.
    Sec. 1303. Funds appropriated in this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in or pursuant to this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).
    Sec. 1304. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
finance programs or activities denied by Congress in fiscal years 2006 
or 2007 appropriations to the Department of Defense (except for military 
construction) or to initiate a procurement or research, development, 
test and evaluation new start program without prior written notification 
to the congressional defense committees.


                           (TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    Sec. 1305. During fiscal year 2007, the Secretary of Defense may 
transfer not to exceed $6,300,000 of the amounts in or credited to the 
Defense Cooperation Account, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2608, to such 
appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense as he shall 
determine for use consistent with the purposes for which such funds were 
contributed and accepted: Provided, That such amounts shall be available 
for the same time period as the appropriation to which transferred: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Secretary shall report to 
the Congress all transfers made pursuant to this authority.

    Sec. 1306. (a) Authority to Provide Support.--Of the amount 
appropriated by this Act under the heading, ``Drug Interdiction and 
Counter-Drug Activities, Defense'', not to exceed $60,000,000 may be 
used for support for counter-drug activities of the Governments of 
Afghanistan and Pakistan: Provided, That such support shall be in 
addition to support provided for the counter-drug activities of such 
Governments under any other provision of the law.
    (b) Types of Support.--
            (1) Except <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  as specified in 
        subsection (b)(2) of this section, the support that may be 
        provided under the authority in this section shall be limited to 
        the types of support specified in section 1033(c)(1) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public 
        Law 105-85, as amended by Public Laws 106-398, 108-136, and 109-
        364) and conditions on the provision of support as contained in 
        section 1033 shall apply for fiscal year 2007.
            (2) The Secretary of Defense may transfer vehicles, 
        aircraft, and detection, interception, monitoring and testing 
        equipment to said Governments for counter-drug activities.

    Sec. 1307. (a) From funds made available for operation and 
maintenance in this Act to the Department of Defense, not to

[[Page 121 STAT. 121]]

exceed $456,400,000 may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, to fund the Commanders' Emergency Response Program, for the purpose 
of enabling military commanders in Iraq and Afghanistan to respond to 
urgent humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within their 
areas of responsibility by carrying out programs that will immediately 
assist the Iraqi and Afghan people.
    (b) Quarterly Reports.--Not later than 15 days after the end of each 
fiscal year quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report regarding the source of funds 
and the allocation and use of funds during that quarter that were made 
available pursuant to the authority provided in this section or under 
any other provision of law for the purposes of the programs under 
subsection (a).
    Sec. 1308. Section 9010 of division A of Public Law 109-289 
is <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 1307.>>  amended by striking ``2007'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``2008''.

    Sec. 1309. During fiscal year 2007, supervision and administration 
costs associated with projects carried out with funds appropriated to 
``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' or ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'' in 
this Act may be obligated at the time a construction contract is 
awarded: Provided, That for the purpose of this section, supervision and 
administration costs include all in-house Government costs.
    Sec. 1310. Section 1005(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364) <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 2372.>>  is 
amended by striking ``$310,277,000'' and inserting ``$376,446,000''.

    Sec. 1311. Section 9007 of Public Law 109-289 <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 
1306.>>  is amended by striking ``20'' and inserting ``287''.

    Sec. 1312. From funds made available for the ``Iraq Security Forces 
Fund'' for fiscal year 2007, up to $155,500,000 may be used, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, to provide assistance, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of State, to the Government of Iraq to 
support the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of militias 
and illegal armed groups.


                           (transfer of funds)


    Sec. 1313. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$110,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Economic Support Fund'', 
Department of State, for use in programs in Pakistan from amounts 
appropriated by this Act as follows:
            ``Military Personnel, Army'', $70,000,000.
            ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $13,183,000.
            ``Defense Health Program'', $26,817,000.

    Sec. 1314. (a) Findings Regarding Progress in Iraq, the 
Establishment of Benchmarks to Measure That Progress, and Reports to 
Congress.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Over 145,000 American military personnel are currently 
        serving in Iraq, like thousands of others since March 2003, with 
        the bravery and professionalism consistent with the finest 
        traditions of the United States Armed Forces, and are deserving 
        of the strong support of all Americans.
            (2) Many American service personnel have lost their lives, 
        and many more have been wounded in Iraq; the American people 
        will always honor their sacrifice and honor their families.
            (3) The United States Army and Marine Corps, including their 
        Reserve components and National Guard organizations,

[[Page 121 STAT. 122]]

        together with components of the other branches of the military, 
        are performing their missions while under enormous strain from 
        multiple, extended deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. These 
        deployments, and those that will follow, will have a lasting 
        impact on future recruiting, retention, and readiness of our 
        Nation's all volunteer force.
            (4) Iraq is experiencing a deteriorating problem of 
        sectarian and intrasectarian violence based upon political 
        distrust and cultural differences among factions of the Sunni 
        and Shia populations.
            (5) Iraqis must reach political and economic settlements in 
        order to achieve reconciliation, for there is no military 
        solution. The failure of the Iraqis to reach such settlements to 
        support a truly unified government greatly contributes to the 
        increasing violence in Iraq.
            (6) The responsibility for Iraq's internal security and 
        halting sectarian violence rests with the sovereign Government 
        of Iraq.
            (7) In December 2006, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group issued 
        a valuable report, suggesting a comprehensive strategy that 
        includes new and enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in 
        Iraq and the region, and a change in the primary mission of U.S. 
        forces in Iraq, that will enable the United States to begin to 
        move its combat forces out of Iraq responsibly.
            (8) The President said on January 10, 2007, that ``I've made 
        it clear to the Prime Minister and Iraq's other leaders that 
        America's commitment is not open-ended'' so as to dispel the 
        contrary impression that exists.
            (9) It is essential that the sovereign Government of Iraq 
        set out measurable and achievable benchmarks and President Bush 
        said, on January 10, 2007, that ``America will change our 
        approach to help the Iraqi government as it works to meet these 
        benchmarks''.
            (10) As reported by Secretary of State Rice, Iraq's Policy 
        Committee on National Security agreed upon a set of political, 
        security, and economic benchmarks and an associated timeline in 
        September 2006 that were: (A) reaffirmed by Iraq's Presidency 
        Council on October 6, 2006; (B) referenced by the Iraq Study 
        Group; and (C) posted on the President of Iraq's Web site.
            (11) On April 21, 2007, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates 
        stated that ``our [American] commitment to Iraq is long-term, 
        but it is not a commitment to have our young men and women 
        patrolling Iraq's streets open-endedly'' and that ``progress in 
        reconciliation will be an important element of our evaluation''.
            (12) The President's January 10, 2007, address had three 
        components: political, military, and economic. Given that 
        significant time has passed since his statement, and recognizing 
        the overall situation is ever changing, Congress must have 
        timely reports to evaluate and execute its constitutional 
        oversight responsibilities.

    (b) Conditioning of Future United States Strategy in Iraq on the 
Iraqi Government's Record of Performance on Its Benchmarks.--
            (1) In general.--

[[Page 121 STAT. 123]]

                    (A) The United States strategy in Iraq, hereafter, 
                shall be conditioned on the Iraqi government meeting 
                benchmarks, as told to members of Congress by the 
                President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
                Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
                and reflected in the Iraqi Government's commitments to 
                the United States, and to the international community, 
                including:
                          (i) Forming a Constitutional Review Committee 
                      and then completing the constitutional review.
                          (ii) Enacting and implementing legislation on 
                      de-Baathification.
                          (iii) Enacting and implementing legislation to 
                      ensure the equitable distribution of hydrocarbon 
                      resources of the people of Iraq without regard to 
                      the sect or ethnicity of recipients, and enacting 
                      and implementing legislation to ensure that the 
                      energy resources of Iraq benefit Sunni Arabs, Shia 
                      Arabs, Kurds, and other Iraqi citizens in an 
                      equitable manner.
                          (iv) Enacting and implementing legislation on 
                      procedures to form semi-autonomous regions.
                          (v) Enacting and implementing legislation 
                      establishing an Independent High Electoral 
                      Commission, provincial elections law, provincial 
                      council authorities, and a date for provincial 
                      elections.
                          (vi) Enacting and implementing legislation 
                      addressing amnesty.
                          (vii) Enacting and implementing legislation 
                      establishing a strong militia disarmament program 
                      to ensure that such security forces are 
                      accountable only to the central government and 
                      loyal to the Constitution of Iraq.
                          (viii) Establishing supporting political, 
                      media, economic, and services committees in 
                      support of the Baghdad Security Plan.
                          (ix) Providing three trained and ready Iraqi 
                      brigades to support Baghdad operations.
                          (x) Providing Iraqi commanders with all 
                      authorities to execute this plan and to make 
                      tactical and operational decisions, in 
                      consultation with U.S commanders, without 
                      political intervention, to include the authority 
                      to pursue all extremists, including Sunni 
                      insurgents and Shiite militias.
                          (xi) Ensuring that the Iraqi Security Forces 
                      are providing even handed enforcement of the law.
                          (xii) Ensuring that, according to President 
                      Bush, Prime Minister Maliki said ``the Baghdad 
                      security plan will not provide a safe haven for 
                      any outlaws, regardless of [their] sectarian or 
                      political affiliation''.
                          (xiii) Reducing the level of sectarian 
                      violence in Iraq and eliminating militia control 
                      of local security.
                          (xiv) Establishing all of the planned joint 
                      security stations in neighborhoods across Baghdad.
                          (xv) Increasing the number of Iraqi security 
                      forces units capable of operating independently.
                          (xvi) Ensuring that the rights of minority 
                      political parties in the Iraqi legislature are 
                      protected.

[[Page 121 STAT. 124]]

                          (xvii) Allocating and spending $10 billion in 
                      Iraqi revenues for reconstruction projects, 
                      including delivery of essential services, on an 
                      equitable basis.
                          (xviii) Ensuring that Iraq's political 
                      authorities are not undermining or making false 
                      accusations against members of the Iraqi Security 
                      Forces.
                    (B) The <<NOTE: President.>>  President shall submit 
                reports to Congress on how the sovereign Government of 
                Iraq is, or is not, achieving progress towards 
                accomplishing the aforementioned benchmarks, and shall 
                advise the Congress on how that assessment requires, or 
                does not require, changes to the strategy announced on 
                January 10, 2007.
            (2) Reports required.-- <<NOTE: President.>> 
                    (A) The President shall submit an initial report, in 
                classified and unclassified format, to the Congress, not 
                later than July 15, 2007, assessing the status of each 
                of the specific benchmarks established above, and 
                declaring, in his judgment, whether satisfactory 
                progress toward meeting these benchmarks is, or is not, 
                being achieved.
                    (B) The President, having consulted with the 
                Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the 
                Commander, Multi-National Forces-Iraq, the United States 
                Ambassador to Iraq, and the Commander of U.S. Central 
                Command, will prepare the report and submit the report 
                to Congress.
                    (C) If the President's assessment of any of the 
                specific benchmarks established above is unsatisfactory, 
                the President shall include in that report a description 
                of such revisions to the political, economic, regional, 
                and military components of the strategy, as announced by 
                the President on January 10, 2007. In addition, the 
                President shall include in the report, the advisability 
                of implementing such aspects of the bipartisan Iraq 
                Study Group, as he deems appropriate.
                    (D) The President shall submit a second report to 
                the Congress, not later than September 15, 2007, 
                following the same procedures and criteria outlined 
                above.
                    (E) The <<NOTE: Waiver.>>  reporting requirement 
                detailed in section 1227 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 is waived from 
                the date of the enactment of this Act through the period 
                ending September 15, 2007.
            (3) Testimony before congress.--Prior to the submission of 
        the President's second report on September 15, 2007, and at a 
        time to be agreed upon by the leadership of the Congress and the 
        Administration, the United States Ambassador to Iraq and the 
        Commander, Multi-National Forces Iraq will be made available to 
        testify in open and closed sessions before the relevant 
        committees of the Congress.

    (c) Limitations on Availability of Funds.--
            (1) <<NOTE: President. Certification.>>  Limitation.--No 
        funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' and available for Iraq may be 
        obligated or expended unless and until the President of the 
        United States certifies in the report outlined in subsection 
        (b)(2)(A) and makes a further certification in the report 
        outlined in subsection (b)(2)(D) that Iraq is making progress on 
        each of the benchmarks set forth in subsection (b)(1)(A).

[[Page 121 STAT. 125]]

            (2) Waiver authority.--The <<NOTE: Certification.>>  
        President may waive the requirements of this section if he 
        submits to Congress a written certification setting forth a 
        detailed justification for the waiver, which shall include a 
        detailed report describing the actions being taken by the United 
        States to bring the Iraqi government into compliance with the 
        benchmarks set forth in subsection (b)(1)(A). The certification 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

    (d) <<NOTE: President.>>  Redeployment of U.S. Forces From Iraq.--
The President of the United States, in respecting the sovereign rights 
of the nation of Iraq, shall direct the orderly redeployment of elements 
of U.S. forces from Iraq, if the components of the Iraqi government, 
acting in strict accordance with their respective powers given by the 
Iraqi Constitution, reach a consensus as recited in a resolution, 
directing a redeployment of U.S. forces.

    (e) Independent Assessments.--
            (1) Assessment by the comptroller general.--
                    (A) Not later than September 1, 2007, the 
                Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
                Congress an independent report setting forth--
                          (i) the status of the achievement of the 
                      benchmarks specified in subsection (b)(1)(A); and
                          (ii) the Comptroller General's assessment of 
                      whether or not each such benchmark has been met.
            (2) Assessment of the capabilities of iraqi security 
        forces.--
                    (A) In general.--There is hereby authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Department of Defense, $750,000, 
                that the Department, in turn, will commission an 
                independent, private sector entity, which operates as a 
                501(c)(3), with recognized credentials and expertise in 
                military affairs, to prepare an independent report 
                assessing the following:
                          (i) The readiness of the Iraqi Security Forces 
                      (ISF) to assume responsibility for maintaining the 
                      territorial integrity of Iraq, denying 
                      international terrorists a safe haven, and 
                      bringing greater security to Iraq's 18 provinces 
                      in the next 12 to 18 months, and bringing an end 
                      to sectarian violence to achieve national 
                      reconciliation.
                          (ii) The training, equipping, command, control 
                      and intelligence capabilities, and logistics 
                      capacity of the ISF.
                          (iii) The likelihood that, given the ISF's 
                      record of preparedness to date, following years of 
                      training and equipping by U.S. forces, the 
                      continued support of U.S. troops will contribute 
                      to the readiness of the ISF to fulfill the 
                      missions outlined in clause (i).
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                enactment of this Act, the designated private sector 
                entity shall provide an unclassified report, with a 
                classified annex, containing its findings, to the House 
                and Senate Committees on Armed Services, Appropriations, 
                Foreign Relations/International Relations, and 
                Intelligence.

[[Page 121 STAT. 126]]

                                CHAPTER 4

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                National Nuclear Security Administration


                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation


    For an additional amount for ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'', 
$63,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 5

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                       Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$1,255,890,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects not otherwise authorized by law: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided under this heading, not to exceed 
$173,700,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  
That of the funds made available under this heading, $369,690,000 shall 
not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense submits a 
detailed report explaining how military road construction is coordinated 
with NATO and coalition nations: Provided further, <<NOTE: Stationing 
plan.>>  That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$401,700,000 shall not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
Defense submits a detailed stationing plan to support Army end-strength 
growth to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Certification.>>  That of the funds provided under this 
heading, $274,800,000 shall not be obligated or expended until the 
Secretary of Defense certifies that none of the funds are to be used for 
the purpose of providing facilities for the permanent basing of United 
States military personnel in Iraq.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $370,990,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such 
funds may be obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and 
military construction projects not otherwise authorized by law: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading, not to exceed 
$49,600,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services: Provided further, <<NOTE: Stationing 
plan.>>  That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$324,270,000 shall not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
Defense submits a detailed stationing plan to support Marine Corps end-
strength growth to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.

[[Page 121 STAT. 127]]

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$43,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be 
obligated and expended to carry out planning and design and military 
construction projects not otherwise authorized by law: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided under this heading, not to exceed $3,000,000 
shall be available for study, planning, design, and architect and 
engineer services.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1501. (a) Funds provided in this Act for the following accounts 
shall be made available for programs under the conditions contained in 
the language of the joint explanatory statement of managers accompanying 
the conference report on H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-
107):
            ``Military Construction, Army''.
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps''.
            ``Military Construction, Air Force''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Defense shall submit all 
reports requested in House Report 110-60 and Senate Report 110-37 to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                                CHAPTER 6

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs


                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS


                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$836,555,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, of which 
$64,655,000 for World Wide Security Upgrades is available until 
expended: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
not more than $20,000,000 shall be made available for public diplomacy 
programs: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That prior to the 
obligation of funds pursuant to the previous proviso, the Secretary of 
State shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
describing a comprehensive public diplomacy strategy, with goals and 
expected results, for fiscal years 2007 and 2008: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>>  That 20 percent of the 
amount available for Iraq operations shall not be obligated until the 
Committees on Appropriations receive and approve a detailed plan for 
expenditure, prepared by the Secretary of State, and submitted within 60 
days after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That of 
the amount made available under this heading for Iraq, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds in the 
``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' appropriations 
account, to be available only for terrorism rewards.

[[Page 121 STAT. 128]]

                     OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL


                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$35,000,000, to remain available until December 31, 2008: Provided, That 
such amount shall be transferred to the Special Inspector General for 
Iraq Reconstruction for reconstruction oversight.


               Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs


    For an additional amount for ``Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Programs'', $20,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       International Organizations


         Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities


    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'', $283,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Broadcasting Board of Governors


                  International Broadcasting Operations


    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'' for activities related to broadcasting to the Middle East, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


           United States Agency for International Development


                 Child Survival and Health Programs Fund


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Child Survival and Health Programs 
Fund'', $161,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: 
Provided, <<NOTE: President. Reports. Avian influenza.>>  That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the President determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the human-to-human 
transmission of the avian influenza virus is efficient and sustained, 
and is spreading internationally, funds made available under the heading 
``Millennium Challenge Corporation'' and ``Global HIV/AIDS Initiative'' 
in prior Acts making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs may be transferred to, and merged with, 
funds made available under this heading to combat avian influenza: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That funds made available 
pursuant to the authority of the previous proviso shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 121 STAT. 129]]

              International Disaster and Famine Assistance


    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster and Famine 
Assistance'', $105,000,000, to remain available until expended.


    Operating Expenses of the United States Agency for International 
                               Development


    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses of the United 
States Agency for International Development'', $5,700,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2008.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance


                          Economic Support Fund


    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$2,502,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $57,400,000 shall be 
made available to nongovernmental organizations in Iraq for economic and 
social development programs and activities in areas of conflict: 
Provided further, That the responsibility for policy decisions and 
justifications for the use of funds appropriated by the previous proviso 
shall be the responsibility of the United States Chief of Mission in 
Iraq: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading in this Act or in prior Acts making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing, and related programs may be made available 
for the Political Participation Fund and the National Institutions Fund: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' in Public Law 109-234 for Iraq to promote 
democracy, rule of law and reconciliation, $2,000,000 should be made 
available for the United States Institute of Peace for programs and 
activities in Afghanistan to remain available until September 30, 2008.


           Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States


    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the 
Baltic States'', $214,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008, for assistance for Kosovo.

                           Department of State


                             Democracy Fund


    For an additional amount for ``Democracy Fund'', $255,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $190,000,000 shall be 
made available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund of the Bureau of 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, and not less 
than $60,000,000 shall be made available for the United States Agency 
for International Development, for democracy, human rights and rule of 
law programs in Iraq: Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  
That not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
describing a comprehensive, 


[[Page 121 STAT. 130]]

long-term strategy, with goals and expected results, for strengthening 
and advancing democracy in Iraq.


           International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement


    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $210,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008.


                    Migration and Refugee Assistance


    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$71,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, of which not 
less than $5,000,000 shall be made available to rescue Iraqi scholars.


      United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund


    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.


     Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs


    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $27,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

                       Department of the Treasury


               International Affairs Technical Assistance


    For an additional amount for ``International Affairs Technical 
Assistance'', $2,750,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


                   Foreign Military Financing Program


    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$220,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.


                         Peacekeeping Operations


    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$190,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act and every 30 days thereafter until September 30, 
2008, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the obligation and expenditure of funds made 
available under this heading in this Act and in prior Acts making 
appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs.

[[Page 121 STAT. 131]]

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER


                         authorization of funds


    Sec. 1601. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)).

                  TITLE II--HURRICANE KATRINA RECOVERY

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency


                             DISASTER RELIEF


    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'', $3,400,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

   TITLE III--ADDITIONAL DEFENSE, INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, AND HOMELAND 
                           SECURITY PROVISIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      Foreign Agricultural Service


                     Public Law 480 Title II Grants


    For an additional amount for ``Public Law 480 Title II Grants'', 
during the current fiscal year, not otherwise recoverable, and 
unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest thereon, under the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3101. There is hereby appropriated $10,000,000 to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for the release of eligible commodities 
under section 302(f)(2)(A) of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust Act (7 
U.S.C. 1736f-1): Provided, That any such funds made available to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation shall only be used to 
replenish the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust.

[[Page 121 STAT. 132]]

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$139,740,000, of which $129,740,000 is to remain available until 
September 30, 2008 and $10,000,000 is to remain available until expended 
to implement corrective actions in response to the findings and 
recommendations in the Department of Justice Office of Inspector General 
report entitled, ``A Review of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Use 
of National Security Letters'', of which $500,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with ``Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector 
General''.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration


                          salaries and expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $3,698,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3201. Funds provided in this Act for the ``Department of 
Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries and Expenses'', shall 
be made available according to the language relating to such account in 
the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on 
H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-107).

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$343,080,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$408,283,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$108,956,000.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$139,300,000.

[[Page 121 STAT. 133]]

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$8,223,000.

                     Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$5,660,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$6,073,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$109,261,000.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $19,533,000.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$24,000,000.

                    Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund


                      (including transfer of funds)


    In addition to amounts provided in this or any other Act, for 
training, operations, repair of equipment, purchases of equipment, and 
other expenses related to improving the readiness of non-deployed United 
States military forces, $1,615,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2009; of which $1,000,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``National Guard and Reserve Equipment'' for the purchase of equipment 
for the Army National Guard; and of which $615,000,000 shall be 
transferred by the Secretary of Defense only to appropriations for 
military personnel, operation and maintenance, procurement, and defense 
working capital funds to accomplish the purposes provided herein: 
Provided, That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>>  That the Secretary of 
Defense shall, not fewer than 30 days prior to making transfers under 
this authority, notify the congressional defense committees in writing 
of the details of any such transfers made pursuant to this authority: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That funds shall be transferred 
to the appropriation accounts not later than 120 days after the 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred 


[[Page 121 STAT. 134]]

from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided 
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                               PROCUREMENT

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$1,217,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That the amount provided under this heading shall be available only for 
the purchase of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ''Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$130,040,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That the amount provided under this heading shall be available only for 
the purchase of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$1,263,360,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That the amount provided under this heading shall be available only for 
the purchase of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$139,040,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That the amount provided under this heading shall be available only for 
the purchase of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$258,860,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That the amount provided under this heading shall be available only for 
the purchase of mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$1,878,706,000; of which $1,429,006,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance, including $600,000,000 which shall be available for the 
treatment of traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder 
and remain available until September 30, 2008; of which $118,000,000 
shall be for procurement, to remain available until September 30, 2009; 
and of which $331,700,000 shall be for research, development, test and 
evaluation, to remain available

[[Page 121 STAT. 135]]

until September 30, 2008: Provided, That if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that funds made available in this paragraph for the treatment 
of traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder are in 
excess of the requirements of the Department of Defense, the Secretary 
may transfer amounts in excess of that requirement to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to be available only for the same purpose.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3301. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or expended by the 
United States Government for a purpose as follows:
            (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Iraq.
            (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
        of Iraq.

    Sec. 3302. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations 
promulgated to implement the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at 
New York on December 10, 1984)--
            (1) section 2340A of title 18, United States Code;
            (2) section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 112 
        Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations prescribed 
        thereto, including regulations under part 208 of title 8, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 22, Code of Federal 
        Regulations; and
            (3) sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
        Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in 
        the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public Law 
        109-148).

    Sec. 3303. (a) Report by Secretary of Defense.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that contains individual transition readiness assessments by unit of 
Iraq and Afghan security forces. The Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees updates of the report required 
by this subsection every 90 days after the date of the submission of the 
report until October 1, 2008. The report and updates of the report 
required by this subsection shall be submitted in classified form.
    (b) Report by OMB.--
            (1) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Defense; the Commander, 
        Multi-National Security Transition Command--Iraq; and the 
        Commander, Combined Security Transition Command--Afghanistan, 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees not later 
        than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
        every 90 days thereafter a report on the proposed use of all 
        funds under each of the headings ``Iraq Security Forces Fund'' 
        and ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' on a project-by-project 
        basis, for which the obligation of funds is anticipated during 
        the three-month period from such date,

[[Page 121 STAT. 136]]

        including estimates by the commanders referred to in this 
        paragraph of the costs required to complete each such project.
            (2) The report required by this subsection shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) The use of all funds on a project-by-project 
                basis for which funds appropriated under the headings 
                referred to in paragraph (1) were obligated prior to the 
                submission of the report, including estimates by the 
                commanders referred to in paragraph (1) of the costs to 
                complete each project.
                    (B) The use of all funds on a project-by-project 
                basis for which funds were appropriated under the 
                headings referred to in paragraph (1) in prior 
                appropriations Acts, or for which funds were made 
                available by transfer, reprogramming, or allocation from 
                other headings in prior appropriations Acts, including 
                estimates by the commanders referred to in paragraph (1) 
                of the costs to complete each project.
                    (C) An estimated total cost to train and equip the 
                Iraq and Afghan security forces, disaggregated by major 
                program and sub-elements by force, arrayed by fiscal 
                year.

    (c) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of any proposed new projects or 
transfers of funds between sub-activity groups in excess of $15,000,000 
using funds appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Iraq Security 
Forces Fund'' and ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund''.
    Sec. 3304. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended to provide award fees 
to any defense contractor contrary to the provisions of section 814 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 
109-364).
    Sec. 3305. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Not more than 85 percent of the funds 
appropriated to the Department of Defense in this Act for operation and 
maintenance shall be available for obligation unless and until the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a 
report detailing the use of Department of Defense funded service 
contracts conducted in the theater of operations in support of United 
States military and reconstruction activities in Iraq and Afghanistan: 
Provided, That <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  the report shall provide detailed 
information specifying the number of contracts and contract costs used 
to provide services in fiscal year 2006, with sub-allocations by major 
service categories: Provided further, That the report also shall include 
estimates of the number of contracts to be executed in fiscal year 2007: 
Provided further, That the report shall include the number of contractor 
personnel in Iraq and Afghanistan funded by the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That the report shall be 
submitted to the congressional defense committees not later than August 
1, 2007.

    Sec. 3306. Section 1477 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``A death gratuity'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subsection (d), a death gratuity'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e) and, 
        in such subsection, by striking ``If an eligible survivor dies 
        before he'' and inserting ``If a person entitled to all or a 
        portion

[[Page 121 STAT. 137]]

        of a death gratuity under subsection (a) or (d) dies before the 
        person''; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):

    ``(d) During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this subsection and ending on September 30, 2007, a person covered by 
section 1475 or 1476 of this title may designate another person to 
receive not more than 50 percent of the amount payable under section 
1478 of this title. The designation shall indicate the percentage of the 
amount, to be specified only in 10 percent increments up to the maximum 
of 50 percent, that the designated person may receive. The balance of 
the amount of the death gratuity shall be paid to or for the living 
survivors of the person concerned in accordance with paragraphs (1) 
through (5) of subsection (a).''.
    Sec. 3307. <<NOTE: 10 USC 1073 note.>>  (a) Inspection of Military 
Medical Treatment Facilities, Military Quarters Housing Medical Hold 
Personnel, and Military Quarters Housing Medical Holdover Personnel.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 180 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
        thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall inspect each facility 
        of the Department of Defense as follows:
                    (A) Each military medical treatment facility.
                    (B) Each military quarters housing medical hold 
                personnel.
                    (C) Each military quarters housing medical holdover 
                personnel.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of an inspection under this 
        subsection is to ensure that the facility or quarters concerned 
        meets acceptable standards for the maintenance and operation of 
        medical facilities, quarters housing medical hold personnel, or 
        quarters housing medical holdover personnel, as applicable.

    (b) Acceptable Standards.--For purposes of this section, acceptable 
standards for the operation and maintenance of military medical 
treatment facilities, military quarters housing medical hold personnel, 
or military quarters housing medical holdover personnel are each of the 
following:
            (1) Generally accepted standards for the accreditation of 
        medical facilities, or for facilities used to quarter 
        individuals with medical conditions that may require medical 
        supervision, as applicable, in the United States.
            (2) Where appropriate, standards under the Americans with 
        Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.).

    (c) Additional Inspections on Identified Deficiencies.--
            (1) In general.--In the event a deficiency is identified 
        pursuant to subsection (a) at a facility or quarters described 
        in paragraph (1) of that subsection--
                    (A) the commander of such facility or quarters, as 
                applicable, shall submit to the Secretary a detailed 
                plan to correct the deficiency; and
                    (B) the Secretary shall reinspect such facility or 
                quarters, as applicable, not less often than once every 
                180 days until the deficiency is corrected.
            (2) Construction with other inspections.--An inspection of a 
        facility or quarters under this subsection is in addition to any 
        inspection of such facility or quarters under subsection (a).

[[Page 121 STAT. 138]]

    (d) Reports on Inspections.--A complete copy of the report on each 
inspection conducted under subsections (a) and (c) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form to the applicable military medical command and to the 
congressional defense committees.
    (e) Report on Standards.--In the event no standards for the 
maintenance and operation of military medical treatment facilities, 
military quarters housing medical hold personnel, or military quarters 
housing medical holdover personnel exist as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act, or such standards as do exist do not meet acceptable 
standards for the maintenance and operation of such facilities or 
quarters, as the case may be, the Secretary shall, not later than 30 
days after that date, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth the plan of the Secretary to ensure--
            (1) the adoption by the Department of standards for the 
        maintenance and operation of military medical facilities, 
        military quarters housing medical hold personnel, or military 
        quarters housing medical holdover personnel, as applicable, that 
        meet--
                    (A) acceptable standards for the maintenance and 
                operation of such facilities or quarters, as the case 
                may be; and
                    (B) where appropriate, standards under the Americans 
                with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
            (2) the comprehensive implementation of the standards 
        adopted under paragraph (1) at the earliest date practicable.

    Sec. 3308. (a) Award of Medal of Honor to Woodrow W. Keeble for 
Valor During Korean War.--Notwithstanding any applicable time limitation 
under section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the award of certain medals to individuals 
who served in the Armed Forces, the President may award to Woodrow W. 
Keeble the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of that title for the acts 
of valor described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor.--The acts of valor referred to in subsection (a) 
are the acts of Woodrow W. Keeble, then-acting platoon leader, carried 
out on October 20, 1951, during the Korean War.


                           (TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    Sec. 3309. Of the amount appropriated under the heading ``Other 
Procurement, Army'', in title III of division A of Public Law 109-148, 
$6,250,000 shall be transferred to ``Military Construction, Army''.
    Sec. 3310. The Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, acting through the Office of Economic Adjustment or 
the Office of Dependents Education of the Department of Defense, shall 
use not less than $10,000,000 of funds made available in this Act under 
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' to make grants 
and supplement other Federal funds to provide special assistance to 
local education agencies.
    Sec. 3311. Congress finds that United States military units should 
not enter into combat unless they are fully capable of performing their 
assigned mission. Congress further finds that this is the policy of the 
Department of Defense. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  The Secretary of Defense 
shall notify Congress of any changes to this policy.

[[Page 121 STAT. 139]]

                                CHAPTER 4

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                National Nuclear Security Administration


                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation


    For an additional amount for ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'', 
$72,000,000 is provided for the International Nuclear Materials 
Protection and Cooperation Program, to remain available until expended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER


                           (TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    Sec. 3401. The Administrator of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration is authorized to transfer up to $1,000,000 from Defense 
Nuclear Nonproliferation to the Office of the Administrator during 
fiscal year 2007 supporting nuclear nonproliferation activities.

                                CHAPTER 5

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                         Analysis and Operations

    For an additional amount for ``Analysis and Operations'', 
$8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, to be used for 
support of the State and Local Fusion Center program: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date. Reports. 6 USC 481 note.>>  That 
starting July 1, 2007, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
quarterly reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives detailing the information required in House 
Report 110-107.

               United States Customs and Border Protection


                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES


                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $75,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008, to support hiring not less 
than 400 additional United States Customs and Border Protection 
Officers, as well as additional intelligence analysts, trade 
specialists, and support staff to target and screen U.S.-bound cargo on 
the Northern Border, at overseas locations, and at the National 
Targeting Center; to support hiring additional staffing required for 
Northern Border Air and Marine operations; to implement Security and 
Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-347) 
requirements; to advance the goals of the Secure Freight Initiative to 
improve significantly the ability of United States Customs and Border 
Protection to target and analyze U.S.-bound cargo containers; to expand 
overseas screening and physical inspection capacity for U.S.-bound 
cargo; to procure

[[Page 121 STAT. 140]]

and integrate non-intrusive inspection equipment into inspection and 
radiation detection operations; and to improve supply chain security, to 
include enhanced analytic and targeting systems using data collected via 
commercial and government technologies and databases: Provided, That up 
to $3,000,000 shall be transferred to Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center ``Salaries and Expenses'', for basic training costs associated 
with the additional personnel funded under this heading: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>>  That the Secretary shall 
submit an expenditure plan for the use of these funds to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives no 
later than 30 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That the Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives immediately if United States Customs and Border 
Protection does not expect to achieve its plan of having at least 1,158 
Border Patrol agents permanently deployed to the Northern Border by the 
end of fiscal year 2007, and explain in detail the reasons for any 
shortfall.


  Air and Marine Interdiction, Operations, Maintenance, and Procurement


    For an additional amount for ``Air and Marine Interdiction, 
Operations, Maintenance, and Procurement'', for air and marine 
operations on the Northern Border, including the final Northern Border 
air wing, $75,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, to 
accelerate planned deployment of Northern Border Air and Marine 
operations, including establishment of the final Northern Border 
airwing, procurement of assets such as fixed wing aircraft, helicopters, 
unmanned aerial systems, marine and riverine vessels, and other 
equipment, relocation of aircraft, site acquisition, and the design and 
building of facilities: Provided, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>>  
That the Secretary shall submit an expenditure plan for the use of these 
funds to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives no later than 30 days after enactment of this Act.

            United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $6,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008; of which $5,000,000 shall 
be for the creation of a security advisory opinion unit within the Visa 
Security Program; and of which $1,000,000 shall be for the Human 
Smuggling and Trafficking Center.

                 Transportation Security Administration


                            Aviation Security


    For an additional amount for ``Aviation Security'', $390,000,000; of 
which $285,000,000 shall be for procurement and installation of checked 
baggage explosives detection systems, to remain available until 
expended; of which $25,000,000 shall be for checkpoint explosives 
detection equipment and pilot screening technologies, to remain 
available until expended; and of which $80,000,000 shall be for air 
cargo security, to remain available until September 30, 2009: Provided, 
That of the air cargo funding made available under

[[Page 121 STAT. 141]]

this heading, the Transportation Security Administration shall hire no 
fewer than 150 additional air cargo inspectors to establish a more 
robust enforcement and compliance program; complete air cargo 
vulnerability assessments for all Category X airports; expand the 
National Explosives Detection Canine Program by no fewer than 170 
additional canine teams, including the use of agency led teams; pursue 
canine screening methods utilized internationally that focus on air 
samples; and procure and install explosive detection systems, explosive 
trace machines, and other technologies to screen air cargo: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That no later than 90 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
provide the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives an expenditure plan detailing how the Transportation 
Security Administration will utilize funding provided under this 
heading.


                          Federal Air Marshals


    For an additional amount for ``Federal Air Marshals'', $5,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  no later than 30 days after enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on how these additional funds will be allocated.

                    National Protection and Programs


           Infrastructure Protection and Information Security


    For an additional amount for ``Infrastructure Protection and 
Information Security'', $24,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2008; of which $12,000,000 shall be for development of State and 
local interoperability plans as discussed in House Report 110-107; and 
of which $12,000,000 shall be for implementation of chemical facility 
security regulations: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  
That within 30 days of the date of enactment of this Act the Secretary 
of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives detailed expenditure plans 
for execution of these funds: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  within 30 days of the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the computer forensics training center 
detailing the information required in House Report 110-107.

                        Office of Health Affairs

    For expenses for the ``Office of Health Affairs'', $8,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, $5,500,000 is for nuclear event 
public health assessment and planning: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  That the Office of Health Affairs shall 
conduct a nuclear event public health assessment as described in House 
Report 110-107: Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading may be obligated until the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives receive a 
plan for expenditure.

[[Page 121 STAT. 142]]

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency


                      Management and Administration


    For expenses for management and administration of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (``FEMA''), $14,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2008: Provided, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be for financial and information 
systems, $2,500,000 shall be for interstate mutual aid agreements, 
$2,500,000 shall be for FEMA Regional Office communication equipment, 
$2,500,000 shall be for FEMA strike teams, and $500,000 shall be for the 
Law Enforcement Liaison Office, the Disability Coordinator and the 
National Advisory Council: Provided further, That none of such funds 
made available under this heading may be obligated until the Committees 
on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives receive 
and approve a plan for expenditure: Provided further, That unobligated 
amounts in the ``Administrative and Regional Operations'' and 
``Readiness, Mitigation, Response, and Recovery'' accounts shall be 
transferred to ``Management and Administration'' and may be used for any 
purpose authorized for such amounts and subject to limitation on the use 
of such amounts.


                        State and Local Programs


    For an additional amount for ``State and Local Programs'', 
$247,000,000; of which $110,000,000 shall be for port security grants 
pursuant to section 70107(l) of title 46, United States Code to be 
awarded by September 30, 2007, to tier 1, 2, 3, and 4 ports; of which 
$100,000,000 shall be for intercity rail passenger transportation, 
freight rail, and transit security grants to be awarded by September 30, 
2007; of which $35,000,000 shall be for regional grants and regional 
technical assistance to tier one Urban Area Security Initiative cities 
and other participating governments for the purpose of developing all-
hazard regional catastrophic event plans and preparedness, as described 
in House Report 110-107; and of which $2,000,000 shall be for technical 
assistance for operation and maintenance training on detection and 
response equipment that must be competitively awarded: Provided, That 
none of the funds made available under this heading may be obligated for 
such regional grants and regional technical assistance until the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives receive and approve a plan for expenditure: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Expenditure plan. Deadline.>>  That the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency shall provide the regional grants and 
regional technical assistance expenditure plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives on or 
before August 1, 2007: Provided further, That funds for such regional 
grants and regional technical assistance shall remain available until 
September 30, 2008.


                 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE GRANTS


    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Management Performance 
Grants'', $50,000,000.

[[Page 121 STAT. 143]]

           United States Citizenship and Immigration Services

    For an additional amount for expenses of ``United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services'' to address backlogs of security checks 
associated with pending applications and petitions, $8,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading shall be available for 
obligation until the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
with the United States Attorney General, submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives a plan to 
eliminate the backlog of security checks that establishes information 
sharing protocols to ensure United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services has the information it needs to carry out its mission.

                         Science and Technology


           Research, Development, Acquisition, and Operations


    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Acquisition, 
and Operations'' for air cargo security research, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    Domestic Nuclear Detection Office


                  Research, Development, and Operations


    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, and 
Operations'' for non-container, rail, aviation and intermodal radiation 
detection activities, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That $5,000,000 is to enhance detection links between seaports 
and railroads as authorized in section 121(i) of the Security and 
Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-347); 
$8,000,000 is to accelerate development and deployment of detection 
systems at international rail border crossings; and $22,000,000 is for 
development and deployment of a variety of screening technologies at 
aviation facilities.


                           SYSTEMS ACQUISITION


    For an additional amount for ``Systems Acquisition'', $100,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Certification. Reports.>>  That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be obligated for full scale 
procurement of Advanced Spectroscopic Portal Monitors until the 
Secretary of Homeland Security has certified through a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives that a significant increase in operational effectiveness 
will be achieved.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3501. None of the funds provided in this Act, or Public Law 
109-295, shall be available to carry out section 872 of Public Law 107-
296.
    Sec. 3502. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall require that all contracts of the Department of Homeland Security 
that provide award fees link such fees to successful acquisition 
outcomes (which outcomes shall be specified in terms of cost, schedule, 
and performance).

[[Page 121 STAT. 144]]

                                CHAPTER 6

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $6,437,000, 
as follows:

                         Allowances and Expenses

    For an additional amount for allowances and expenses as authorized 
by House resolution or law, $6,437,000 for business continuity and 
disaster recovery, to remain available until expended.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' of the 
Government Accountability Office, $374,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

                                CHAPTER 7

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

             Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
2005, established by section 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $3,136,802,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Spending plan.>>  
That within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit a detailed spending plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3701. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds in this or any other Act may be used to close Walter Reed Army 
Medical Center until equivalent medical facilities at the Walter Reed 
National Military Medical Center at Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, 
Maryland, and/or the Fort Belvoir, Virginia, Community Hospital have 
been constructed and equipped: Provided, That to ensure that the quality 
of care provided by the Military Health System is not diminished during 
this transition, the Walter Reed Army Medical Center shall be adequately 
funded, to include necessary renovation and maintenance of existing 
facilities, to maintain the maximum level of inpatient and outpatient 
services.
    Sec. 3702. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reorganization and relocation plan.>>  
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds in this or 
any other Act shall be used to reorganize or relocate the functions of 
the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) until the Secretary of 
Defense has submitted, not later than December 31, 2007, a detailed plan 
and timetable for the 


[[Page 121 STAT. 145]]

proposed reorganization and relocation to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
Representatives. The plan shall take into consideration the 
recommendations of a study being prepared by the Government 
Accountability Office (GAO), provided that such study is available not 
later than 45 days before the date specified in this section, on the 
impact of dispersing selected functions of AFIP among several locations, 
and the possibility of consolidating those functions at one location. 
The plan shall include an analysis of the options for the location and 
operation of the Program Management Office for second opinion consults 
that are consistent with the recommendations of the Base Realignment and 
Closure Commission, together with the rationale for the option selected 
by the Secretary.
    Sec. 3703. <<NOTE: Land transfer.>>  The Secretary of the Navy 
shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, transfer to the 
Secretary of the Air Force, at no cost, all lands, easements, Air 
Installation Compatible Use Zones, and facilities at NASJRB Willow Grove 
designated for operation as a Joint Interagency Installation for use by 
the Pennsylvania National Guard and other Department of Defense 
components, government agencies, and associated users to perform 
national defense, homeland security, and emergency preparedness 
missions.

                                CHAPTER 8

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs


                    DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR PROGRAMS


                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$34,103,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008, of which 
$31,845,000 for World Wide Security Upgrades is available until 
expended: Provided, That of the amount available under this heading, 
$258,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds available in 
fiscal year 2007 for expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom: Provided further, That within 15 days 
of enactment of this Act, the Office of Management and Budget shall 
apportion $15,000,000 from amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by chapter 8 of title II of division B of Public Law 109-148 
under the heading ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' 
to reimburse expenditures from that account in facilitating the 
evacuation of persons from Lebanon between July 16, 2006, and the date 
of enactment of this Act.


                     OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL


    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$1,500,000, to remain available until December 31, 2008.

[[Page 121 STAT. 146]]

                       International Organizations


              Contributions to International Organizations


    For an additional amount for ``Contributions to International 
Organizations'', $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


           United States Agency for International Development


              International Disaster and Famine Assistance


    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster and Famine 
Assistance'', $60,000,000, to remain available until expended.


    OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL 
                               DEVELOPMENT


    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses of the United 
States Agency for International Development'', $3,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2008.


    OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL 
                 DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL


    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses of the United 
States Agency for International Development Office of Inspector 
General'', $3,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance


                          Economic Support Fund


    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$122,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                           Department of State


                             DEMOCRACY FUND


    For an additional amount for ``Democracy Fund'', $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2008.


           INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT


                     (INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $42,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008.
    Of the amounts made available for procurement of a maritime patrol 
aircraft for the Colombian Navy under this heading in Public Law 109-
234, $13,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 121 STAT. 147]]

                    Migration and Refugee Assistance


    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$59,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.


      United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund


    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.


     Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs


    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $30,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


                   Foreign Military Financing Program


    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
$45,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.


                         Peacekeeping Operations


    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Liberia.>>  funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
made available, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, for assistance for Liberia for security sector reform.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER


                    EXTENSION OF OVERSIGHT AUTHORITY


    Sec. 3801. Section 3001(o)(1)(B) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense and for the Reconstruction of Iraq and 
Afghanistan, 2004 (Public Law 108-106; 117 Stat. 1238; 5 U.S.C. App., 
note to section 8G of Public Law 95-452), as amended by section 1054(b) 
of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2397) and section 2 of the Iraq 
Reconstruction Accountability Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-
440), <<NOTE: 5 USC app. 8G note.>>  is amended by inserting ``or fiscal 
year 2007'' after ``fiscal year 2006''.


                                 lebanon


    Sec. 3802. (a) Limitation on Economic Support Fund Assistance for 
Lebanon.--None of the funds made available in this Act under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' for cash transfer assistance for the 
Government of Lebanon may be made available for obligation until the 
Secretary of State reports to the Committees on Appropriations on 
Lebanon's economic reform plan and on the specific conditions and 
verifiable benchmarks that have been agreed

[[Page 121 STAT. 148]]

upon by the United States and the Government of Lebanon pursuant to the 
Memorandum of Understanding on cash transfer assistance for Lebanon.
    (b) Limitation on Foreign Military Financing Program and 
International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement Assistance for 
Lebanon.--None of the funds made available in this Act under the heading 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'' or ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'' for military or police assistance to 
Lebanon may be made available for obligation until the Secretary of 
State submits to the Committees on Appropriations a report on procedures 
established to determine eligibility of members and units of the armed 
forces and police forces of Lebanon to participate in United States 
training and assistance programs and on the end use monitoring of all 
equipment provided under such programs to the Lebanese armed forces and 
police forces.
    (c) Certification Required.--Prior to the initial obligation of 
funds made available in this Act for assistance for Lebanon under the 
headings ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' and ``Nonproliferation, 
Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', the Secretary of State 
shall certify to the Committees on Appropriations that all practicable 
efforts have been made to ensure that such assistance is not provided to 
or through any individual, or private or government entity, that 
advocates, plans, sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist 
activity.
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations a report on the Government of Lebanon's 
actions to implement section 14 of United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1701 (August 11, 2006).
    (e) Special Authority.--This section shall be effective 
notwithstanding section 534(a) of Public Law 109-102, which is made 
applicable to funds appropriated for fiscal year 2007 by the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as 
amended by Public Law 110-5).


                           DEBT RESTRUCTURING


    Sec. 3803. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 for ``Bilateral 
Economic Assistance--Department of the Treasury--Debt Restructuring'' 
may be used to assist Liberia in retiring its debt arrearages to the 
International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, and the African Development Bank.


                    government accountability office


    Sec. 3804. To facilitate effective oversight of programs and 
activities in Iraq by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the 
Department of State shall provide GAO staff members the country 
clearances, life support, and logistical and security support necessary 
for GAO personnel to establish a presence in Iraq for periods of not 
less than 45 days.


                     HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY FUND


    Sec. 3805. The Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human 
Rights, and Labor shall be responsible for all policy,

[[Page 121 STAT. 149]]

funding, and programming decisions regarding funds made available under 
this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing and related programs for the Human Rights and Democracy 
Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.


           INSPECTOR GENERAL OVERSIGHT OF IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN


    Sec. 3806. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  (a) In General.--Subject to 
paragraph (2), the Inspector General of the Department of State and the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors (referred to in this section as the 
``Inspector General'') may use personal services contracts to engage 
citizens of the United States to facilitate and support the Office of 
the Inspector General's oversight of programs and operations related to 
Iraq and Afghanistan. Individuals engaged by contract to perform such 
services shall not, by virtue of such contract, be considered to be 
employees of the United States Government for purposes of any law 
administered by the Office of Personnel Management. The Secretary of 
State may determine the applicability to such individuals of any law 
administered by the Secretary concerning the performance of such 
services by such individuals.

    (b) Conditions.--The authority under paragraph (1) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) The Inspector General determines that existing personnel 
        resources are insufficient.
            (2) The contract length for a personal services contractor, 
        including options, may not exceed 1 year, unless the Inspector 
        General makes a finding that exceptional circumstances justify 
        an extension of up to 1 additional year.
            (3) Not more than 10 individuals may be employed at any time 
        as personal services contractors under the program.

    (c) Termination of Authority.--The authority to award personal 
services contracts under this section shall terminate on December 31, 
2007. A contract entered into prior to the termination date under this 
paragraph may remain in effect until not later than December 31, 2009.
    (d) Other Authorities Not Affected.--The authority under this 
section is in addition to any other authority of the Inspector General 
to hire personal services contractors.


                 FUNDING TABLES, REPORTS AND DIRECTIVES


    Sec. 3807. (a) Funds provided in this Act for the following accounts 
shall be made available for countries, programs and activities in the 
amounts contained in the respective tables and should be expended 
consistent with the reporting requirements and directives included in 
the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on 
H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-107):
            ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs''.
            ``Office of the Inspector General''.
            ``Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs''.
            ``Contributions to International Organizations''.
            ``Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities''.
            ``Child Survival and Health Programs Fund''.
            ``International Disaster and Famine Assistance''.
            ``Operating Expenses of the United States Agency for 
        International Development''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 150]]

            ``Operating Expenses of the United States Agency for 
        International Development Office of Inspector General''.
            ``Economic Support Fund''.
            ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States''.
            ``Democracy Fund''.
            ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement''.
            ``Migration and Refugee Assistance''.
            ``Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining and Related 
        Programs''.
            ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
            ``Peacekeeping Operations''.

    (b) Any proposed increases or decreases to the amounts contained in 
the tables in the joint explanatory statement shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations and 
section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                SPENDING PLAN AND NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES


    Sec. 3808. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Not later than 45 days 
after enactment of this Act the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations a report detailing planned expenditures for 
funds appropriated under the headings in this chapter and under the 
headings in chapter 6 of title I, except for funds appropriated under 
the heading ``International Disaster and Famine Assistance'': Provided, 
That funds appropriated under the headings in this chapter and in 
chapter 6 of title I, except for funds appropriated under the heading 
named in this section, shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


                  conditions on assistance for pakistan


    Sec. 3809. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  None of the funds made available for 
assistance for the central Government of Pakistan under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be made available for non-
project assistance until the Secretary of State submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations a report on the oversight mechanisms, 
performance benchmarks, and implementation processes for such funds: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available for non-project assistance 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available for assistance for Pakistan 
under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act, $5,000,000 
shall be made available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund of the 
Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, for 
political party development and election observation programs.


                         CIVILIAN RESERVE CORPS


    Sec. 3810. Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', up to $50,000,000 may be made 
available to support and maintain a civilian reserve corps: Provided, 
That none of the funds for a civilian reserve corps may be obligated 
without specific authorization in a subsequent Act of Congress: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That funds made available for 


[[Page 121 STAT. 151]]

this purpose shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.


                   EXTENSION OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS


    Sec. 3811. Section 1302(a) of Public Law 109-234 <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 
435.>>  is amended by striking ``one additional year'' and inserting 
``two additional years''.


 SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS SERVING AS TRANSLATORS OR 
                   INTERPRETERS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES


    Sec. 3812. (a) Increase in Numbers Admitted.--Section 1059 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (8 U.S.C. 1101 
note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``as a 
                translator'' and inserting ``, or under Chief of Mission 
                authority, as a translator or interpreter'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``the Chief of 
                Mission or'' after ``recommendation from''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``the Chief of 
                Mission or'' after ``as determined by''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``section during any 
        fiscal year shall not exceed 50.'' and inserting the following: 
        ``section--
                    ``(A) during each of the fiscal years 2007 and 2008, 
                shall not exceed 500; and
                    ``(B) during any other fiscal year shall not exceed 
                50.''.

    (b) Aliens Exempt From Employment-Based Numerical Limitations.--
Section 1059(c)(2) of such Act is amended--
            (1) by amending the paragraph designation and heading to 
        read as follows:
            ``(2) Aliens exempt from employment-based numerical 
        limitations.--''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and shall not be counted against the 
        numerical limitations under sections 201(d), 202(a), and 
        203(b)(4) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1151(d), 1152(a), and 1153(b)(4))'' before the period at the 
        end.

    (c) Adjustment of Status.--Section 1059 of such Act is further 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:

    ``(d) Adjustment of Status.--Notwithstanding paragraphs (2), (7) and 
(8) of section 245(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1255(c)), the Secretary of Homeland Security may adjust the status of an 
alien to that of a lawful permanent resident under section 245(a) of 
such Act if the alien--
            ``(1) was paroled or admitted as a nonimmigrant into the 
        United States; and
            ``(2) is otherwise eligible for special immigrant status 
        under this section and under the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 152]]

       TITLE IV--ADDITIONAL HURRICANE DISASTER RELIEF AND RECOVERY

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4101. Section 1231(k)(2) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3831(k)(2)) is amended by striking ``During calendar year 2006, 
the'' and inserting ``The''.

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs


               STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE


    For an additional amount for ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', for discretionary grants authorized by subpart 2 of part 
E, of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
as in effect on September 30, 2006, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 511 of said Act, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the amount made available under this heading 
shall be for local law enforcement initiatives in the Gulf Coast region 
related to the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina: Provided further, That 
these funds shall be apportioned among the States in quotient to their 
level of violent crime as estimated by the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation's Uniform Crime Report for the year 2005.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                  OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES


    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the shrimp and fishing industries, 
$110,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

              NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

                        exploration capabilities

    For an additional amount for ``Exploration Capabilities'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Katrina, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2009.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4201. Funds provided in this Act for the ``Department of 
Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Operations, 
Research, and Facilities'', shall be made available

[[Page 121 STAT. 153]]

according to the language relating to such account in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on H.R. 1591 of 
the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-107).
    Sec. 4202. Up to $48,000,000 of amounts made available to the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Public Law 109-148 and 
Public Law 109-234 for emergency hurricane and other natural disaster-
related expenses may be used to reimburse hurricane-related costs 
incurred by NASA in fiscal year 2005.

                                CHAPTER 3

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil


                              CONSTRUCTION


    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricane Katrina and other hurricanes of 
the 2005 season, $25,300,000, to remain available until expended, which 
may be used to continue construction of projects related to interior 
drainage for the greater New Orleans metropolitan area.


                  Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies


    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses relating to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and for other purposes, $1,407,700,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That $1,300,000,000 of the 
amount provided may be used by the Secretary of the Army to carry out 
projects and measures for the West Bank and Vicinity and Lake 
Ponchartrain and Vicinity, Louisiana, projects, as described under the 
heading ``Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies'', in chapter 3 of 
Public Law 109-148: Provided further, That $107,700,000 of the amount 
provided may be used to implement the projects for hurricane storm 
damage reduction, flood damage reduction, and ecosystem restoration 
within Hancock, Harrison, and Jackson Counties, Mississippi 
substantially in accordance with the Report of the Chief of Engineers 
dated December 31, 2006, and entitled ``Mississippi, Coastal 
Improvements Program Interim Report, Hancock, Harrison, and Jackson 
Counties, Mississippi'': Provided further, That projects authorized for 
implementation under this Chief's report shall be carried out at full 
Federal expense, except that the non-Federal interests shall be 
responsible for providing for all costs associated with operation and 
maintenance of the project: Provided further, That any project using 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be initiated only after non-
Federal interests have entered into binding agreements with the 
Secretary requiring the non-Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the 
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and rehabilitation costs of 
the project and to hold and save the United States free from damages due 
to the construction or operation and maintenance of the project, except 
for damages due to the fault or negligence of the United States or its 
contractors:

[[Page 121 STAT. 154]]

Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That the Chief of 
Engineers, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works, shall provide a monthly report to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations detailing the allocation and obligation of these 
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4301. The Secretary is authorized and directed to determine the 
value of eligible reimbursable expenses incurred by local governments in 
storm-proofing pumping stations, constructing safe houses for operators, 
and other interim flood control measures in and around the New Orleans 
metropolitan area that the Secretary determines to be integral to the 
overall plan to ensure operability of the stations during hurricanes, 
storms and high water events and the flood control plan for the area.
    Sec. 4302. (a) The Secretary of the Army is authorized and directed 
to utilize funds remaining available for obligation from the amounts 
appropriated in chapter 3 of Public Law 109-234 under the heading 
``Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies'' for projects in the greater 
New Orleans metropolitan area to prosecute these projects in a manner 
which promotes the goal of continuing work at an optimal pace, while 
maximizing, to the greatest extent practicable, levels of protection to 
reduce the risk of storm damage to people and property.
    (b) The expenditure of funds as provided in subsection (a) may be 
made without regard to individual amounts or purposes specified in 
chapter 3 of Public Law 109-234.
    (c) Any reallocation of funds that are necessary to accomplish the 
goal established in subsection (a) are authorized, subject to the 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriation.
    Sec. 4303. The Chief of Engineers shall investigate the overall 
technical advantages, disadvantages and operational effectiveness of 
operating the new pumping stations at the mouths of the 17th Street, 
Orleans Avenue and London Avenue canals in the New Orleans area directed 
for construction in Public Law 109-234 concurrently or in series with 
existing pumping stations serving these canals and the advantages, 
disadvantages and technical operational effectiveness of removing the 
existing pumping stations and configuring the new pumping stations and 
associated canals to handle all needed discharges to the lakefront or in 
combination with discharges directly to the Mississippi River in 
Jefferson Parish; and the advantages, disadvantages and technical 
operational effectiveness of replacing or improving the floodwalls and 
levees adjacent to the three outfall canals: Provided, That the analysis 
should be conducted at Federal expense: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That the analysis shall be 
completed and furnished to the Congress not later than three months 
after enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 4304. Using funds made available in Chapter 3 under title II of 
Public Law 109-234, under the heading ``Investigations'', the Secretary 
of the Army, in consultation with other agencies and the State of 
Louisiana shall accelerate completion as practicable the final report of 
the Chief of Engineers recommending a comprehensive plan to deauthorize 
deep draft navigation on the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet: Provided, 
That the plan shall incorporate and build upon the Interim Mississippi 
River Gulf Outlet Deep-

[[Page 121 STAT. 155]]

Draft De-Authorization Report submitted to Congress in December 2006 
pursuant to Public Law 109-234.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                     Disaster Loans Program Account


                     (including transfers of funds)


    Of the unobligated balances under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration, Disaster Loans Program Account'', $181,069,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be used for administrative 
expenses to carry out the disaster loan program, which may be 
transferred to and merged with ``Small Business Administration, Salaries 
and Expenses'', of which $500,000 is for the Office of Inspector General 
of the Small Business Administration for audits and reviews of disaster 
loans and the disaster loan program and shall be paid to appropriations 
for the Office of Inspector General; of which $171,569,000 is for direct 
administrative expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the 
direct loan program; and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect 
administrative expenses.
    Of the unobligated balances under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration, Disaster Loans Program Account'', $25,000,000 shall be 
made available for loans under section 7(b)(2) of the Small Business Act 
to pre-existing businesses located in an area for which the President 
declared a major disaster because of the hurricanes in the Gulf of 
Mexico in calendar year 2005, of which not to exceed $8,750,000 is for 
direct administrative expenses and may be transferred to and merged with 
``Small Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses'' to carry out 
the disaster loan program of the Small Business Administration.
    Of the unobligated balances under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration, Disaster Loans Program Account'', $150,000,000 is 
transferred to the ``Federal Emergency Management Agency, Disaster 
Relief'' account.

                                CHAPTER 5

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency


                             DISASTER RELIEF


                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'', $710,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That $4,000,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Office of Inspector General'': Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Review.>>  the Government Accountability Office shall 
review how the Federal Emergency Management Agency develops its 
estimates of the funds needed to respond to any given disaster as 
described in House Report 110-60.

[[Page 121 STAT. 156]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4501. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including any agreement, the Federal share of assistance, including 
direct Federal assistance, provided for the States of Louisiana, 
Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, and Texas in connection with Hurricanes 
Katrina, Wilma, Dennis, and Rita under sections 403, 406, 407, and 408 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5170b, 5172, 5173, and 5174) shall be 100 percent of the 
eligible costs under such sections.
    (b) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal share provided by subsection 
        (a) shall apply to disaster assistance applied for before the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Limitation.--In the case of disaster assistance provided 
        under sections 403, 406, and 407 of the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, the Federal share 
        provided by subsection (a) shall be limited to assistance 
        provided for projects for which a ``request for public 
        assistance form'' has been submitted.

    Sec. 4502. (a) Community Disaster Loan Act.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2(a) of the Community Disaster Loan 
        Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-88) <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2061.>>  is 
        amended by striking ``Provided further, That notwithstanding 
        section 417(c)(1) of the Stafford Act, such loans may not be 
        canceled:''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall be effective on the date of enactment of the Community 
        Disaster Loan Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-88).

    (b) Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title II of the Emergency 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on 
        Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234) is 
        amended under Federal Emergency Management Agency, ``Disaster 
        Assistance Direct Loan Program <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 459.>>  
        Account'' by striking ``Provided further, That notwithstanding 
        section 417(c)(1) of such Act, such loans may not be 
        canceled:''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall be effective on the date of enactment of the Emergency 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on 
        Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234).

    Sec. 4503. (a) In General.--Section 2401 of the Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, 
and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234) <<NOTE: 120 Stat. 
460.>>  is amended by striking ``12 months'' and inserting ``24 
months''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall be 
effective on the date of enactment of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234).

[[Page 121 STAT. 157]]

                                CHAPTER 6

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          National Park Service


                       Historic Preservation Fund


    For an additional amount for the ``Historic Preservation Fund'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Katrina and 
other hurricanes of the 2005 season, $10,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2008: Provided, That the funds provided under this 
heading shall be provided to the State Historic Preservation Officer, 
after consultation with the National Park Service, for grants for 
disaster relief in areas of Louisiana impacted by Hurricanes Katrina or 
Rita: Provided further, That grants shall be for the preservation, 
stabilization, rehabilitation, and repair of historic properties listed 
in or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, for 
planning and technical assistance: Provided further, That grants shall 
only be available for areas that the President determines to be a major 
disaster under section 102(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(2)) due to Hurricanes 
Katrina or Rita: Provided further, That individual grants shall not be 
subject to a non-Federal matching requirement: Provided further, That no 
more than 5 percent of funds provided under this heading for disaster 
relief grants may be used for administrative expenses.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER


                      (including transfer of funds)


    Sec. 4601. Of the disaster relief funds from Public Law 109-234, 120 
Stat. 418, 461, (June 30, 2006), chapter 5, ``National Park Service--
Historic Preservation Fund'', for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricane Katrina and other hurricanes of the 2005 
season that were allocated to the State of Mississippi by the National 
Park Service, $500,000 is hereby transferred to the ``National Park 
Service--National Recreation and Preservation'' appropriation: Provided, 
That these funds may be used to reconstruct destroyed properties that at 
the time of destruction were listed in the National Register of Historic 
Places and are otherwise qualified to receive these funds: Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Certification.>>  the State Historic Preservation 
Officer certifies that, for the community where that destroyed property 
was located, the property is iconic to or essential to illustrating that 
community's historic identity, that no other property in that community 
with the same associative historic value has survived, and that 
sufficient historical documentation exists to ensure an accurate 
reproduction.

                                CHAPTER 7

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                            Higher Education

    For an additional amount under part B of title VII of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (``HEA'') for institutions of higher

[[Page 121 STAT. 158]]

education (as defined in section 101 or section 102(c) of that Act) that 
are located in an area in which a major disaster was declared in 
accordance with section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act related to Hurricanes Katrina or Rita, 
$30,000,000: Provided, That such funds shall be available to the 
Secretary of Education only for payments to help defray the expenses 
(which may include lost revenue, reimbursement for expenses already 
incurred, and construction) incurred by such institutions of higher 
education that were forced to close, relocate or significantly curtail 
their activities as a result of damage directly caused by such 
hurricanes and for payments to enable such institutions to provide 
grants to students who attend such institutions for academic years 
beginning on or after July 1, 2006: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Criteria. Public information.>>  That such payments 
shall be made in accordance with criteria established by the Secretary 
and made publicly available without regard to section 437 of the General 
Education Provisions Act, section 553 of title 5, United States Code, or 
part B of title VII of the HEA: Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  
That the Secretary shall award funds available under this paragraph not 
later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                      Hurricane Education Recovery

    For carrying out activities authorized by subpart 1 of part D of 
title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended, for use by the States 
of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama primarily for recruiting, 
retaining, and compensating new and current teachers, school principals, 
assistant principals, principal resident directors, assistant directors, 
and other educators, who commit to work for at least three years in 
school-based positions in public elementary and secondary schools 
located in an area with respect to which a major disaster was declared 
under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) by reason of Hurricane Katrina 
or Hurricane Rita, including through such mechanisms as paying salary 
premiums, performance bonuses, housing subsidies, signing bonuses, and 
relocation costs and providing loan forgiveness, with priority given to 
teachers and school-based school principals, assistant principals, 
principal resident directors, assistant directors, and other educators 
who previously worked or lived in one of the affected areas, are 
currently employed (or become employed) in such a school in any of the 
affected areas after those disasters, and commit to continue that 
employment for at least 3 years, Provided, That funds available under 
this heading to such States may also be used for 1 or more of the 
following activities: (1) to build the capacity, knowledge, and skill of 
teachers and school-based school principals, assistant principals, 
principal resident directors, assistant directors, and other educators 
in such public elementary and secondary schools to provide an effective 
education, including the design, adaptation, and implementation of high-
quality formative assessments; (2) the establishment of partnerships 
with nonprofit entities with a demonstrated track record in recruiting 
and retaining outstanding teachers and other school-based school 
principals, assistant principals, principal resident directors, and 
assistant directors; and (3) paid release time for teachers and 
principals to identify and replicate successful practices from the 
fastest-improving and

[[Page 121 STAT. 159]]

highest-performing schools: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Education shall allocate amounts available under this heading among such 
States that submit applications; that such allocation shall be based on 
the number of public elementary and secondary schools in each State that 
were closed for 19 days or more during the period beginning on August 
29, 2005, and ending on December 31, 2005, due to Hurricane Katrina or 
Hurricane Rita; and that such States shall in turn allocate funds to 
local educational agencies, with priority given first to such agencies 
with the highest percentages of public elementary and secondary schools 
that are closed as a result of such hurricanes as of the date of 
enactment of this Act and then to such agencies with the highest 
percentages of public elementary and secondary schools with a student-
teacher ratio of at least 25 to 1, and with any remaining amounts to be 
distributed to such agencies with demonstrated need, as determined by 
the State Superintendent of Education: Provided further, 
That, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Performance plan. Notification.>>  in the case 
of any State that chooses to use amounts available under this heading 
for performance bonuses, not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and in collaboration with local educational 
agencies, teachers' unions, local principals' organizations, local 
parents' organizations, local business organizations, and local charter 
schools organizations, the State educational agency shall develop a plan 
for a rating system for performance bonuses, and if no agreement has 
been reached that is satisfactory to all consulting entities by such 
deadline, the State educational agency shall immediately send a letter 
notifying Congress and shall, not later than 30 days after such 
notification, establish and implement a rating system that shall be 
based on classroom observation and feedback more than once annually, 
conducted by multiple sources (including, but not limited to, principals 
and master teachers), and evaluated against research-based rubrics that 
use planning, instructional, and learning environment standards to 
measure teacher performance, except that the requirements of this 
proviso shall not apply to a State that has enacted a State law in 2006 
authorizing performance pay for teachers.

                  Programs to Restart School Operations

    Funds made available under section 102 of the Hurricane Education 
Recovery Act (title IV of division B of Public Law 109-148) may be used 
by the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas, in addition 
to the uses of funds described in section 102(e), for the following 
costs: (1) recruiting, retaining, and compensating new and current 
teachers, school principals, assistant principals, principal resident 
directors, assistant directors, and other educators for school-based 
positions in public elementary and secondary schools impacted by 
Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita, including through such mechanisms 
as paying salary premiums, performance bonuses, housing subsidies, 
signing bonuses, and relocation costs and providing loan forgiveness; 
(2) activities to build the capacity, knowledge, and skills of teachers 
and school-based school principals, assistant principals, principal 
resident directors, assistant directors, and other educators in such 
public elementary and secondary schools to provide an effective 
education, including the design, adaptation, and implementation of high-
quality formative assessments; (3) the establishment of partnerships 
with nonprofit entities with a demonstrated track record in

[[Page 121 STAT. 160]]

recruiting and retaining outstanding teachers and school-based school 
principals, assistant principals, principal resident directors, and 
assistant directors; and (4) paid release time for teachers and 
principals to identify and replicate successful practices from the 
fastest-improving and highest-performing schools.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4701. Section 105(b) of title IV of division B of Public Law 
109-148 <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2797.>>  is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``With respect to the program authorized by 
section 102 of this Act, the waiver authority in subsection (a) of this 
section shall be available until the end of fiscal year 2008.''.

    Sec. 4702. Notwithstanding section 2002(c) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1397a(c)), funds made available under the heading 
``Social Services Block Grant'' in division B of Public Law 109-148 
shall be available for expenditure by the States through the end of 
fiscal year 2009.
    Sec. 4703. <<NOTE: State listing. Waiver authority.>>  (a) In the 
event that Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, or Texas fails to meet its 
match requirement with funds appropriated in fiscal year 2006 or 2007, 
for fiscal years 2008 and 2009, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services may waive the application of section 2617(d)(4) of the Public 
Health Service Act for Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas.

    (b) The Secretary may not exercise the waiver authority available 
under subsection (a) to allow a grantee to provide less than a 25 
percent matching grant.
    (c) For grant years beginning in 2008, Louisiana, Mississippi, 
Alabama, and Texas and any eligible metropolitan area in Louisiana, 
Mississippi, Alabama, and Texas shall comply with each of the applicable 
requirements under title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300ff-11 et seq.).

                                CHAPTER 8

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Highway Administration


                          Federal-Aid Highways


                        Emergency Relief Program


                     (including rescission of funds)


    For an additional amount for the Emergency Relief Program as 
authorized under section 125 of title 23, United States Code, 
$871,022,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That section 
125(d)(1) of title 23, United States Code, shall not apply to emergency 
relief projects that respond to damage caused by the 2005-2006 winter 
storms in the State of California: Provided further, That of the 
unobligated balances of funds apportioned to each State under chapter 1 
of title 23, United States Code, $871,022,000 are rescinded: Provided 
further, That such rescission shall not apply to the funds distributed 
in accordance with sections 130(f) and 104(b)(5) of title 23, United 
States Code; sections 133(d)(1) and 163 of such title, as in effect on 
the day before

[[Page 121 STAT. 161]]

the date of enactment of Public Law 109-59; and the first sentence of 
section 133(d)(3)(A) of such title.

                     Federal Transit Administration


                             Formula Grants


    For an additional amount to be allocated by the Secretary to 
recipients of assistance under chapter 53 of title 49, United States 
Code, directly affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, $35,000,000, for 
the operating and capital costs of transit services, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Federal share for any project funded 
from this amount shall be 100 percent.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                       Office of Inspector General

    For an additional amount for the Office of Inspector General, for 
the necessary costs related to the consequences of Hurricanes Katrina 
and Rita, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4801. The third proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Housing and Urban Development--Public and Indian Housing--Tenant-Based 
Rental Assistance'' in chapter 9 of title I of division B of Public Law 
109-148 (119 Stat. 2779) is amended by striking ``for up to 18 months'' 
and inserting ``until December 31, 2007''.
    Sec. 4802. Section 21033 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 51.>>  is amended by adding after the third 
proviso: ``: Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous 
proviso, except for applying the 2007 Annual Adjustment Factor and 
making any other specified adjustments, public housing agencies 
specified in category 1 below shall receive funding for calendar year 
2007 based on the higher of the amounts the agencies would receive under 
the previous proviso or the amounts the agencies received in calendar 
year 2006, and public housing agencies specified in categories 2 and 3 
below shall receive funding for calendar year 2007 equal to the amounts 
the agencies received in calendar year 2006, except that public housing 
agencies specified in categories 1 and 2 below shall receive funding 
under this proviso only if, and to the extent that, any such public 
housing agency submits a plan, approved by the Secretary, that 
demonstrates that the agency can effectively use within 12 months the 
funding that the agency would receive under this proviso that is in 
addition to the funding that the agency would receive under the previous 
proviso: (1) public housing agencies that are eligible for assistance 
under section 901 in Public Law 109-148 (119 Stat. 2781) or are located 
in the same counties as those eligible under section 901 and operate 
voucher programs under section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 but do not operate public housing under section 9 of such Act, and 
any public housing agency that otherwise qualifies under this category 
must demonstrate that they have experienced a loss of rental housing 
stock as a result of the 2005 hurricanes; (2) public housing agencies 
that would receive less funding under the previous proviso than they 
would receive 


[[Page 121 STAT. 162]]

under this proviso and that have been placed in receivership or the 
Secretary has declared to be in breach of an Annual Contributions 
Contract by June 1, 2007; and (3) public housing agencies that spent 
more in calendar year 2006 than the total of the amounts of any such 
public housing agency's allocation amount for calendar year 2006 and the 
amount of any such public housing agency's available housing assistance 
payments undesignated funds balance from calendar year 2005 and the 
amount of any such public housing agency's available administrative fees 
undesignated funds balance through calendar year 2006''.
    Sec. 4803. Section 901 of Public Law 109-148 <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 
2781.>>  is amended by deleting ``calendar year 2006'' and inserting 
``calendar years 2006 and 2007''.

                                CHAPTER 9

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                       Departmental Administration


                      Construction, Minor Projects


                     (Including Rescission of Funds)


    For an additional amount for Department of Veterans Affairs, 
``Construction, Minor Projects'', $14,484,754, to remain available until 
September 30, 2008, for necessary expenses related to the consequences 
of Hurricane Katrina and other hurricanes of the 2005 season.
    Of the funds available until September 30, 2007, for the 
``Construction, Minor Projects'' account of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, pursuant to section 2702 of Public Law 109-234, $14,484,754 are 
hereby rescinded.

                 TITLE V--OTHER EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 5101. In addition to any other available funds, there is hereby 
appropriated $40,000,000 to the Secretary of Agriculture, to remain 
available until expended, for programs and activities of the Department 
of Agriculture, as determined by the Secretary, to provide recovery 
assistance in response to damage in conjunction with the Presidential 
declaration of a major disaster (FEMA-1699-DR) dated May 6, 2007, for 
needs not met by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or private 
insurers: Provided, That, in addition, the Secretary may use funds 
provided under this section, consistent with the provisions of this 
section, to respond to any other Presidential declaration of a major 
disaster issued under the authority of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121-5206 (the Stafford 
Act), declared during fiscal year 2007 for events occurring before the

[[Page 121 STAT. 163]]

date of the enactment of this Act or a Secretary of Agriculture 
declaration of a natural disaster, declared during fiscal year 2007 for 
events occurring before the date of the enactment of this Act.

                                CHAPTER 2

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', $60,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008: 
Provided, That the National Marine Fisheries Service shall cause such 
amounts to be distributed among eligible recipients of assistance for 
the commercial fishery failure designated under section 312(a) of the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1861a(a)) and declared by the Secretary of Commerce on August 10, 2006.

                                CHAPTER 3

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil


                             investigations


    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'' for flood damage 
reduction studies to address flooding associated with disasters covered 
by Presidential Disaster Declaration FEMA-1692-DR, $8,165,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                              construction


    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for flood damage 
reduction activities associated with disasters covered by Presidential 
Disaster Declarations FEMA-1692-DR and FEMA-1694-DR, $11,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                        operation and maintenance


    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' to dredge 
navigation channels related to the consequences of hurricanes of the 
2005 season, $3,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                  flood control and coastal emergencies


    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), to support emergency operations, repairs and other 
activities in response to flood, drought and earthquake emergencies as 
authorized by law, $153,300,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That the Chief of Engineers, 
acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, 
shall 


[[Page 121 STAT. 164]]

provide a monthly report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, 
beginning not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading, $7,000,000 shall 
be available for drought emergency assistance.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation


                       WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES


    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'', 
$18,000,000, to remain available until expended for drought assistance: 
Provided, That drought assistance may be provided under the Reclamation 
States Drought Emergency Act or other applicable Reclamation authorities 
to assist drought plagued areas of the West.

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                        wildland fire management


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$95,000,000, to remain available until expended, for urgent wildland 
fire suppression activities: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That 
such funds shall only become available if funds previously provided for 
wildland fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary 
of the Interior notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations in writing of the need for these additional funds: 
Provided further, That such funds are also available for repayment to 
other appropriations accounts from which funds were transferred for 
wildfire suppression.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                           Resource Management


    For an additional amount for ``Resource Management'' for the 
detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza in wild birds, including 
the investigation of morbidity and mortality events, targeted 
surveillance in live wild birds, and targeted surveillance in hunter-
taken birds, $7,398,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                          National Park Service


                  Operation of the National Park System


    For an additional amount for ``Operation of the National Park 
System'' for the detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza in

[[Page 121 STAT. 165]]

wild birds, including the investigation of morbidity and mortality 
events, $525,000, to remain available until September 30, 2008.

                     United States Geological Survey


                  Surveys, Investigations, and Research


    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'' for the detection of highly pathogenic avian influenza in 
wild birds, including the investigation of morbidity and mortality 
events, targeted surveillance in live wild birds, and targeted 
surveillance in hunter-taken birds, $5,270,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2008.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service


                         National Forest System


    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'' for the 
implementation of a nationwide initiative to increase protection of 
national forest lands from drug-trafficking organizations, including 
funding for additional law enforcement personnel, training, equipment 
and cooperative agreements, $12,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        wildland fire management


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$370,000,000, to remain available until expended, for urgent wildland 
fire suppression activities: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That 
such funds shall only become available if funds provided previously for 
wildland fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary 
of Agriculture notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations in writing of the need for these additional funds: 
Provided further, That such funds are also available for repayment to 
other appropriation accounts from which funds were transferred for 
wildfire suppression.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 5401. (a) For fiscal year 2007, payments shall be made from any 
revenues, fees, penalties, or miscellaneous receipts described in 
sections 102(b)(3) and 103(b)(2) of the Secure Rural Schools and 
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-393; 16 U.S.C. 
500 note), not to exceed $100,000,000, and the payments shall be made, 
to the maximum extent practicable, in the same amounts, for the same 
purposes, and in the same manner as were made to States and counties in 
2006 under that Act.
    (b) There is appropriated $425,000,000, to remain available until 
December 31, 2007, to be used to cover any shortfall for payments made 
under this section from funds not otherwise appropriated.

[[Page 121 STAT. 166]]

    (c) Titles II and III of Public Law 106-393 <<NOTE: Effective 
date. 16 USC 500 and note.>>  are amended, effective September 30, 2006, 
by striking ``2006'' and ``2007'' each place they appear and inserting 
``2007'' and ``2008'', respectively.

                                CHAPTER 5

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


                 DISEASE CONTROL, RESEARCH AND TRAINING


    For an additional amount for ``Department of Health and Human 
Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Disease Control, 
Research and Training'', to carry out section 501 of the Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 and section 6 of the Mine Improvement and 
New Emergency Response Act of 2006, $13,000,000 for research to develop 
mine safety technology, including necessary repairs and improvements to 
leased laboratories: Provided, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That 
progress reports on technology development shall be submitted to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on 
Education and Labor of the House of Representatives on a quarterly 
basis: Provided further, That the amount provided under this heading 
shall remain available until September 30, 2008.

    For an additional amount for ``Department of Health and Human 
Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Disease Control, 
Research and Training'', to carry out activities under section 5011(b) 
of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act to Address Hurricanes 
in the Gulf of Mexico and Pandemic Influenza, 2006 (Public Law 109-148), 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER


                         (including rescissions)


    Sec. 5501. (a). From unexpended balances available for the Training 
and Employment Services account under the Department of Labor, the 
following amounts are hereby rescinded--
            (1) $3,589,000 transferred pursuant to the 2001 Emergency 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act for Recovery from and Response 
        to Terrorist Attacks on the United States (Public Law 107-38);
            (2) $834,000 transferred pursuant to the Emergency 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-211); 
        and
            (3) $71,000 for the Consortium for Worker Education pursuant 
        to the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-117).

    (b) From unexpended balances available for the State Unemployment 
Insurance and Employment Service Operations account under the Department 
of Labor pursuant to the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 (Public Law 
107-117), $4,100,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 5502. (a) For an additional amount under ``Department of 
Education, Safe Schools and Citizenship Education'', $8,594,000

[[Page 121 STAT. 167]]

shall be available for Safe and Drug-Free Schools National Programs for 
competitive grants to local educational agencies to address youth 
violence and related issues.
    (b) The competition under subsection (a) shall be limited to local 
educational agencies that operate schools currently identified as 
persistently dangerous under section 9532 of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965.
    Sec. 5503. Unobligated balances from funds appropriated in the 
Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for 
Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the United States 
Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-117) to the Department of Health and Human 
Services under the heading ``Public Health and Social Services Emergency 
Fund'' that are available for bioterrorism preparedness and disaster 
response activities in the Office of the Secretary shall also be 
available for the construction, renovation and improvement of facilities 
on federally-owned land as necessary for continuity of operations 
activities.

                                CHAPTER 6

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                            General Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol Police, General Expenses'', 
$10,000,000 for a radio modernization program, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, <<NOTE: Obligation plan.>>  That the Chief of the 
Capitol Police may not obligate any of the funds appropriated under this 
heading without approval of an obligation plan by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol Power Plant'', $50,000,000, 
for utility tunnel repairs and asbestos abatement, to remain available 
until September 30, 2011: Provided, <<NOTE: Obligation plan.>>  That the 
Architect of the Capitol may not obligate any of the funds appropriated 
under this heading without approval of an obligation plan by the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives.

                                CHAPTER 7

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                     Veterans Health Administration


                            MEDICAL SERVICES


    For an additional amount for ``Medical Services'', $466,778,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $30,000,000 shall be for the 
establishment of at least one new Level I comprehensive polytrauma 
center; $9,440,000 shall be for the establishment of

[[Page 121 STAT. 168]]

polytrauma residential transitional rehabilitation programs; $10,000,000 
shall be for additional transition caseworkers; $20,000,000 shall be for 
substance abuse treatment programs; $20,000,000 shall be for 
readjustment counseling; $10,000,000 shall be for blind rehabilitation 
services; $100,000,000 shall be for enhancements to mental health 
services; $8,000,000 shall be for polytrauma support clinic teams; 
$5,356,000 shall be for additional polytrauma points of contact; 
$228,982,000 shall be for treatment of Operation Enduring Freedom and 
Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans; and $25,000,000 shall be for 
prosthetics.


                         MEDICAL ADMINISTRATION


    For an additional amount for ``Medical Administration'', 
$250,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                           MEDICAL FACILITIES


    For an additional amount for ``Medical Facilities'', $595,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $45,000,000 shall be used 
for facility and equipment upgrades at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs polytrauma network sites; and $550,000,000 shall be for non-
recurring maintenance as identified in the Department of Veterans 
Affairs Facility Condition Assessment report: Provided, That the amount 
provided under this heading for non-recurring maintenance shall be 
allocated in a manner not subject to the Veterans Equitable Resource 
Allocation: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure 
plan.>>  within 30 days of enactment of this Act the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an 
expenditure plan, by project, for non-recurring maintenance prior to 
obligation: Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  That semi-
annually, on October 1 and April 1, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the 
status of funding for non-recurring maintenance, including obligations 
and unobligated balances for each project identified in the expenditure 
plan.


                     MEDICAL AND PROSTHETIC RESEARCH


    For an additional amount for ``Medical and Prosthetic Research'', 
$32,500,000, to remain available until expended, which shall be used for 
research related to the unique medical needs of returning Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans.

                       Departmental Administration


                       General Operating Expenses


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount for ``General Operating Expenses'', 
$83,200,000, to remain available until expended, of which $1,250,000 
shall be for digitization of military records; $60,750,000 shall be for 
expenses related to hiring and training new claims processing personnel; 
up to $1,200,000 shall be for an independent study of the organizational 
structure, management and coordination processes, including seamless 
transition, utilized by the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide 
health care and benefits to active

[[Page 121 STAT. 169]]

duty personnel and veterans, including those returning Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans; and $20,000,000 
shall be for disability examinations: Provided, That not to exceed 
$1,250,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading may be 
transferred to the Department of Defense for the digitization of 
military records used to verify stressors for benefits claims.


                     INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS


    For an additional amount for ``Information Technology Systems'', 
$35,100,000, to remain available until expended, of which $20,000,000 
shall be for information technology support and improvements for 
processing of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom 
veterans benefits claims, including making electronic Department of 
Defense medical records available for claims processing and enabling 
electronic benefits applications by veterans; and $15,100,000 shall be 
for electronic data breach remediation and prevention.


                      CONSTRUCTION, MINOR PROJECTS


    For an additional amount for ``Construction, Minor Projects'', 
$326,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which up to 
$36,000,000 shall be for construction costs associated with the 
establishment of polytrauma residential transitional rehabilitation 
programs.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 5701. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  The Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office shall, not later than November 15, 2007, 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report projecting appropriations 
necessary for the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs to 
continue providing necessary health care to veterans of the conflicts in 
Iraq and Afghanistan. The projections should span several scenarios for 
the duration and number of forces deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 
more generally, for the long-term health care needs of deployed troops 
engaged in the global war on terrorism over the next 10 years.

    Sec. 5702. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
appropriations made by Public Law 110-5, which the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs contributes to the Department of Defense/Department of Veterans 
Affairs Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund under the authority of 
section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, shall remain available 
until expended for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 5703. (a)(1) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs (referred to in 
this section as the ``Secretary'') may convey to the State of Texas, 
without consideration, all rights, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to the parcel of real property comprising the location of 
the Marlin, Texas, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
    (2) The property conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be used by the 
State of Texas for the purposes of a prison.
    (b) In carrying out the conveyance under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall conduct environmental cleanup on the parcel to be 
conveyed, at a cost not to exceed $500,000, using amounts

[[Page 121 STAT. 170]]

made available for environmental cleanup of sites under the jurisdiction 
of the Secretary.
    (c) Nothing in this section may be construed to affect or limit the 
application of or obligation to comply with any environmental law, 
including section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).
    Sec. 5704. (a) Funds provided in this Act for the following accounts 
shall be made available for programs under the conditions contained in 
the language of the joint explanatory statement of managers accompanying 
the conference report on H.R. 1591 of the 110th Congress (H. Rept. 110-
107):
            ``Medical Services''.
            ``Medical Administration''.
            ``Medical Facilities''.
            ``Medical and Prosthetic Research''.
            ``General Operating Expenses''.
            ``Information Technology Systems''.
            ``Construction, Minor Projects''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit all reports requested in House Report 110-60 and Senate Report 
110-37, to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

    Sec. 5705. Subsection (d) of section 2023 of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``shall cease'' and all that follows 
through ``program'' and inserting ``shall cease on September 30, 2007''.

                         TITLE VI--OTHER MATTERS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency


                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' of the Farm 
Service Agency, $37,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2008: Provided, That this amount shall only be available for network and 
database/application stabilization.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6101. Of the funds made available through appropriations to the 
Food and Drug Administration for fiscal year 2007, not less than 
$4,000,000 shall be for the Office of Women's Health of such 
Administration.
    Sec. 6102. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture for fiscal year 2007 may be used to implement the risk-based 
inspection program in the 30 prototype locations announced on February 
22, 2007, by the Under Secretary for Food Safety, or at any other 
locations, until the USDA Office of Inspector General has provided its 
findings to the Food Safety and Inspection Service and the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on the 
data used in support of

[[Page 121 STAT. 171]]

the development and design of the risk-based inspection program and FSIS 
has addressed and resolved issues identified by OIG.

                                CHAPTER 2

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6201. <<NOTE: Government employees. 31 USC 501 note. Bond 
payments.>>  Hereafter, Federal employees at the National Energy 
Technology Laboratory shall be classified as inherently governmental for 
the purpose of the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note).

    Sec. 6202. None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act shall be used during fiscal year 2007 to make, or plan or prepare to 
make, any payment on bonds issued by the Administrator of the Bonneville 
Power Administration (referred in this section as the ``Administrator'') 
or for an appropriated Federal Columbia River Power System investment, 
if the payment is both--
            (1) greater, during any fiscal year, than the payments 
        calculated in the rate hearing of the Administrator to be made 
        during that fiscal year using the repayment method used to 
        establish the rates of the Administrator as in effect on October 
        1, 2006; and
            (2) based or conditioned on the actual or expected net 
        secondary power sales receipts of the Administrator.

                                CHAPTER 3

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6301. (a) Section 102(a)(3)(B) of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (42 U.S.C. 15302(a)(3)(B)) is amended by striking ``January 1, 
2006'' and inserting ``March 1, 2008''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 15302 note.>>  The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of 
the Help America Vote Act of 2002.

    Sec. 6302. <<NOTE: Government organization.>>  The structure of any 
of the offices or components within the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy shall remain as they were on October 1, 2006. None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available in the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-5) may be used to 
implement a reorganization of offices within the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy without the explicit approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

    Sec. 6303. From the amount provided by section 21067 of the 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-5), the 
National Archives and Records Administration may obligate monies 
necessary to carry out the activities of the Public Interest 
Declassification Board.
    Sec. 6304. Notwithstanding the notice requirement of the 
Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, 
the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2006, 119 Stat. 2509 (Public Law 109-115), as continued in section 104 
of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-5), 
the District of Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than $1,000,000 
of the funds provided for fiscal year 2007 under the Federal Payment to 
the District

[[Page 121 STAT. 172]]

of Columbia Courts for facilities among the items and entities funded 
under that heading for operations.
    Sec. 6305. (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
in coordination with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in 
consultation with the Departments of State and Energy, shall prepare and 
submit to the Senate Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs, the House Committee on Financial Services, the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee, and the House Foreign Affairs Committee a written 
report, which may include a classified annex, containing the names of 
companies which either directly or through a parent or subsidiary 
company, including partly-owned subsidiaries, are known to conduct 
significant business operations in Sudan relating to natural resource 
extraction, including oil-related activities and mining of minerals. The 
reporting provision shall not apply to companies operating under 
licenses from the Office of Foreign Assets Control or otherwise 
expressly exempted under United States law from having to obtain such 
licenses in order to operate in Sudan.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline. Contracts. Notification.>>  Not later than 45 
days following the submission to Congress of the list of companies 
conducting business operations in Sudan relating to natural resource 
extraction as required above, the General Services Administration shall 
determine whether the United States Government has an active contract 
for the procurement of goods or services with any of the identified 
companies, and provide notification to the appropriate committees of 
Congress, which may include a classified annex, regarding the companies, 
nature of the contract, and dollar amounts involved.


                         (including rescission)


    Sec. 6306. (a) Of the funds provided for the General Services 
Administration, ``Office of Inspector General'' in section 21061 of the 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 
109-289, as amended by Public Law 110-5), $4,500,000 are rescinded.
    (b) For an additional amount for the General Services 
Administration, ``Office of Inspector General'', $4,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2008.
    (c) With the additional amount of $9,336,000 appropriated in Public 
Law 110-5 and in this Act, above the amount appropriated in Public Law 
109-115, of which $4,500,000 remains available for obligation in fiscal 
year 2008, the Office of Inspector General shall hire additional staff 
for internal audits and investigations, and the remaining funds shall be 
for one-time associated needs such as information technology and other 
such administrative support.
    Sec. 6307. Section 21073 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 58.>>  is amended 
by adding a new subsection (j) as follows:

    ``(j) <<NOTE: District of Columbia. Expenditure plan. Deadline.>>  
Notwithstanding section 101, any appropriation or funds made available 
to the District of Columbia pursuant to this Act for `Federal Payment 
for Foster Care Improvement in the District of Columbia' shall be 
available in accordance with an expenditure plan submitted by the Mayor 
of the District of Columbia not later than 60 days after the enactment 
of this section which details the activities to be carried out with such 
Federal Payment.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 173]]

    Sec. 6308. It is the sense of Congress that the Small Business 
Administration will provide, through funds available within amounts 
already appropriated for Small Business Administration disaster 
assistance, physical and economic injury disaster loans to Kansas 
businesses and homeowners devastated by the severe tornadoes, storms, 
and flooding that occurred beginning on May 4, 2007.

                                CHAPTER 4

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6401. Not to exceed $30,000,000 from unobligated balances 
remaining from prior appropriations for United States Coast Guard, 
``Retired Pay'', shall remain available until expended in the account 
and for the purposes for which the appropriations were provided, 
including the payment of obligations otherwise chargeable to lapsed or 
current appropriations for this purpose: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  That within 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the United States Coast Guard shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives the following: (1) a report on steps being taken to 
improve the accuracy of its estimates for the ``Retired Pay'' 
appropriation; and (2) quarterly reports on the use of unobligated 
balances made available by this Act to address the projected shortfall 
in the ``Retired Pay'' appropriation, as well as updated estimates for 
fiscal year 2008.

    Sec. 6402. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  (a) In General.--Any contract, 
subcontract, task or delivery order described in subsection (b) shall 
contain the following:
            (1) A requirement for a technical review of all designs, 
        design changes, and engineering change proposals, and a 
        requirement to specifically address all engineering concerns 
        identified in the review before the obligation of further funds 
        may occur.
            (2) A requirement that the Coast Guard maintain technical 
        warrant holder authority, or the equivalent, for major assets.
            (3) A requirement that no procurement subject to subsection 
        (b) for lead asset production or the implementation of a major 
        design change shall be entered into unless an independent third 
        party with no financial interest in the development, 
        construction, or modification of any component of the asset, 
        selected by the Commandant, determines that such action is 
        advisable.
            (4) A requirement for independent life-cycle cost estimates 
        of lead assets and major design and engineering changes.
            (5) A requirement for the measurement of contractor and 
        subcontractor performance based on the status of all work 
        performed. For contracts under the Integrated Deepwater Systems 
        program, such requirement shall include a provision that links 
        award fees to successful acquisition outcomes (which shall be 
        defined in terms of cost, schedule, and performance).
            (6) A requirement that the Commandant of the Coast Guard 
        assign an appropriate officer or employee of the Coast Guard to 
        act as chair of each integrated product team and

[[Page 121 STAT. 174]]

        higher-level team assigned to the oversight of each integrated 
        product team.
            (7) A requirement that the Commandant of the Coast Guard may 
        not award or issue any contract, task or delivery order, letter 
        contract modification thereof, or other similar contract, for 
        the acquisition or modification of an asset under a procurement 
        subject to subsection (b) unless the Coast Guard and the 
        contractor concerned have formally agreed to all terms and 
        conditions or the head of contracting activity for the Coast 
        Guard determines that a compelling need exists for the award or 
        issue of such instrument.

    (b) Contracts, Subcontracts, Task and Delivery Orders Covered.--
Subsection (a) applies to--
            (1) any major procurement contract, first-tier subcontract, 
        delivery or task order entered into by the Coast Guard;
            (2) any first-tier subcontract entered into under such a 
        contract; and
            (3) any task or delivery order issued pursuant to such a 
        contract or subcontract.

    (c) Expenditure of Deepwater Funds.--Of the funds available for the 
Integrated Deepwater Systems program, $650,000,000 may not be obligated 
until the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives receive an expenditure plan directly from the Coast 
Guard that--
            (1) defines activities, milestones, yearly costs, and life-
        cycle costs for each procurement of a major asset;
            (2) identifies life-cycle staffing and training needs of 
        Coast Guard project managers and of procurement and contract 
        staff;
            (3) identifies competition to be conducted in each 
        procurement;
            (4) describes procurement plans that do not rely on a single 
        industry entity or contract;
            (5) contains very limited indefinite delivery/indefinite 
        quantity contracts and explains the need for any indefinite 
        delivery/indefinite quantity contracts;
            (6) complies with all applicable acquisition rules, 
        requirements, and guidelines, and incorporates the best systems 
        acquisition management practices of the Federal Government;
            (7) complies with the capital planning and investment 
        control requirements established by the Office of Management and 
        Budget, including circular A-11, part 7;
            (8) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  includes a certification by 
        the head of contracting activity for the Coast Guard and the 
        Chief Procurement Officer of the Department of Homeland Security 
        that the Coast Guard has established sufficient controls and 
        procedures and has sufficient staffing to comply with all 
        contracting requirements, and that any conflicts of interest 
        have been sufficiently addressed;
            (9) includes a description of the process used to act upon 
        deviations from the contractually specified performance 
        requirements and clearly explains the actions taken on such 
        deviations;
            (10) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  includes a certification that 
        the Assistant Commandant of the Coast Guard for Engineering and 
        Logistics is designated as the technical authority for all 
        engineering, design, and logistics decisions pertaining to the 
        Integrated Deepwater Systems program; and
            (11) identifies progress in complying with the requirements 
        of subsection (a).

[[Page 121 STAT. 175]]

    (d) Reports.--(1) Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives; the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation 
of the Senate; and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives: (i) a report on the resources (including 
training, staff, and expertise) required by the Coast Guard to provide 
appropriate management and oversight of the Integrated Deepwater Systems 
program; and (ii) a report on how the Coast Guard will utilize full and 
open competition for any contract that provides for the acquisition or 
modification of assets under, or in support of, the Integrated Deepwater 
Systems program, entered into after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (2) <<NOTE: Expenditure plan.>>  Within 30 days following the 
submission of the expenditure plan required under subsection (c), the 
Government Accountability Office shall review the plan and brief the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on its findings.

    Sec. 6403. None of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act 
may be used to alter or reduce operations within the Civil Engineering 
Program of the Coast Guard nationwide, including the civil engineering 
units, facilities, design and construction centers, maintenance and 
logistics command centers, and the Coast Guard Academy, except as 
specifically authorized by a statute enacted after the date of enactment 
of this Act.


                    (including rescissions of funds)


    Sec. 6404. (a) Rescissions.--The following unobligated balances made 
available pursuant to section 505 of Public Law 109-90 are rescinded: 
$1,200,962 from the ``Office of the Secretary and Executive 
Management''; $512,855 from the ``Office of the Under Secretary for 
Management''; $461,874 from the ``Office of the Chief Information 
Officer''; $45,080 from the ``Office of the Chief Financial Officer''; 
$968,211 from Preparedness ``Management and Administration''; $1,215,486 
from Science and Technology ``Management and Administration''; $450,000 
from United States Secret Service ``Salaries and Expenses''; $450,000 
from Federal Emergency Management Agency ``Administrative and Regional 
Operations''; and $25,595,532 from United States Coast Guard ``Operating 
Expenses''.
    (b) Additional Appropriations.--
            (1) For an additional amount for United States Coast Guard 
        ``Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'', $30,000,000, to 
        remain available until September 30, 2009, to mitigate the 
        Service's patrol boat operational gap.
            (2) For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Under 
        Secretary for Management'', $900,000 for an independent study to 
        compare the Department of Homeland Security senior career and 
        political staffing levels and senior career training programs 
        with those of similarly structured cabinet-level agencies as 
        detailed in House Report 110-107: 
        Provided, <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>>  That the Department of 
        Homeland Security shall provide to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives by 
        July 20, 2007, a report on senior staffing, as detailed in 
        Senate Report 110-37, and the Government Accountability Office 
        shall report on the strengths and weakness of this report within 
        90 days after its submission.

[[Page 121 STAT. 176]]

    Sec. 6405. <<NOTE: Contracts. 6 USC 396.>>  (a) In General.--With 
respect to contracts entered into after July 1, 2007, and except as 
provided in subsection (b), no entity performing lead system integrator 
functions in the acquisition of a major system by the Department of 
Homeland Security may have any direct financial interest in the 
development or construction of any individual system or element of any 
system of systems.

    (b) Exception.--An entity described in subsection (a) may have a 
direct financial interest in the development or construction of an 
individual system or element of a system of systems if--
            (1) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee 
        on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science and Transportation of the Senate that--
                    (A) the entity was selected by the Department of 
                Homeland Security as a contractor to develop or 
                construct the system or element concerned through the 
                use of competitive procedures; and
                    (B) the Department took appropriate steps to prevent 
                any organizational conflict of interest in the selection 
                process; or
            (2) the entity was selected by a subcontractor to serve as a 
        lower-tier subcontractor, through a process over which the 
        entity exercised no control.

    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
preclude an entity described in subsection (a) from performing work 
necessary to integrate two or more individual systems or elements of a 
system of systems with each other.
    (d) Regulations Update.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than July 1, 
2007, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall update the acquisition 
regulations of the Department of Homeland Security in order to specify 
fully in such regulations the matters with respect to lead system 
integrators set forth in this section. Included in such regulations 
shall be: (1) a precise and comprehensive definition of the term ``lead 
system integrator'', modeled after that used by the Department of 
Defense; and (2) a specification of various types of contracts and fee 
structures that are appropriate for use by lead system integrators in 
the production, fielding, and sustainment of complex systems.

                                CHAPTER 5

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6501. Section 20515 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 27.>>  is amended by inserting before the 
period: ``; and of which, not to exceed $143,628,000 shall be available 
for contract support costs under the terms and conditions contained in 
Public Law 109-54''.

    Sec. 6502. Section 20512 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 27.>>  is amended by inserting after the 
first dollar 


[[Page 121 STAT. 177]]

amount: ``, of which not to exceed $7,300,000 shall be transferred to 
the `Indian Health Facilities' account; the amount in the second proviso 
shall be $18,000,000; the amount in the third proviso shall be 
$525,099,000; the amount in the ninth proviso shall be $269,730,000; and 
the $15,000,000 allocation of funding under the eleventh proviso shall 
not be required''.
    Sec. 6503. Section 20501 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 26.>>  is amended by inserting after 
``$55,663,000'' the following: ``of which $13,000,000 shall be for Save 
America's Treasures''.

    Sec. 6504. Funds made available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service for fiscal year 2007 under the heading ``Land 
Acquisition'' may be used for land conservation partnerships authorized 
by the Highlands Conservation Act of 2004.

                                CHAPTER 6

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      National Institutes of Health


          National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases


                           (TRANSFER OF FUNDS)


    Of the amount provided by the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public Law 110-5) 
for ``National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases'', 
$49,500,000 shall be transferred to ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'' to carry out activities relating to advanced research 
and development as provided by section 319L of the Public Health Service 
Act.


                         OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR


                           (Transfer of Funds)


    Of the amount provided by the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public Law 110-5) 
for ``Office of the Director'', $49,500,000 shall be transferred to 
``Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'' to carry out 
activities relating to advanced research and development as provided by 
section 319L of the Public Health Service Act.


                     NATIONAL COUNCIL ON DISABILITY


                          Salaries and Expenses


    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $300,000, to 
remain available until expended, for necessary expenses related to the 
requirements of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 
2006, as enacted by the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations 
Act, 2007 (Public Law 109-295).

[[Page 121 STAT. 178]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER


             (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS AND RESCISSIONS)


    Sec. 6601. Section 20602 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 29.>>  is amended by inserting the following 
after ``$5,000,000'': ``(together with an additional $7,000,000 which 
shall be transferred by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation as an 
authorized administrative cost), to remain available through September 
30, 2008,''.

    Sec. 6602. (a) None of the funds available to the Mine Safety and 
Health Administration under the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public Law 110-5) 
shall be used to enter into or carry out a contract for the performance 
by a contractor of any operations or services pursuant to the public-
private competitions conducted under Office of Management and Budget 
Circular A-76.
    (b) <<NOTE: Government employees. 31 USC 501 note.>>  Hereafter, 
Federal employees at the Mine Safety and Health Administration shall be 
classified as inherently governmental for the purpose of the Federal 
Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (31 U.S.C. 501 note).

    Sec. 6603. Section 20607 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 30.>>  is amended by inserting ``of which 
$9,666,000 shall be for the Women's Bureau,'' after ``for child labor 
activities,''.

    Sec. 6604. Of the amount provided for ``Department of Health and 
Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Health 
Resources and Services'' in the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public Law 110-5), 
$23,000,000 shall be for Poison Control Centers.
    Sec. 6605. From the amounts made available by the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as 
amended by Public Law 110-5) for the Office of the Secretary, General 
Departmental Management under the Department of Health and Human 
Services, $500,000 are rescinded.
    Sec. 6606. Section 20625(b)(1) of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 34.>>  is amended by--
            (1) striking ``$7,172,994,000'' and inserting 
        ``$7,176,431,000'';
            (2) amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows: ``(A) 
        $5,454,824,000 shall be for basic grants under section 1124 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA), of 
        which up to $3,437,000 shall be available to the Secretary of 
        Education on October 1, 2006, to obtain annually updated 
        educational-agency-level census poverty data from the Bureau of 
        the Census;''; and
            (3) amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows: ``(C) not 
        to exceed $2,352,000 may be available for section 1608 of the 
        ESEA and for a clearinghouse on comprehensive school reform 
        under part D of title V of the ESEA;''.

    Sec. 6607. The provision in the first proviso under the heading 
``Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research'' in the Department of 
Education Appropriations Act, 2006, relating to alternative

[[Page 121 STAT. 179]]

financing programs under section 4(b)(2)(D) of the Assistive Technology 
Act of 1998 shall not apply to funds appropriated by the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007.
    Sec. 6608. From the amounts made available by the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as 
amended by Public Law 110-5) for administrative expenses of the 
Department of Education, $500,000 are rescinded: Provided, That such 
reduction shall not apply to funds available to the Office for Civil 
Rights and the Office of the Inspector General.
    Sec. 6609. Notwithstanding sections 20639 and 20640 of the 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007, as amended by section 2 of 
the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (Public Law 110-
5), the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service may transfer an amount of not more than $1,360,000 
from the account under the heading ``National and Community Service 
Programs, Operating Expenses'' under the heading ``Corporation for 
National and Community Service'', to the account under the heading 
``Salaries and Expenses'' under the heading ``Corporation for National 
and Community Service''.
    Sec. 6610. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  (a) Section 1310.12(a) of 
title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, shall take effect 30 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Deadline. Motor vehicles. Safety standards.>>  Not 
later than 60 days after the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration of the Department of Transportation submits its study on 
occupant protection on Head Start transit vehicles (related to 
Government Accountability Office report GAO-06-767R), the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall review and shall revise as necessary the 
allowable alternate vehicle standards described in that part 1310 (or 
any corresponding similar regulation or ruling) relating to allowable 
alternate vehicles used to transport children for a Head Start program. 
In making any such revision, the Secretary shall revise the standards to 
be consistent with the findings contained in such study, including 
making a determination on the exemption of such a vehicle from Federal 
seat spacing requirements, and Federal supporting seating requirements 
related to compartmentalization, if such vehicle meets all other 
applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards, including standards 
for seating systems, occupant crash protection, seat belt assemblies, 
and child restraint anchorage systems consistent with that part 1310 (or 
any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

    (2) Notwithstanding subsection (a), until such date as the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services completes the review and any necessary 
revision specified in paragraph (1), the provisions of section 
1310.12(a) relating to Federal seat spacing requirements, and Federal 
supporting seating requirements related to compartmentalization, for 
allowable alternate vehicles used to transport children for a Head Start 
program, shall not apply to such a vehicle if such vehicle meets all 
other applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards, as described in 
paragraph (1).
    Sec. 6611. (a)(1) Section 3(37)(G) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(37)(G)) (as amended by section 
1106(a) of the Pension Protection Act of 2006) is amended--
            (A) in clause (i)(II)(aa), by striking ``for each of the 3 
        plan years immediately before the date of the enactment of the 
        Pension Protection Act of 2006,'' and inserting ``for each of 
        the 3 plan years immediately preceding the first plan year

[[Page 121 STAT. 180]]

        for which the election under this paragraph is effective with 
        respect to the plan,'';
            (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``starting with the first 
        plan year ending after the date of the enactment of the Pension 
        Protection Act of 2006'' and inserting ``starting with any plan 
        year beginning on or after January 1, 1999, and ending before 
        January 1, 2008, as designated by the plan in the election made 
        under clause (i)(II)''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:

    ``(vii) For purposes of this Act and the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, a plan making an election under this subparagraph shall be treated 
as maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement if a 
collective bargaining agreement, expressly or otherwise, provides for or 
permits employer contributions to the plan by one or more employers that 
are signatory to such agreement, or participation in the plan by one or 
more employees of an employer that is signatory to such agreement, 
regardless of whether the plan was created, established, or maintained 
for such employees by virtue of another document that is not a 
collective bargaining agreement.''.
    (2) Paragraph (6) of section 414(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (relating to election with regard to multiemployer status) (as 
amended by section 1106(b) of the Pension Protection Act of 
2006) <<NOTE: 26 USC 414.>>  is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I), by striking ``for each of 
        the 3 plan years immediately before the date of enactment of the 
        Pension Protection Act of 2006,'' and inserting ``for each of 
        the 3 plan years immediately preceding the first plan year for 
        which the election under this paragraph is effective with 
        respect to the plan,'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``starting with the 
        first plan year ending after the date of the enactment of the 
        Pension Protection Act of 2006'' and inserting ``starting with 
        any plan year beginning on or after January 1, 1999, and ending 
        before January 1, 2008, as designated by the plan in the 
        election made under subparagraph (A)(ii)''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Maintenance under collective bargaining 
                agreement.--For purposes of this title and the Employee 
                Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, a plan making an 
                election under this paragraph shall be treated as 
                maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement 
                if a collective bargaining agreement, expressly or 
                otherwise, provides for or permits employer 
                contributions to the plan by one or more employers that 
                are signatory to such agreement, or participation in the 
                plan by one or more employees of an employer that is 
                signatory to such agreement, regardless of whether the 
                plan was created, established, or maintained for such 
                employees by virtue of another document that is not a 
                collective bargaining agreement.''.

    (b)(1) Clause (vi) of section 3(37)(G) of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (as amended by section 1106(a) of the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006) <<NOTE: 29 USC 1002.>>  is amended by 
striking ``if it is a plan--'' and all that follows and inserting the 
following: ``if it is a plan sponsored by an organization which is 
described in section 501(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 


[[Page 121 STAT. 181]]

exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code and which was 
established in Chicago, Illinois, on August 12, 1881.''.
    (2) Subparagraph (E) of section 414(f)(6) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (as amended by section 1106(b) of the Pension Protection 
Act of 2006) <<NOTE: 26 USC 414.>>  is amended by striking ``if it is a 
plan--'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``if it is a 
plan sponsored by an organization which is described in section 
501(c)(5) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) and which was 
established in Chicago, Illinois, on August 12, 1881.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 414 note.>>  The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in section 1106 of the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006.

    Sec. 6612. (a) Subclause (III) of section 420(f)(2)(E)(i) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 420.>>  is amended by 
striking ``subsection (c)(2)(E)(ii)(II)'' and inserting ``subsection 
(c)(3)(E)(ii)(II)''.

    (b) Section 420(e)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended by striking ``funding shortfall'' and inserting ``funding 
target''.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 420 note.>>  The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the provisions of 
the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to which they relate.

    Sec. 6613. (a) Subparagraph (A) of section 420(c)(3) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``transfer.'' and inserting 
``transfer or, in the case of a transfer which involves a plan 
maintained by an employer described in subsection (f)(2)(E)(i)(III), if 
the plan meets the requirements of subsection (f)(2)(D)(i)(II).''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 26 USC 420 note.>>  The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply to transfers after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

    Sec. 6614. (a) Section 402(i)(1) of the Pension Protection Act of 
2006 <<NOTE: 26 USC 430 note.>>  is amended by striking ``December 28, 
2007'' and inserting ``January 1, 2008''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 430 note.>>  The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in section 402 of the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006.

    Sec. 6615. (a) Section 402(a)(2) of the Pension Protection Act of 
2006 is amended by inserting ``and by using, in determining the funding 
target for each of the 10 plan years during such period, an interest 
rate of 8.25 percent (rather than the segment rates calculated on the 
basis of the corporate bond yield curve)'' after ``such plan year''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 26 USC 430 note.>>  The amendment made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the provisions of 
the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to which such amendment relates.

                                CHAPTER 7

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

       Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For payment to Gloria W. Norwood, widow of Charles W. Norwood, Jr., 
late a Representative from the State of Georgia, $165,200.

[[Page 121 STAT. 182]]

    For payment to James McDonald, Jr., widower of Juanita Millender-
McDonald, late a Representative from the State of California, $165,200.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6701. <<NOTE: Establishment. 2 USC 1806.>>  (a) There is 
established in the Office of the Architect of the Capitol the position 
of Chief Executive Officer for Visitor Services (in this section 
referred to as the ``Chief Executive Officer''), who shall be appointed 
by the Architect of the Capitol.

    (b) The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the 
operation and management of the Capitol Visitor Center, subject to the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol. In carrying out these 
responsibilities, the Chief Executive Officer shall report directly to 
the Architect of the Capitol and shall be subject to policy review and 
oversight by the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and 
the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
    (c) The Chief Executive Officer shall be paid at an annual rate 
equal to the annual rate of pay for the Chief Operating Officer of the 
Office of the Architect of the Capitol.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2007 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                                CHAPTER 8

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER


                           TECHNICAL AMENDMENT


    Sec. 6801. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
subsection (c) under the heading ``Assistance for the Independent States 
of the Former Soviet Union'' in Public Law 109-102, shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 
(Public Law 109-289, division B) as amended by Public Laws 109-369, 109-
383, and 110-5.
    (b) Section 534(k) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) 
is <<NOTE: 119 Stat. 2208.>>  amended, in the second proviso, by 
inserting after ``subsection (b) of that section'' the following: ``and 
the requirement that a majority of the members of the board of directors 
be United States citizens provided in subsection (d)(3)(B) of that 
section''.

    (c) Subject to section 101(c)(2) of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5), the amount of funds appropriated for ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' pursuant to such Resolution shall be construed to be 
the total of the amount appropriated for such program by section 20401 
of that Resolution and the amount made available for such program by 
section 591 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-102) which is made 
applicable to the fiscal year 2007 by the provisions of such Resolution.
    Sec. 6802. Notwithstanding any provision of title I of division B of 
the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 
109-289, as amended by Public Laws 109-369, 109-383, and 110-5), the 
dollar amount limitation of the first proviso under the heading, 
``Administration of Foreign Affairs, Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
in title IV of the Science, State, Justice,

[[Page 121 STAT. 183]]

Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-
108; 119 Stat. 2319) shall not apply to funds appropriated under such 
heading for fiscal year 2007.

                                CHAPTER 9

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight


                          Salaries and Expenses


                      (including transfer of funds)


    For an additional amount to carry out the Federal Housing 
Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, $6,150,000, to 
remain available until expended, to be derived from the Federal Housing 
Enterprises Oversight Fund and to be subject to the same terms and 
conditions pertaining to funds provided under this heading in Public Law 
109-115: Provided, That not to exceed the total amount provided for 
these activities for fiscal year 2007 shall be available from the 
general fund of the Treasury to the extent necessary to incur 
obligations and make expenditures pending the receipt of collections to 
the Fund: Provided further, That the general fund amount shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at not 
more than $0.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6901. <<NOTE: Mexico. Motor carrier. 49 USC 13902 note.>>  (a) 
Hereafter, funds limited or appropriated for the Department of 
Transportation may be obligated or expended to grant authority to a 
Mexico-domiciled motor carrier to operate beyond United States 
municipalities and commercial zones on the United States-Mexico border 
only to the extent that--
            (1) granting such authority is first tested as part of a 
        pilot program;
            (2) such pilot program complies with the requirements of 
        section 350 of Public Law 107-87 and the requirements of section 
        31315(c) of title 49, United States Code, related to pilot 
        programs; and
            (3) simultaneous and comparable authority to operate within 
        Mexico is made available to motor carriers domiciled in the 
        United States.

    (b) Prior to the initiation of the pilot program described in 
subsection (a) in any fiscal year--
            (1) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Transportation shall transmit to Congress and the 
        Secretary of Transportation a report verifying compliance with 
        each of the requirements of subsection (a) of section 350 of 
        Public Law 107-87, including whether the Secretary of 
        Transportation has established sufficient mechanisms to apply 
        Federal motor carrier safety laws and regulations to motor 
        carriers domiciled in Mexico that are granted authority to 
        operate beyond the United States municipalities and commercial 
        zones on the United States-Mexico border and to ensure 
        compliance with such laws and regulations; and
            (2) the Secretary of Transportation shall--

[[Page 121 STAT. 184]]

                    (A) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  take such action as may be 
                necessary to address any issues raised in the report of 
                the Inspector General under subsection (b)(1) and submit 
                a report to Congress detailing such actions; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  
                publish in the Federal Register, and provide sufficient 
                opportunity for public notice and comment--
                          (i) comprehensive data and information on the 
                      pre-authorization safety audits conducted before 
                      and after the date of enactment of this Act of 
                      motor carriers domiciled in Mexico that are 
                      granted authority to operate beyond the United 
                      States municipalities and commercial zones on the 
                      United States-Mexico border;
                          (ii) specific measures to be required to 
                      protect the health and safety of the public, 
                      including enforcement measures and penalties for 
                      noncompliance;
                          (iii) specific measures to be required to 
                      ensure compliance with section 391.11(b)(2) and 
                      section 365.501(b) of title 49, Code of Federal 
                      Regulations;
                          (iv) specific standards to be used to evaluate 
                      the pilot program and compare any change in the 
                      level of motor carrier safety as a result of the 
                      pilot program; and
                          (v) a list of Federal motor carrier safety 
                      laws and regulations, including the commercial 
                      drivers license requirements, for which the 
                      Secretary of Transportation will accept compliance 
                      with a corresponding Mexican law or regulation as 
                      the equivalent to compliance with the United 
                      States law or regulation, including for each law 
                      or regulation an analysis as to how the 
                      corresponding United States and Mexican laws and 
                      regulations differ.

    (c) <<NOTE: Reports. Deadlines.>>  During and following the pilot 
program described in subsection (a), the Inspector General of the 
Department of Transportation shall monitor and review the conduct of the 
pilot program and submit to Congress and the Secretary of Transportation 
an interim report, 6 months after the commencement of the pilot program, 
and a final report, within 60 days after the conclusion of the pilot 
program. Such reports shall address whether--
            (1) the Secretary of Transportation has established 
        sufficient mechanisms to determine whether the pilot program is 
        having any adverse effects on motor carrier safety;
            (2) Federal and State monitoring and enforcement activities 
        are sufficient to ensure that participants in the pilot program 
        are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; and
            (3) the pilot program consists of a representative and 
        adequate sample of Mexico-domiciled carriers likely to engage in 
        cross-border operations beyond United States municipalities and 
        commercial zones on the United States-Mexico border.

    (d) In the event that the Secretary of Transportation in any fiscal 
year seeks to grant operating authority for the purpose of initiating 
cross-border operations beyond United States municipalities and 
commercial zones on the United States-Mexico border either with Mexico-
domiciled motor coaches or Mexico-domiciled commercial motor vehicles 
carrying placardable quantities of hazardous materials, such activities 
shall be initiated only after the conclusion of a separate pilot program 
limited to vehicles of the

[[Page 121 STAT. 185]]

pertinent type. Each such separate pilot program shall follow the same 
requirements and processes stipulated under subsections (a) through (c) 
of this section and shall be planned, conducted and evaluated in concert 
with the Department of Homeland Security or its Inspector General, as 
appropriate, so as to address any and all security concerns associated 
with such cross-border operations.
    Sec. 6902. Funds provided for the ``National Transportation Safety 
Board, Salaries and Expenses'' in section 21031 of the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as 
amended by Public Law 110-5) include amounts necessary to make lease 
payments due in fiscal year 2007 only, on an obligation incurred in 2001 
under a capital lease.
    Sec. 6903. Section 21033 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2007 (division B of Public Law 109-289, as amended by Public 
Law 110-5) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 51.>>  is amended by adding after the second 
proviso: ``: Provided further, That paragraph (2) under such heading in 
Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2441) shall be funded at $149,300,000, but 
additional section 8 tenant protection rental assistance costs may be 
funded in 2007 by using unobligated balances, notwithstanding the 
purposes for which such amounts were appropriated, including recaptures 
and carryover, remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development under this heading, the heading `Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing', the heading `Housing Certificate 
Fund', and the heading `Project-Based Rental Assistance' for fiscal year 
2006 and prior fiscal years: Provided further, That paragraph (3) under 
such heading in Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2441) shall be funded at 
$47,500,000: Provided further, That paragraph (4) under such heading in 
Public Law 109-115 (119 Stat. 2441) shall be funded at $5,900,000: 
Provided further, That paragraph (5) under such heading in Public Law 
109-115 (119 Stat. 2441) shall be funded at $1,281,100,000, of which 
$1,251,100,000 shall be allocated for the calendar year 2007 funding 
cycle on a pro rata basis to public housing agencies based on the amount 
public housing agencies were eligible to receive in calendar year 2006, 
and of which up to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to 
allocate to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
administer their section 8 programs, with up to $20,000,000 to be for 
fees associated with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance''.

    Sec. 6904. Section 232(b) of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-377) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f note.>>  is amended 
to read as follows:

    ``(b) Applicability.--In the case of any dwelling unit that, upon 
the date of the enactment of this Act, is assisted under a housing 
assistance payment contract under section 8(o)(13) as in effect before 
such enactment, or under section 8(d)(2) of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(d)(2)) as in effect before the enactment of 
the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998 (title V of 
Public Law 105-276), assistance may be renewed or extended under such 
section 8(o)(13), as amended by subsection (a), provided that the 
initial contract term and rent of such renewed or extended assistance 
shall be determined pursuant to subparagraphs (F) and (H), and 
subparagraphs (C) and (D) of such section shall not apply to such 
extensions or renewals.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 186]]

   TITLE VII--ELIMINATION OF SCHIP SHORTFALL AND OTHER HEALTH MATTERS

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

   Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services State Children's Health 
                             Insurance Fund

    For an additional amount to provide additional allotments to 
remaining shortfall States under section 2104(h)(4) of the Social 
Security Act, as inserted by section 6001, such sums as may be 
necessary, but not to exceed $650,000,000 for fiscal year 2007, to 
remain available until expended.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 7001. (a) Elimination of Remainder of SCHIP Funding Shortfalls, 
Tiered Match, and Other Limitation on Expenditures.--Section 2104(h) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(h)), as added by section 
201(a) of the National Institutes of Health Reform Act of 2006 (Public 
Law 109-482), is amended--
            (1) in the heading for paragraph (2), by striking 
        ``remainder of reduction'' and inserting ``part''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Additional amounts to eliminate remainder of fiscal 
        year 2007 funding shortfalls.--
                    ``(A) In general.--From the amounts provided in 
                advance in appropriations Acts, the Secretary shall 
                allot to each remaining shortfall State described in 
                subparagraph (B) such amount as the Secretary determines 
                will eliminate the estimated shortfall described in such 
                subparagraph for the State for fiscal year 2007.
                    ``(B) Remaining shortfall state described.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), a remaining shortfall 
                State is a State with a State child health plan approved 
                under this title for which the Secretary estimates, on 
                the basis of the most recent data available to the 
                Secretary as of the date of the enactment of this 
                paragraph, that the projected Federal expenditures under 
                such plan for the State for fiscal year 2007 will exceed 
                the sum of--
                          ``(i) the amount of the State's allotments for 
                      each of fiscal years 2005 and 2006 that will not 
                      be expended by the end of fiscal year 2006;
                          ``(ii) the amount of the State's allotment for 
                      fiscal year 2007; and
                          ``(iii) the amounts, if any, that are to be 
                      redistributed to the State during fiscal year 2007 
                      in accordance with paragraphs (1) and (2).''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 2104(h) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397dd(h)) (as so added), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``subject to paragraph 
        (4)(B) and'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``subject to paragraph 
        (4)(B) and'';

[[Page 121 STAT. 187]]

            (3) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking ``and (3)'' and 
        inserting ``(3), and (4)''; and
            (4) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                          (i) by inserting ``or allotted'' after 
                      ``redistributed''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``or allotments'' after 
                      ``redistributions''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and (3)'' and inserting ``(3), and 
                (4)''.

    Sec. 7002. (a) Prohibition.--
            (1) Limitation on secretarial authority.--Notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services shall not, prior to the date that is 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, take any action (through 
        promulgation of regulation, issuance of regulatory guidance, or 
        other administrative action) to--
                    (A) finalize or otherwise implement provisions 
                contained in the proposed rule published on January 18, 
                2007, on pages 2236 through 2248 of volume 72, Federal 
                Register (relating to parts 433, 447, and 457 of title 
                42, Code of Federal Regulations);
                    (B) promulgate or implement any rule or provisions 
                similar to the provisions described in subparagraph (A) 
                pertaining to the Medicaid program established under 
                title XIX of the Social Security Act or the State 
                Children's Health Insurance Program established under 
                title XXI of such Act; or
                    (C) promulgate or implement any rule or provisions 
                restricting payments for graduate medical education 
                under the Medicaid program.
            (2) Continuation of other secretarial authority.--The 
        Secretary of Health and Human Service shall not be prohibited 
        during the period described in paragraph (1) from taking any 
        action (through promulgation of regulation, issuance of 
        regulatory guidance, or other administrative action) to enforce 
        a provision of law in effect as of the date of enactment of this 
        Act with respect to the Medicaid program or the State Children's 
        Health Insurance Program, or to promulgate or implement a new 
        rule or provision during such period with respect to such 
        programs, other than a rule or provision described in paragraph 
        (1) and subject to the prohibition set forth in that paragraph.

    (b) Requirement for Use of Tamper-Resistant Prescription Pads Under 
the Medicaid Program.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1903(i) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (21);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (22) and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (22) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(23) with respect to amounts expended for medical 
        assistance for covered outpatient drugs (as defined in section 
        1927(k)(2)) for which the prescription was executed in written 
        (and non-electronic) form unless the prescription was executed 
        on a tamper-resistant pad.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 188]]

            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396b note.>>  Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by paragraph (1) shall apply to prescriptions 
        executed after September 30, 2007.

    (c) Extension of Certain Pharmacy Plus Waivers.--
            (1) Authority to continue to operate waivers.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any State that is 
        operating a Pharmacy Plus waiver described in paragraph (2) 
        which would otherwise expire on June 30, 2007, may elect to 
        continue to operate the waiver through December 31, 2009, and if 
        a State elects to continue to operate such a waiver, the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services shall approve the 
        continuation of the waiver through December 31, 2009.
            (2) Pharmacy plus waiver described.--For purposes of 
        paragraph (1), a Pharmacy Plus waiver described in this 
        paragraph is a waiver approved by the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services under the authority of section 1115 of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1315) that provides coverage for 
        prescription drugs for individuals who have attained age 65 and 
        whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of the poverty 
        line (as defined in section 2110(c)(5) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1397jj(c)(5))).

              TITLE VIII--FAIR MINIMUM WAGE AND TAX RELIEF

 Subtitle <<NOTE: Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. 29 USC 201 note.>>  A--
Fair Minimum Wage

SEC. 8101. SHORT TITLE.

     This subtitle may be cited as the ``Fair Minimum Wage Act of 
2007''.

SEC. 8102. MINIMUM WAGE.

    (a) In General.--Section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) except as otherwise provided in this section, not less 
        than--
                    ``(A) $5.85 an hour, beginning on the 60th day after 
                the date of enactment of the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 
                2007;
                    ``(B) $6.55 an hour, beginning 12 months after that 
                60th day; and
                    ``(C) $7.25 an hour, beginning 24 months after that 
                60th day;''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 29 USC 206 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 8103. APPLICABILITY OF MINIMUM WAGE TO AMERICAN SAMOA AND THE 
            COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 29 USC 206 note.>>  In General.--Section 6 of the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206) shall apply to American 
Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

    (b) Transition.--Notwithstanding subsection (a)--
            (1) the minimum wage applicable to the Commonwealth of the 
        Northern Mariana Islands under section 6(a)(1) of the

[[Page 121 STAT. 189]]

        Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) shall 
        be--
                    (A) $3.55 an hour, beginning on the 60th day after 
                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) increased by $0.50 an hour (or such lesser 
                amount as may be necessary to equal the minimum wage 
                under section 6(a)(1) of such Act), beginning 1 year 
                after the date of enactment of this Act and each year 
                thereafter until the minimum wage applicable to the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands under this 
                paragraph is equal to the minimum wage set forth in such 
                section; and
            (2) the minimum wage applicable to American Samoa under 
        section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 
        U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) shall be--
                    (A) the applicable wage rate in effect for each 
                industry and classification under section 697 of title 
                29, Code of Federal Regulations, on the date of 
                enactment of this Act;
                    (B) increased by $0.50 an hour, beginning on the 
                60th day after the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (C) increased by $0.50 an hour (or such lesser 
                amount as may be necessary to equal the minimum wage 
                under section 6(a)(1) of such Act), beginning 1 year 
                after the date of enactment of this Act and each year 
                thereafter until the minimum wage applicable to American 
                Samoa under this paragraph is equal to the minimum wage 
                set forth in such section.

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking sections 5 and 8; <<NOTE: 29 USC 
                205, 208.>>  and
                    (B) in section 6(a), <<NOTE: 29 USC 206.>>  by 
                striking paragraph (3) and redesignating paragraphs (4) 
                and (5) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively.
            (2) <<NOTE: 29 USC 206 note.>>  Effective date.--The 
        amendments made by this subsection shall take effect 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8104. STUDY ON PROJECTED IMPACT.

    (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Study.--Beginning on the date that is 
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor 
shall, through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, conduct a study to--
            (1) assess the impact of the wage increases required by this 
        Act through such date; and
            (2) project the impact of any further wage increase,

on living standards and rates of employment in American Samoa and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (b) Report.--Not later than the date that is 8 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall transmit to 
Congress a report on the findings of the study required by subsection 
(a).

[[Page 121 STAT. 190]]

Subtitle <<NOTE: Small Business and Work Opportunity Tax Act of 2007.>>  
B--Small Business Tax Incentives

SEC. 8201. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF CODE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>>  Short Title.--This subtitle may be 
cited as the ``Small Business and Work Opportunity Tax Act of 2007''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 et seq.>>  Amendment of 1986 Code.--Except as 
otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this subtitle an amendment or 
repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section 
or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

    (c) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this subtitle is as 
follows:

Sec. 8201. Short title; amendment of Code; table of contents.

              Part 1--Small Business Tax Relief Provisions

                      subpart a--general provisions

Sec. 8211. Extension and modification of work opportunity tax credit.
Sec. 8212. Extension and increase of expensing for small business.
Sec. 8213. Determination of credit for certain taxes paid with respect 
           to employee cash tips.
Sec. 8214. Waiver of individual and corporate alternative minimum tax 
           limits on work opportunity credit and credit for taxes paid 
           with respect to employee cash tips.
Sec. 8215. Family business tax simplification.
             subpart b--gulf opportunity zone tax incentives

Sec. 8221. Extension of increased expensing for qualified section 179 
           Gulf Opportunity Zone property.
Sec. 8222. Extension and expansion of low-income housing credit rules 
           for buildings in the GO Zones.
Sec. 8223. Special tax-exempt bond financing rule for repairs and 
           reconstructions of residences in the GO Zones.
Sec. 8224. GAO study of practices employed by State and local 
           governments in allocating and utilizing tax incentives 
           provided pursuant to the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005.
                   subpart c--subchapter s provisions

Sec. 8231. Capital gain of S corporation not treated as passive 
           investment income.
Sec. 8232. Treatment of bank director shares.
Sec. 8233. Special rule for bank required to change from the reserve 
           method of accounting on becoming S corporation.
Sec. 8234. Treatment of the sale of interest in a qualified subchapter S 
           subsidiary.
Sec. 8235. Elimination of all earnings and profits attributable to pre-
           1983 years for certain corporations.
Sec. 8236. Deductibility of interest expense on indebtedness incurred by 
           an electing small business trust to acquire S corporation 
           stock.

                       Part 2--Revenue Provisions

Sec. 8241. Increase in age of children whose unearned income is taxed as 
           if parent's income.
Sec. 8242. Suspension of certain penalties and interest.
Sec. 8243. Modification of collection due process procedures for 
           employment tax liabilities.
Sec. 8244. Permanent extension of IRS user fees.
Sec. 8245. Increase in penalty for bad checks and money orders.
Sec. 8246. Understatement of taxpayer liability by return preparers.
Sec. 8247. Penalty for filing erroneous refund claims.
Sec. 8248. Time for payment of corporate estimated taxes.

[[Page 121 STAT. 191]]

              PART 1--SMALL BUSINESS TAX RELIEF PROVISIONS

                      Subpart A--General Provisions

SEC. 8211. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF WORK OPPORTUNITY TAX CREDIT.

    (a) Extension.--Section 51(c)(4)(B) <<NOTE: 26 USC 51.>>  (relating 
to termination) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2007'' and 
inserting ``August 31, 2011''.

    (b) Increase in Maximum Age for Designated Community Residents.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (5) of section 51(d) is amended 
        to read as follows:
            ``(5) Designated community residents.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `designated community 
                resident' means any individual who is certified by the 
                designated local agency--
                          ``(i) as having attained age 18 but not age 40 
                      on the hiring date, and
                          ``(ii) as having his principal place of abode 
                      within an empowerment zone, enterprise community, 
                      renewal community, or rural renewal county.
                    ``(B) Individual must continue to reside in zone, 
                community, or county.--In the case of a designated 
                community resident, the term `qualified wages' shall not 
                include wages paid or incurred for services performed 
                while the individual's principal place of abode is 
                outside an empowerment zone, enterprise community, 
                renewal community, or rural renewal county.
                    ``(C) Rural renewal county.--For purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `rural renewal county' means any 
                county which--
                          ``(i) is outside a metropolitan statistical 
                      area (defined as such by the Office of Management 
                      and Budget), and
                          ``(ii) during the 5-year periods 1990 through 
                      1994 and 1995 through 1999 had a net population 
                      loss.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Subparagraph (D) of section 
        51(d)(1) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) a designated community resident,''.

    (c) Clarification of Treatment of Individuals Under Individual Work 
Plans.--Subparagraph (B) of section 51(d)(6) (relating to vocational 
rehabilitation referral) is amended by striking ``or'' at the end of 
clause (i), by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and 
inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the end the following new clause:
                          ``(iii) an individual work plan developed and 
                      implemented by an employment network pursuant to 
                      subsection (g) of section 1148 of the Social 
                      Security Act with respect to which the 
                      requirements of such subsection are met.''.

    (d) Treatment of Disabled Veterans Under the Work Opportunity Tax 
Credit.--
            (1) Disabled veterans treated as members of targeted 
        group.--

[[Page 121 STAT. 192]]

                    (A) In general.--Subparagraph (A) of section 
                51(d)(3) (relating to qualified veteran) is amended by 
                striking ``agency as being a member of a family'' and 
                all that follows and inserting ``agency as--
                          ``(i) being a member of a family receiving 
                      assistance under a food stamp program under the 
                      Food Stamp Act of 1977 for at least a 3-month 
                      period ending during the 12-month period ending on 
                      the hiring date, or
                          ``(ii) entitled to compensation for a service-
                      connected disability, and--
                                    ``(I) having a hiring date which is 
                                not more that 1 year after having been 
                                discharged or released from active duty 
                                in the Armed Forces of the United 
                                States, or
                                    ``(II) having aggregate periods of 
                                unemployment during the 1-year period 
                                ending on the hiring date which equal or 
                                exceed 6 months.''.
                    (B) Definitions.--Paragraph (3) of section 51(d) is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Other definitions.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), the terms `compensation' and `service-
                connected' have the meanings given such terms under 
                section 101 of title 38, United States Code.''.
            (2) Increase in amount of wages taken into account for 
        disabled veterans.--Paragraph (3) of section 51(b) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``($12,000 per year in the case of 
                any individual who is a qualified veteran by reason of 
                subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii))'' before the period at the 
                end, and
                    (B) by striking ``Only first $6,000 of'' in the 
                heading and inserting ``Limitation on''.

    (e) <<NOTE: 26 USC 51 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to individuals who begin work for the 
employer after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8212. EXTENSION AND INCREASE OF EXPENSING FOR SMALL BUSINESS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(5), (c)(2), and 
(d)(1)(A)(ii) of section 179 <<NOTE: 26 USC 179.>>  (relating to 
election to expense certain depreciable business assets) are each 
amended by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''.

    (b) Increase in Limitations.--Subsection (b) of section 179 is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``$100,000 in the case of taxable years 
        beginning after 2002'' in paragraph (1) and inserting ``$125,000 
        in the case of taxable years beginning after 2006'', and
            (2) by striking ``$400,000 in the case of taxable years 
        beginning after 2002'' in paragraph (2) and inserting ``$500,000 
        in the case of taxable years beginning after 2006''.

    (c) Inflation Adjustment.--Subparagraph (A) of section 179(b)(5) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``2003'' and inserting ``2007'',
            (2) by striking ``$100,000 and $400,000'' and inserting 
        ``$125,000 and $500,000'', and
            (3) by striking ``2002'' in clause (ii) and inserting 
        ``2006''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 193]]

    (d) <<NOTE: 26 USC 179 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2006.

SEC. 8213. DETERMINATION OF CREDIT FOR CERTAIN TAXES PAID WITH RESPECT 
            TO EMPLOYEE CASH TIPS.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 45B(b)(1) <<NOTE: 26 
USC 45B.>>  is amended by inserting ``as in effect on January 1, 2007, 
and'' before ``determined without regard to''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 45B note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to tips received for services performed 
after December 31, 2006.

SEC. 8214. WAIVER OF INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX 
            LIMITS ON WORK OPPORTUNITY CREDIT AND CREDIT FOR TAXES PAID 
            WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEE CASH TIPS.

    (a) Allowance Against Alternative Minimum Tax.--Subparagraph (B) of 
section 38(c)(4) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of clause 
(i), by inserting a comma at the end of clause (ii), and by adding at 
the end the following new clauses:
                          ``(iii) the credit determined under section 
                      45B, and
                          ``(iv) the credit determined under section 
                      51.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 38 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall apply to credits determined under sections 45B and 
51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 in taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2006, and to carrybacks of such credits.

SEC. 8215. FAMILY BUSINESS TAX SIMPLIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 761 (defining terms for purposes of 
partnerships) is amended by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection 
(g) and by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Qualified Joint Venture.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a qualified joint venture 
        conducted by a husband and wife who file a joint return for the 
        taxable year, for purposes of this title--
                    ``(A) such joint venture shall not be treated as a 
                partnership,
                    ``(B) all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, 
                and credit shall be divided between the spouses in 
                accordance with their respective interests in the 
                venture, and
                    ``(C) each spouse shall take into account such 
                spouse's respective share of such items as if they were 
                attributable to a trade or business conducted by such 
                spouse as a sole proprietor.
            ``(2) Qualified joint venture.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1), the term `qualified joint venture' means any joint venture 
        involving the conduct of a trade or business if--
                    ``(A) the only members of such joint venture are a 
                husband and wife,
                    ``(B) both spouses materially participate (within 
                the meaning of section 469(h) without regard to 
                paragraph (5) thereof) in such trade or business, and
                    ``(C) both spouses elect the application of this 
                subsection.''.

    (b) Net Earnings From Self-Employment.--
            (1) Subsection (a) of section 1402 (defining net earnings 
        from self-employment) is amended by striking ``, and'' at the

[[Page 121 STAT. 194]]

        end of paragraph (15) and inserting a semicolon, by striking the 
        period at the end of paragraph (16) and inserting ``; and'', and 
        by inserting after paragraph (16) the following new paragraph:
            ``(17) notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this 
        subsection, each spouse's share of income or loss from a 
        qualified joint venture shall be taken into account as provided 
        in section 761(f) in determining net earnings from self-
        employment of such spouse.''.
            (2) Subsection (a) of section 211 of the Social Security 
        Act <<NOTE: 42 USC 411.>>  (defining net earnings from self-
        employment) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of 
        paragraph (14), by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
        (15) and inserting ``; and'', and by inserting after paragraph 
        (15) the following new paragraph:
            ``(16) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this 
        subsection, each spouse's share of income or loss from a 
        qualified joint venture shall be taken into account as provided 
        in section 761(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 in 
        determining net earnings from self-employment of such spouse.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1761 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2006.

             Subpart B--Gulf Opportunity Zone Tax Incentives

SEC. 8221. EXTENSION OF INCREASED EXPENSING FOR QUALIFIED SECTION 179 
            GULF OPPORTUNITY ZONE PROPERTY.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1400N(e) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1400N.>>  (relating 
to qualified section 179 Gulf Opportunity Zone property) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``this subsection, the term'' and inserting:
                ``this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term'', and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Extension for certain property.--In the case 
                of property substantially all of the use of which is in 
                one or more specified portions of the GO Zone (as 
                defined by subsection (d)(6)), such term shall include 
                section 179 property (as so defined) which is described 
                in subsection (d)(2), determined--
                          ``(i) without regard to subsection (d)(6), and
                          ``(ii) by substituting `2008' for `2007' in 
                      subparagraph (A)(v) thereof.''.

SEC. 8222. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF LOW-INCOME HOUSING CREDIT RULES 
            FOR BUILDINGS IN THE GO ZONES.

    (a) Time for Making Low-Income Housing Credit Allocations.--
Subsection (c) of section 1400N (relating to low-income housing credit) 
is amended by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6) and by 
inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Time for making low-income housing credit 
        allocations.--Section 42(h)(1)(B) shall not apply to an 
        allocation of housing credit dollar amount to a building located 
        in the Gulf Opportunity Zone, the Rita GO Zone, or the Wilma GO 
        Zone, if such allocation is made in 2006, 2007, or 2008, and 
        such building is placed in service before January 1, 2011.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 195]]

    (b) Extension of Period for Treating GO Zones as Difficult 
Development Areas.--
            (1) In general.--Subparagraph (A) of section 1400N(c)(3) is 
        amended by striking ``2006, 2007, or 2008'' and inserting ``the 
        period beginning on January 1, 2006, and ending on December 31, 
        2010''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Clause (ii) of section 
        1400N(c)(3)(B) is amended by striking ``such period'' and 
        inserting ``the period described in subparagraph (A)''.

    (c) Community Development Block Grants Not Taken Into Account in 
Determining if Buildings Are Federally Subsidized.--Subsection (c) of 
section 1400N (relating to low-income housing credit), as amended by 
this Act, is amended by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7) and 
by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Community development block grants not taken into 
        account in determining if buildings are federally subsidized.--
        For purpose of applying section 42(i)(2)(D) to any building 
        which is placed in service in the Gulf Opportunity Zone, the 
        Rita GO Zone, or the Wilma GO Zone during the period beginning 
        on January 1, 2006, and ending on December 31, 2010, a loan 
        shall not be treated as a below market Federal loan solely by 
        reason of any assistance provided under section 106, 107, or 108 
        of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 by reason 
        of section 122 of such Act or any provision of the Department of 
        Defense Appropriations Act, 2006, or the Emergency Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and 
        Hurricane Recovery, 2006.''.

SEC. 8223. SPECIAL TAX-EXEMPT BOND FINANCING RULE FOR REPAIRS AND 
            RECONSTRUCTIONS OF RESIDENCES IN THE GO ZONES.

    Subsection (a) of section 1400N (relating to tax-exempt bond 
financing) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Special rule for repairs and reconstructions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of section 143 and 
                this subsection, any qualified GO Zone repair or 
                reconstruction shall be treated as a qualified 
                rehabilitation.
                    ``(B) Qualified go zone repair or reconstruction.--
                For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `qualified GO 
                Zone repair or reconstruction' means any repair of 
                damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita, or 
                Hurricane Wilma to a building located in the Gulf 
                Opportunity Zone, the Rita GO Zone, or the Wilma GO Zone 
                (or reconstruction of such building in the case of 
                damage constituting destruction) if the expenditures for 
                such repair or reconstruction are 25 percent or more of 
                the mortgagor's adjusted basis in the residence. For 
                purposes of the preceding sentence, the mortgagor's 
                adjusted basis shall be determined as of the completion 
                of the repair or reconstruction or, if later, the date 
                on which the mortgagor acquires the residence.
                    ``(C) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Termination.--This 
                paragraph shall apply only to owner-financing provided 
                after the date of the enactment of this paragraph and 
                before January 1, 2011.''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 196]]

SEC. 8224. GAO STUDY OF PRACTICES EMPLOYED BY STATE AND LOCAL 
            GOVERNMENTS IN ALLOCATING AND UTILIZING TAX INCENTIVES 
            PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THE GULF OPPORTUNITY ZONE ACT OF 2005.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study of the practices employed by State and local 
governments, and subdivisions thereof, in allocating and utilizing tax 
incentives provided pursuant to the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 
and this Act.
    (b) Submission of Report.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report 
on the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a) and shall 
include therein recommendations (if any) relating to such findings. The 
report shall be submitted to the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Congressional Hearings.--In the case that 
the report submitted under this section includes findings of significant 
fraud, waste or abuse, each Committee specified in subsection (b) shall, 
within 60 days after the date the report is submitted under subsection 
(b), hold a public hearing to review such findings.

                   Subpart C--Subchapter S Provisions

SEC. 8231. CAPITAL GAIN OF S CORPORATION NOT TREATED AS PASSIVE 
            INVESTMENT INCOME.

    (a) In General.--Section 1362(d)(3) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1362.>>  is 
amended by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) and 
inserting the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(B) Gross receipts from the sales of certain 
                assets.--For purposes of this paragraph--
                          ``(i) in the case of dispositions of capital 
                      assets (other than stock and securities), gross 
                      receipts from such dispositions shall be taken 
                      into account only to the extent of the capital 
                      gain net income therefrom, and
                          ``(ii) in the case of sales or exchanges of 
                      stock or securities, gross receipts shall be taken 
                      into account only to the extent of the gains 
                      therefrom.
                    ``(C) Passive investment income defined.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Except as otherwise 
                      provided in this subparagraph, the term `passive 
                      investment income' means gross receipts derived 
                      from royalties, rents, dividends, interest, and 
                      annuities.
                          ``(ii) Exception for interest on notes from 
                      sales of inventory.--The term `passive investment 
                      income' shall not include interest on any 
                      obligation acquired in the ordinary course of the 
                      corporation's trade or business from its sale of 
                      property described in section 1221(a)(1).
                          ``(iii) Treatment of certain lending or 
                      finance companies.--If the S corporation meets the 
                      requirements of section 542(c)(6) for the taxable 
                      year, the term `passive investment income' shall 
                      not include gross receipts for the taxable year 
                      which are derived directly from the active and 
                      regular conduct of a

[[Page 121 STAT. 197]]

                      lending or finance business (as defined in section 
                      542(d)(1)).
                          ``(iv) Treatment of certain dividends.--If an 
                      S corporation holds stock in a C corporation 
                      meeting the requirements of section 1504(a)(2), 
                      the term `passive investment income' shall not 
                      include dividends from such C corporation to the 
                      extent such dividends are attributable to the 
                      earnings and profits of such C corporation derived 
                      from the active conduct of a trade or business.
                          ``(v) Exception for banks, etc.--In the case 
                      of a bank (as defined in section 581) or a 
                      depository institution holding company (as defined 
                      in section 3(w)(1) of the Federal Deposit 
                      Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(1)), the term 
                      `passive investment income' shall not include--
                                    ``(I) interest income earned by such 
                                bank or company, or
                                    ``(II) dividends on assets required 
                                to be held by such bank or company, 
                                including stock in the Federal Reserve 
                                Bank, the Federal Home Loan Bank, or the 
                                Federal Agricultural Mortgage Bank or 
                                participation certificates issued by a 
                                Federal Intermediate Credit Bank.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1362 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8232. TREATMENT OF BANK DIRECTOR SHARES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1361 <<NOTE: 26 USC 1361.>>  (defining S 
corporation) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:

    ``(f) Restricted Bank Director Stock.--
            ``(1) In general.--Restricted bank director stock shall not 
        be taken into account as outstanding stock of the S corporation 
        in applying this subchapter (other than section 1368(f)).
            ``(2) Restricted bank director stock.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `restricted bank director stock' means 
        stock in a bank (as defined in section 581) or a depository 
        institution holding company (as defined in section 3(w)(1) of 
        the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(w)(1)), if 
        such stock--
                    ``(A) is required to be held by an individual under 
                applicable Federal or State law in order to permit such 
                individual to serve as a director, and
                    ``(B) is subject to an agreement with such bank or 
                company (or a corporation which controls (within the 
                meaning of section 368(c)) such bank or company) 
                pursuant to which the holder is required to sell back 
                such stock (at the same price as the individual acquired 
                such stock) upon ceasing to hold the office of director.
            ``(3) Cross reference.--

``For treatment of certain distributions with respect to restricted bank 
           director stock, see section 1368(f).''.

    (b) Distributions.--Section 1368 (relating to distributions) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Restricted Bank Director Stock.--If a director receives a 
distribution (not in part or full payment in exchange for stock)

[[Page 121 STAT. 198]]

from an S corporation with respect to any restricted bank director stock 
(as defined in section 1361(f)), the amount of such distribu- tion--
            ``(1) shall be includible in gross income of the director, 
        and
            ``(2) shall be deductible by the corporation for the taxable 
        year of such corporation in which or with which ends the taxable 
        year in which such amount in included in the gross income of the 
        director.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1361 note.>>  Effective Dates.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006.
            (2) Special rule for treatment as second class of stock.--In 
        the case of any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1996, 
        restricted bank director stock (as defined in section 1361(f) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by this section) 
        shall not be taken into account in determining whether an S 
        corporation has more than 1 class of stock.

SEC. 8233. SPECIAL RULE FOR BANK REQUIRED TO CHANGE FROM THE RESERVE 
            METHOD OF ACCOUNTING ON BECOMING S CORPORATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 1361, as amended by this Act, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Special Rule for Bank Required To Change From the Reserve 
Method of Accounting on Becoming S Corporation.--In the case of a bank 
which changes from the reserve method of accounting for bad debts 
described in section 585 or 593 for its first taxable year for which an 
election under section 1362(a) is in effect, the bank may elect to take 
into account any adjustments under section 481 by reason of such change 
for the taxable year immediately preceding such first taxable year.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1361 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2006.

SEC. 8234. TREATMENT OF THE SALE OF INTEREST IN A QUALIFIED SUBCHAPTER S 
            SUBSIDIARY.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (C) of section 1361(b)(3) (relating to 
treatment of terminations of qualified subchapter S subsidiary status) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``For purposes of this title,'' and 
        inserting the following:
                          ``(i) In general.--For purposes of this 
                      title,'', and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following new clause:
                          ``(ii) Termination by reason of sale of 
                      stock.--If the failure to meet the requirements of 
                      subparagraph (B) is by reason of the sale of stock 
                      of a corporation which is a qualified subchapter S 
                      subsidiary, the sale of such stock shall be 
                      treated as if--
                                    ``(I) the sale were a sale of an 
                                undivided interest in the assets of such 
                                corporation (based on the percentage of 
                                the corporation's stock sold), and
                                    ``(II) the sale were followed by an 
                                acquisition by such corporation of all 
                                of its assets (and the

[[Page 121 STAT. 199]]

                                assumption by such corporation of all of 
                                its liabilities) in a transaction to 
                                which section 351 applies.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1361 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2006.

SEC. 8235. <<NOTE: 26 USC 1361 note.>>  ELIMINATION OF ALL EARNINGS AND 
            PROFITS ATTRIBUTABLE TO PRE-1983 YEARS FOR CERTAIN 
            CORPORATIONS.

    In the case of a corporation which is--
            (1) described in section 1311(a)(1) of the Small Business 
        Job Protection Act of 1996, and
            (2) not described in section 1311(a)(2) of such Act,

the amount of such corporation's accumulated earnings and profits (for 
the first taxable year beginning after the date of the enactment of this 
Act) shall be reduced by an amount equal to the portion (if any) of such 
accumulated earnings and profits which were accumulated in any taxable 
year beginning before January 1, 1983, for which such corporation was an 
electing small business corporation under subchapter S of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986.

SEC. 8236. DEDUCTIBILITY OF INTEREST EXPENSE ON INDEBTEDNESS INCURRED BY 
            AN ELECTING SMALL BUSINESS TRUST TO ACQUIRE S CORPORATION 
            STOCK.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (C) of section <<NOTE: 26 USC 641.>>  
641(c)(2) (relating to modifications) is amended by inserting after 
clause (iii) the following new clause:
                          ``(iv) Any interest expense paid or accrued on 
                      indebtedness incurred to acquire stock in an S 
                      corporation.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 641 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2006.

                       PART 2--REVENUE PROVISIONS

SEC. 8241. INCREASE IN AGE OF CHILDREN WHOSE UNEARNED INCOME IS TAXED AS 
            IF PARENT'S INCOME.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (A) of section 1(g)(2) (relating to 
child to whom subsection applies) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) such child--
                          ``(i) has not attained age 18 before the close 
                      of the taxable year, or
                          ``(ii)(I) has attained age 18 before the close 
                      of the taxable year and meets the age requirements 
                      of section 152(c)(3) (determined without regard to 
                      subparagraph (B) thereof), and
                          ``(II) whose earned income (as defined in 
                      section 911(d)(2)) for such taxable year does not 
                      exceed one-half of the amount of the individual's 
                      support (within the meaning of section 
                      152(c)(1)(D) after the application of section 
                      152(f)(5) (without regard to subparagraph (A) 
                      thereof)) for such taxable year,''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (g) of section 1 is amended by 
striking ``Minor'' in the heading thereof.
    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 1 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made by 
this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 121 STAT. 200]]

SEC. 8242. SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN PENALTIES AND INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--Paragraphs (1)(A) and (3)(A) of section 
6404(g) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6404.>>  are each amended by striking ``18-month 
period'' and inserting ``36-month period''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6404 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to notices provided by the Secretary of 
the Treasury, or his delegate, after the date which is 6 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8243. MODIFICATION OF COLLECTION DUE PROCESS PROCEDURES FOR 
            EMPLOYMENT TAX LIABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 6330(f) (relating to jeopardy and State 
refund collection) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``; or'' at the end of paragraph (1) and 
        inserting a comma,
            (2) by adding ``or'' at the end of paragraph (2), and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) the Secretary has served a disqualified employment tax 
        levy,''.

    (b) Disqualified Employment Tax Levy.--Section 6330 of such Code 
(relating to notice and opportunity for hearing before levy) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Disqualified Employment Tax Levy.--For purposes of subsection 
(f), a disqualified employment tax levy is any levy in connection with 
the collection of employment taxes for any taxable period if the person 
subject to the levy (or any predecessor thereof) requested a hearing 
under this section with respect to unpaid employment taxes arising in 
the most recent 2-year period before the beginning of the taxable period 
with respect to which the levy is served. For purposes of the preceding 
sentence, the term `employment taxes' means any taxes under chapter 21, 
22, 23, or 24.''.
    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6330 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to levies served on or after the date 
that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8244. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF IRS USER FEES.

    Section 7528 (relating to Internal Revenue Service user fees) is 
amended by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 8245. INCREASE IN PENALTY FOR BAD CHECKS AND MONEY ORDERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 6657 (relating to bad checks) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$750'' and inserting ``$1,250'', and
            (2) by striking ``$15'' and inserting ``$25''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6657 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section apply to checks or money orders received after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8246. UNDERSTATEMENT OF TAXPAYER LIABILITY BY RETURN PREPARERS.

    (a) Application of Return Preparer Penalties to All Tax Returns.--
            (1) Definition of tax return preparer.--Paragraph (36) of 
        section 7701(a) (relating to income tax preparer) is amended--

[[Page 121 STAT. 201]]

                    (A) by striking ``income'' each place it appears in 
                the heading and the text, and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``subtitle A'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``this title''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A)(i) Section 6060 <<NOTE: 26 USC 6060.>>  is 
                amended by striking ``income tax return preparers'' in 
                the heading and inserting ``tax return preparers''.
                    (ii) Section 6060(a) is amended--
                          (I) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' each place it appears and inserting ``a 
                      tax return preparer'',
                          (II) by striking ``each income tax return 
                      preparer'' and inserting ``each tax return 
                      preparer'', and
                          (III) by striking ``another income tax return 
                      preparer'' and inserting ``another tax return 
                      preparer''.
                    (iii) The item relating to section 6060 in the table 
                of sections for subpart F of part III of subchapter A of 
                chapter 61 is amended by striking ``income tax return 
                preparers'' and inserting ``tax return preparers''.
                    (iv) Subpart F of part III of subchapter A of 
                chapter 61 is amended by striking ``Income Tax Return 
                Preparers'' in the heading and inserting ``Tax Return 
                Preparers''.
                    (v) The item relating to subpart F in the table of 
                subparts for part III of subchapter A of chapter 61 is 
                amended by striking ``income tax return preparers'' and 
                inserting ``tax return preparers''.
                    (B) Section 6103(k)(5) is amended--
                          (i) by striking ``income tax return preparer'' 
                      each place it appears and inserting ``tax return 
                      preparer'', and
                          (ii) by striking ``income tax return 
                      preparers'' each place it appears and inserting 
                      ``tax return preparers''.
                    (C)(i) Section 6107 is amended--
                          (I) by striking ``income tax return preparer'' 
                      in the heading and inserting ``tax return 
                      preparer'',
                          (II) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' each place it appears in subsections 
                      (a) and (b) and inserting ``a tax return 
                      preparer'',
                          (III) by striking ``Income Tax Return 
                      Preparer'' in the heading for subsection (b) and 
                      inserting ``Tax Return Preparer'', and
                          (IV) in subsection (c), by striking ``income 
                      tax return preparers'' and inserting ``tax return 
                      preparers''.
                    (ii) The item relating to section 6107 in the table 
                of sections for subchapter B of chapter 61 is amended by 
                striking ``Income tax return preparer'' and inserting 
                ``Tax return preparer''.
                    (D) Section 6109(a)(4) is amended--
                          (i) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' and inserting ``a tax return 
                      preparer'', and
                          (ii) by striking ``income return preparer'' in 
                      the heading and inserting ``tax return preparer''.
                    (E) Section 6503(k)(4) is amended by striking 
                ``Income tax return preparers'' and inserting ``Tax 
                return preparers''.
                    (F)(i) Section 6694 is amended--

[[Page 121 STAT. 202]]

                          (I) by striking ``income tax return preparer'' 
                      in the heading and inserting ``tax return 
                      preparer'',
                          (II) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' each place it appears and inserting ``a 
                      tax return preparer'',
                          (III) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``the 
                      income tax return preparer'' and inserting ``the 
                      tax return preparer'',
                          (IV) in subsection (e), by striking ``subtitle 
                      A'' and inserting ``this title'', and
                          (V) in subsection (f), by striking ``income 
                      tax return preparer'' and inserting ``tax return 
                      preparer''.
                    (ii) The item relating to section 6694 in the table 
                of sections for part I of subchapter B of chapter 68 is 
                amended by striking ``income tax return preparer'' and 
                inserting ``tax return preparer''.
                    (G)(i) Section 6695 <<NOTE: 26 USC 6695.>>  is 
                amended--
                          (I) by striking ``income'' in the heading, and
                          (II) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' each place it appears and inserting ``a 
                      tax return preparer''.
                    (ii) Section 6695(f) is amended--
                          (I) by striking ``subtitle A'' and inserting 
                      ``this title'', and
                          (II) by striking ``the income tax return 
                      preparer'' and inserting ``the tax return 
                      preparer''.
                    (iii) The item relating to section 6695 in the table 
                of sections for part I of subchapter B of chapter 68 is 
                amended by striking ``income''.
                    (H) Section 6696(e) is amended by striking 
                ``subtitle A'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``this title''.
                    (I)(i) Section 7407 is amended--
                          (I) by striking ``income tax return 
                      preparers'' in the heading and inserting ``tax 
                      return preparers'',
                          (II) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' each place it appears and inserting ``a 
                      tax return preparer'',
                          (III) by striking ``income tax preparer'' both 
                      places it appears in subsection (a) and inserting 
                      ``tax return preparer'', and
                          (IV) by striking ``income tax return'' in 
                      subsection (a) and inserting ``tax return''.
                    (ii) The item relating to section 7407 in the table 
                of sections for subchapter A of chapter 76 is amended by 
                striking ``income tax return preparers'' and inserting 
                ``tax return preparers''.
                    (J)(i) Section 7427 is amended--
                          (I) by striking ``income tax return 
                      preparers'' in the heading and inserting ``tax 
                      return preparers'', and
                          (II) by striking ``an income tax return 
                      preparer'' and inserting ``a tax return 
                      preparer''.
                    (ii) The item relating to section 7427 in the table 
                of sections for subchapter B of chapter 76 is amended to 
                read as follows:

``Sec. 7427. Tax return preparers.''.


[[Page 121 STAT. 203]]



    (b) Modification of Penalty for Understatement of Taxpayer's 
Liability by Tax Return Preparer.--Subsections (a) and (b) of section 
6694 <<NOTE: 26 USC 6694.>>  are amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) Understatement Due to Unreasonable Positions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any tax return preparer who prepares any 
        return or claim for refund with respect to which any part of an 
        understatement of liability is due to a position described in 
        paragraph (2) shall pay a penalty with respect to each such 
        return or claim in an amount equal to the greater of--
                    ``(A) $1,000, or
                    ``(B) 50 percent of the income derived (or to be 
                derived) by the tax return preparer with respect to the 
                return or claim.
            ``(2) Unreasonable position.--A position is described in 
        this paragraph if--
                    ``(A) the tax return preparer knew (or reasonably 
                should have known) of the position,
                    ``(B) there was not a reasonable belief that the 
                position would more likely than not be sustained on its 
                merits, and
                    ``(C)(i) the position was not disclosed as provided 
                in section 6662(d)(2)(B)(ii), or
                    ``(ii) there was no reasonable basis for the 
                position.
            ``(3) Reasonable cause exception.--No penalty shall be 
        imposed under this subsection if it is shown that there is 
        reasonable cause for the understatement and the tax return 
        preparer acted in good faith.

    ``(b) Understatement Due to Willful or Reckless Conduct.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any tax return preparer who prepares any 
        return or claim for refund with respect to which any part of an 
        understatement of liability is due to a conduct described in 
        paragraph (2) shall pay a penalty with respect to each such 
        return or claim in an amount equal to the greater of--
                    ``(A) $5,000, or
                    ``(B) 50 percent of the income derived (or to be 
                derived) by the tax return preparer with respect to the 
                return or claim.
            ``(2) Willful or reckless conduct.--Conduct described in 
        this paragraph is conduct by the tax return preparer which is--
                    ``(A) a willful attempt in any manner to understate 
                the liability for tax on the return or claim, or
                    ``(B) a reckless or intentional disregard of rules 
                or regulations.
            ``(3) Reduction in penalty.--The amount of any penalty 
        payable by any person by reason of this subsection for any 
        return or claim for refund shall be reduced by the amount of the 
        penalty paid by such person by reason of subsection (a).''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6060 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to returns prepared after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 121 STAT. 204]]

SEC. 8247. PENALTY FOR FILING ERRONEOUS REFUND CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--Part I of subchapter B of chapter 68 (relating to 
assessable penalties) is amended by inserting after section 6675 the 
following new section:

``SEC. 6676. ERRONEOUS CLAIM FOR REFUND OR CREDIT.

    ``(a) Civil Penalty.--If a claim for refund or credit with respect 
to income tax (other than a claim for a refund or credit relating to the 
earned income credit under section 32) is made for an excessive amount, 
unless it is shown that the claim for such excessive amount has a 
reasonable basis, the person making such claim shall be liable for a 
penalty in an amount equal to 20 percent of the excessive amount.
    ``(b) Excessive Amount.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`excessive amount' means in the case of any person the amount by which 
the amount of the claim for refund or credit for any taxable year 
exceeds the amount of such claim allowable under this title for such 
taxable year.
    ``(c) Coordination With Other Penalties.--This section shall not 
apply to any portion of the excessive amount of a claim for refund or 
credit which is subject to a penalty imposed under part II of subchapter 
A of chapter 68.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for part I of 
subchapter B of chapter 68 is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 6675 the following new item:

``Sec. 6676. Erroneous claim for refund or credit.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 6676 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to any claim filed or submitted after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 8248. TIME FOR PAYMENT OF CORPORATE ESTIMATED TAXES.

    Subparagraph (B) of section 401(1) of the Tax Increase Prevention 
and Reconciliation Act of 2005 <<NOTE: 26 USC 6655 note.>>  is amended 
by striking ``106.25 percent'' and inserting ``114.25 percent''.

Subtitle <<NOTE: Small Business and Work Opportunity Act of 2007. 15 USC 
631 note.>>  C--Small Business Incentives

SEC. 8301. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Small Business and Work 
Opportunity Act of 2007''.

SEC. 8302. ENHANCED COMPLIANCE ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 212 of the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (5 U.S.C. 601 note) is amended by 
striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Compliance Guide.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Publication.>>  In general.--For each rule or 
        group of related rules for which an agency is required to 
        prepare a final regulatory flexibility analysis under section 
        605(b) of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall publish 
        1 or more guides to assist small entities in complying with the 
        rule and shall entitle such publications `small entity 
        compliance guides'.
            ``(2) Publication of guides.--The publication of each guide 
        under this subsection shall include--

[[Page 121 STAT. 205]]

                    ``(A) the posting of the guide in an easily 
                identified location on the website of the agency; and
                    ``(B) distribution of the guide to known industry 
                contacts, such as small entities, associations, or 
                industry leaders affected by the rule.
            ``(3) Publication date.--An agency shall publish each guide 
        (including the posting and distribution of the guide as 
        described under paragraph (2))--
                    ``(A) on the same date as the date of publication of 
                the final rule (or as soon as possible after that date); 
                and
                    ``(B) not later than the date on which the 
                requirements of that rule become effective.
            ``(4) Compliance actions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each guide shall explain the 
                actions a small entity is required to take to comply 
                with a rule.
                    ``(B) Explanation.--The explanation under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                          ``(i) shall include a description of actions 
                      needed to meet the requirements of a rule, to 
                      enable a small entity to know when such 
                      requirements are met; and
                          ``(ii) if determined appropriate by the 
                      agency, may include a description of possible 
                      procedures, such as conducting tests, that may 
                      assist a small entity in meeting such 
                      requirements, except that, compliance with any 
                      procedures described pursuant to this section does 
                      not establish compliance with the rule, or 
                      establish a presumption or inference of such 
                      compliance.
                    ``(C) Procedures.--Procedures described under 
                subparagraph (B)(ii)--
                          ``(i) shall be suggestions to assist small 
                      entities; and
                          ``(ii) shall not be additional requirements, 
                      or diminish requirements, relating to the rule.
            ``(5) Agency preparation of guides.--The agency shall, in 
        its sole discretion, taking into account the subject matter of 
        the rule and the language of relevant statutes, ensure that the 
        guide is written using sufficiently plain language likely to be 
        understood by affected small entities. Agencies may prepare 
        separate guides covering groups or classes of similarly affected 
        small entities and may cooperate with associations of small 
        entities to develop and distribute such guides. An agency may 
        prepare guides and apply this section with respect to a rule or 
        a group of related rules.
            ``(6) Reporting.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007, and annually 
        thereafter, the head of each agency shall submit a report to the 
        Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate, 
        the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, 
        and any other committee of relevant jurisdiction describing the 
        status of the agency's compliance with paragraphs (1) through 
        (5).''.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Section 211(3) of the Small 
Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (5 U.S.C. 601 note) 
is amended by inserting ``and entitled'' after ``designated''.

[[Page 121 STAT. 206]]

SEC. 8303. <<NOTE: 42 USC 9858 note.>>  SMALL BUSINESS CHILD CARE GRANT 
            PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall establish a 
program to award grants to States, on a competitive basis, to assist 
States in providing funds to encourage the establishment and operation 
of employer-operated child care programs.
    (b) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, a State shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Secretary may require, including an assurance that 
the funds required under subsection (e) will be provided.
    (c) Amount and Period of Grant.--The Secretary shall determine the 
amount of a grant to a State under this section based on the population 
of the State as compared to the population of all States receiving 
grants under this section. The Secretary shall make the grant for a 
period of 3 years.
    (d) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--A State shall use amounts provided under a 
        grant awarded under this section to provide assistance to small 
        businesses (or consortia formed in accordance with paragraph 
        (3)) located in the State to enable the small businesses (or 
        consortia) to establish and operate child care programs. Such 
        assistance may include--
                    (A) technical assistance in the establishment of a 
                child care program;
                    (B) assistance for the startup costs related to a 
                child care program;
                    (C) assistance for the training of child care 
                providers;
                    (D) scholarships for low-income wage earners;
                    (E) the provision of services to care for sick 
                children or to provide care to school-aged children;
                    (F) the entering into of contracts with local 
                resource and referral organizations or local health 
                departments;
                    (G) assistance for care for children with 
                disabilities;
                    (H) payment of expenses for renovation or operation 
                of a child care facility; or
                    (I) assistance for any other activity determined 
                appropriate by the State.
            (2) Application.--In order for a small business or 
        consortium to be eligible to receive assistance from a State 
        under this section, the small business involved shall prepare 
        and submit to the State an application at such time, in such 
        manner, and containing such information as the State may 
        require.
            (3) Preference.--
                    (A) In general.--In providing assistance under this 
                section, a State shall give priority to an applicant 
                that desires to form a consortium to provide child care 
                in a geographic area within the State where such care is 
                not generally available or accessible.
                    (B) Consortium.--For purposes of subparagraph (A), a 
                consortium shall be made up of 2 or more entities that 
                shall include small businesses and that may include 
                large businesses, nonprofit agencies or organizations, 
                local governments, or other appropriate entities.
            (4) Limitations.--With respect to grant funds received under 
        this section, a State may not provide in excess of $500,000 in 
        assistance from such funds to any single applicant.

[[Page 121 STAT. 207]]

    (e) Matching Requirement.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, a State shall provide assurances to the Secretary that, 
with respect to the costs to be incurred by a covered entity receiving 
assistance in carrying out activities under this section, the covered 
entity will make available (directly or through donations from public or 
private entities) non-Federal contributions to such costs in an amount 
equal to--
            (1) for the first fiscal year in which the covered entity 
        receives such assistance, not less than 50 percent of such costs 
        ($1 for each $1 of assistance provided to the covered entity 
        under the grant);
            (2) for the second fiscal year in which the covered entity 
        receives such assistance, not less than 66\2/3\ percent of such 
        costs ($2 for each $1 of assistance provided to the covered 
        entity under the grant); and
            (3) for the third fiscal year in which the covered entity 
        receives such assistance, not less than 75 percent of such costs 
        ($3 for each $1 of assistance provided to the covered entity 
        under the grant).

    (f) Requirements of Providers.--To be eligible to receive assistance 
under a grant awarded under this section, a child care provider--
            (1) who receives assistance from a State shall comply with 
        all applicable State and local licensing and regulatory 
        requirements and all applicable health and safety standards in 
        effect in the State; and
            (2) who receives assistance from an Indian tribe or tribal 
        organization shall comply with all applicable regulatory 
        standards.

    (g) State-Level Activities.--A State may not retain more than 3 
percent of the amount described in subsection (c) for State 
administration and other State-level activities.
    (h) Administration.--
            (1) State responsibility.--A State shall have responsibility 
        for administering a grant awarded for the State under this 
        section and for monitoring covered entities that receive 
        assistance under such grant.
            (2) Audits.--A State shall require each covered entity 
        receiving assistance under the grant awarded under this section 
        to conduct an annual audit with respect to the activities of the 
        covered entity. Such audits shall be submitted to the State.
            (3) Misuse of funds.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Repayment.--If the 
                State determines, through an audit or otherwise, that a 
                covered entity receiving assistance under a grant 
                awarded under this section has misused the assistance, 
                the State shall notify the Secretary of the misuse. The 
                Secretary, upon such a notification, may seek from such 
                a covered entity the repayment of an amount equal to the 
                amount of any such misused assistance plus interest.
                    (B) <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  Appeals process.--The 
                Secretary shall by regulation provide for an appeals 
                process with respect to repayments under this paragraph.

    (i) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) 2-year study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date on which the Secretary first awards grants under

[[Page 121 STAT. 208]]

                this section, the Secretary shall conduct a study to 
                determine--
                          (i) the capacity of covered entities to meet 
                      the child care needs of communities within States;
                          (ii) the kinds of consortia that are being 
                      formed with respect to child care at the local 
                      level to carry out programs funded under this 
                      section; and
                          (iii) who is using the programs funded under 
                      this section and the income levels of such 
                      individuals.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 28 months after the date 
                on which the Secretary first awards grants under this 
                section, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
                results of the study conducted in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Four-year study.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 
                4 years after the date on which the Secretary first 
                awards grants under this section, the Secretary shall 
                conduct a study to determine the number of child care 
                facilities that are funded through covered entities that 
                received assistance through a grant awarded under this 
                section and that remain in operation, and the extent to 
                which such facilities are meeting the child care needs 
                of the individuals served by such facilities.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 52 months after the date 
                on which the Secretary first awards grants under this 
                section, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
                results of the study conducted in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A).

    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' means a 
        small business or a consortium formed in accordance with 
        subsection (d)(3).
            (2) Indian community.--The term ``Indian community'' means a 
        community served by an Indian tribe or tribal organization.
            (3) Indian tribe; tribal organization.--The terms ``Indian 
        tribe'' and ``tribal organization'' have the meanings given the 
        terms in section 658P of the Child Care and Development Block 
        Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n).
            (4) Small business.--The term ``small business'' means an 
        employer who employed an average of at least 2 but not more than 
        50 employees on the business days during the preceding calendar 
        year.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 658P of the Child Care and Development Block 
        Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n).

    (k) Application to Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations.--In this 
section:
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (f)(1), 
        and in paragraphs (2) and (3), the term ``State'' includes an 
        Indian tribe or tribal organization.
            (2) Geographic references.--The term ``State'' includes an 
        Indian community in subsections (c) (the second and third place 
        the term appears), (d)(1) (the second place the term

[[Page 121 STAT. 209]]

        appears), (d)(3)(A) (the second place the term appears), and 
        (i)(1)(A)(i).
            (3) State-level activities.--The term ``State-level 
        activities'' includes activities at the tribal level.

    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section, $50,000,000 for the period of fiscal 
        years 2008 through 2012.
            (2) Studies and administration.--With respect to the total 
        amount appropriated for such period in accordance with this 
        subsection, not more than $2,500,000 of that amount may be used 
        for expenditures related to conducting studies required under, 
        and the administration of, this section.

    (m) Termination of Program.--The program established under 
subsection (a) shall terminate on September 30, 2012.

SEC. 8304. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  STUDY OF UNIVERSAL USE OF ADVANCE 
            PAYMENT OF EARNED INCOME CREDIT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress on a study of the 
benefits, costs, risks, and barriers to workers and to businesses (with 
a special emphasis on small businesses) if the advance earned income tax 
credit program (under section 3507 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) 
included all recipients of the earned income tax credit (under section 
32 of such Code) and what steps would be necessary to implement such 
inclusion.

SEC. 8305. RENEWAL GRANTS FOR WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
656) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(m) Continued Funding for Centers.--
            ``(1) In general.--A nonprofit organization described in 
        paragraph (2) shall be eligible to receive, subject to paragraph 
        (3), a 3-year grant under this subsection.
            ``(2) Applicability.--A nonprofit organization described in 
        this paragraph is a nonprofit organization that has received 
        funding under subsection (b) or (l).
            ``(3) Application and approval criteria.--
                    ``(A) Criteria.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Administrator shall develop and publish criteria for the 
                consideration and approval of applications by nonprofit 
                organizations under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--Except as otherwise provided in 
                this subsection, the conditions for participation in the 
                grant program under this subsection shall be the same as 
                the conditions for participation in the program under 
                subsection (l), as in effect on the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    ``(C) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Notification.--Not later 
                than 60 days after the date of the deadline to submit 
                applications for each fiscal year, the Administrator 
                shall approve or deny any application under this 
                subsection and notify the applicant for each such 
                application.
            ``(4) Award of grants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, the Administrator shall make a grant for 
                the Federal share of the cost of activities described in 
                the

[[Page 121 STAT. 210]]

                application to each applicant approved under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Amount.--A grant under this subsection shall 
                be for not more than $150,000, for each year of that 
                grant.
                    ``(C) Federal share.--The Federal share under this 
                subsection shall be not more than 50 percent.
                    ``(D) Priority.--In allocating funds made available 
                for grants under this section, the Administrator shall 
                give applications under this subsection or subsection 
                (l) priority over first-time applications under 
                subsection (b).
            ``(5) Renewal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator may renew a 
                grant under this subsection for additional 3-year 
                periods, if the nonprofit organization submits an 
                application for such renewal at such time, in such 
                manner, and accompanied by such information as the 
                Administrator may establish.
                    ``(B) Unlimited renewals.--There shall be no 
                limitation on the number of times a grant may be renewed 
                under subparagraph (A).

    ``(n) Privacy Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--A women's business center may not 
        disclose the name, address, or telephone number of any 
        individual or small business concern receiving assistance under 
        this section without the consent of such individual or small 
        business concern, unless--
                    ``(A) the Administrator is ordered to make such a 
                disclosure by a court in any civil or criminal 
                enforcement action initiated by a Federal or State 
                agency; or
                    ``(B) the Administrator considers such a disclosure 
                to be necessary for the purpose of conducting a 
                financial audit of a women's business center, but a 
                disclosure under this subparagraph shall be limited to 
                the information necessary for such audit.
            ``(2) Administration use of information.--This subsection 
        shall not--
                    ``(A) restrict Administration access to program 
                activity data; or
                    ``(B) prevent the Administration from using client 
                information (other than the information described in 
                subparagraph (A)) to conduct client surveys.
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Administrator shall issue 
        regulations to establish standards for requiring disclosures 
        during a financial audit under paragraph (1)(B).''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 15 USC 656 note.>>  Repeal.--Section 
29(l) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(l)) is repealed effective 
October 1 of the first full fiscal year after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

    (c) <<NOTE: 15 USC 656 note.>>  Transitional Rule.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, a grant or cooperative agreement that was 
awarded under subsection (l) of section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 656), on or before the day before the date described in 
subsection (b) of this section, shall remain in full force and effect 
under the terms, and for the duration, of such grant or agreement.

[[Page 121 STAT. 211]]

SEC. 8306. REPORTS ON ACQUISITIONS OF ARTICLES, MATERIALS, AND SUPPLIES 
            MANUFACTURED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 2 of the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the end of 
        each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011, the head of each Federal 
        agency shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives 
        a report on the amount of the acquisitions made by the agency in 
        that fiscal year of articles, materials, or supplies purchased 
        from entities that manufacture the articles, materials, or 
        supplies outside of the United States.
            ``(2) Contents of report.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall separately include, for the fiscal year covered by 
        such report--
                    ``(A) the dollar value of any articles, materials, 
                or supplies that were manufactured outside the United 
                States;
                    ``(B) an itemized list of all waivers granted with 
                respect to such articles, materials, or supplies under 
                this Act, and a citation to the treaty, international 
                agreement, or other law under which each waiver was 
                granted;
                    ``(C) if any articles, materials, or supplies were 
                acquired from entities that manufacture articles, 
                materials, or supplies outside the United States, the 
                specific exception under this section that was used to 
                purchase such articles, materials, or supplies; and
                    ``(D) a summary of--
                          ``(i) the total procurement funds expended on 
                      articles, materials, and supplies manufactured 
                      inside the United States; and
                          ``(ii) the total procurement funds expended on 
                      articles, materials, and supplies manufactured 
                      outside the United States.
            ``(3) Public availability.--The head of each Federal agency 
        submitting a report under paragraph (1) shall make the report 
        publicly available to the maximum extent practicable.
            ``(4) Exception for intelligence community.--This subsection 
        shall not apply to acquisitions made by an agency, or component 
        thereof, that is an element of the intelligence community as 
        specified in, or designated under, section 3(4) of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).''.

                    TITLE IX--AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE

SEC. 9001. CROP DISASTER ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Assistance Available.--There are hereby appropriated to the 
Secretary of Agriculture such sums as are necessary, to remain available 
until expended, to make emergency financial assistance available to 
producers on a farm that incurred qualifying quantity or quality losses 
for the 2005, 2006, or 2007 crop, due to damaging

[[Page 121 STAT. 212]]

weather or any related condition (including losses due to crop diseases, 
insects, and delayed planting), as determined by the Secretary. However, 
to be eligible for assistance, the crop subject to the loss must have 
been planted before February 28, 2007, or, in the case of prevented 
planting or other total loss, would have been planted before February 
28, 2007, in the absence of the damaging weather or any related 
condition.
    (b) Election of Crop Year.--If a producer incurred qualifying crop 
losses in more than one of the 2005, 2006, or 2007 crop years, the 
producer shall elect to receive assistance under this section for losses 
incurred in only one of such crop years. The producer may not receive 
assistance under this section for more than one crop year.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall make assistance available under 
        this section in the same manner as provided under section 815 of 
        the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration 
        and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-
        387; 114 Stat. 1549A-55), including using the same loss 
        thresholds for quantity and economic losses as were used in 
        administering that section, except that the payment rate shall 
        be 42 percent of the established price, instead of 65 percent.
            (2) Loss thresholds for quality losses.--In the case of a 
        payment for quality loss for a crop under subsection (a), the 
        loss thresholds for quality loss for the crop shall be 
        determined under subsection (d).

    (d) Quality Losses.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), the amount of a 
        payment made to producers on a farm for a quality loss for a 
        crop under subsection (a) shall be equal to the amount obtained 
        by multiplying--
                    (A) 65 percent of the payment quantity determined 
                under paragraph (2); by
                    (B) 42 percent of the payment rate determined under 
                paragraph (3).
            (2) Payment quantity.--For the purpose of paragraph (1)(A), 
        the payment quantity for quality losses for a crop of a 
        commodity on a farm shall equal the lesser of--
                    (A) the actual production of the crop affected by a 
                quality loss of the commodity on the farm; or
                    (B) the quantity of expected production of the crop 
                affected by a quality loss of the commodity on the farm, 
                using the formula used by the Secretary of Agriculture 
                to determine quantity losses for the crop of the 
                commodity under subsection (a).
            (3) Payment rate.--For the purpose of paragraph (1)(B) and 
        in accordance with paragraphs (5) and (6), the payment rate for 
        quality losses for a crop of a commodity on a farm shall be 
        equal to the difference between--
                    (A) the per unit market value that the units of the 
                crop affected by the quality loss would have had if the 
                crop had not suffered a quality loss; and
                    (B) the per unit market value of the units of the 
                crop affected by the quality loss.

[[Page 121 STAT. 213]]

            (4) Eligibility.--For producers on a farm to be eligible to 
        obtain a payment for a quality loss for a crop under subsection 
        (a), the amount obtained by multiplying the per unit loss 
        determined under paragraph (1) by the number of units affected 
        by the quality loss shall be at least 25 percent of the value 
        that all affected production of the crop would have had if the 
        crop had not suffered a quality loss.
            (5) Marketing contracts.--In the case of any production of a 
        commodity that is sold pursuant to one or more marketing 
        contracts (regardless of whether the contract is entered into by 
        the producers on the farm before or after harvest) and for which 
        appropriate documentation exists, the quantity designated in the 
        contracts shall be eligible for quality loss assistance based on 
        the one or more prices specified in the contracts.
            (6) Other production.--For any additional production of a 
        commodity for which a marketing contract does not exist or for 
        which production continues to be owned by the producer, quality 
        losses shall be based on the average local market discounts for 
        reduced quality, as determined by the appropriate State 
        committee of the Farm Service Agency.
            (7) Quality adjustments and discounts.--The appropriate 
        State committee of the Farm Service Agency shall identify the 
        appropriate quality adjustment and discount factors to be 
        considered in carrying out this subsection, including--
                    (A) the average local discounts actually applied to 
                a crop; and
                    (B) the discount schedules applied to loans made by 
                the Farm Service Agency or crop insurance coverage under 
                the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).
            (8) Eligible production.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        carry out this subsection in a fair and equitable manner for all 
        eligible production, including the production of fruits and 
        vegetables, other specialty crops, and field crops.

    (e) Payment Limitations.--
            (1) Limit on amount of assistance.--Assistance provided 
        under this section to a producer for losses to a crop, together 
        with the amounts specified in paragraph (2) applicable to the 
        same crop, may not exceed 95 percent of what the value of the 
        crop would have been in the absence of the losses, as estimated 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (2) Other payments.--In applying the limitation in paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall include the following:
                    (A) Any crop insurance payment made under the 
                Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or 
                payment under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture 
                Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) that 
                the producer receives for losses to the same crop.
                    (B) The value of the crop that was not lost (if 
                any), as estimated by the Secretary.

    (f) Eligibility Requirements and Limitations.--The producers on a 
farm shall not be eligible for assistance under this section with 
respect to losses to an insurable commodity or noninsurable commodity if 
the producers on the farm--
            (1) in the case of an insurable commodity, did not obtain a 
        policy or plan of insurance for the insurable commodity under 
        the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the 
        crop incurring the losses;

[[Page 121 STAT. 214]]

            (2) in the case of a noninsurable commodity, did not file 
        the required paperwork, and pay the administrative fee by the 
        applicable State filing deadline, for the noninsurable commodity 
        under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
        Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) for the crop incurring the 
        losses; or
            (3) were not in compliance with highly erodible land 
        conservation and wetland conservation provisions.

    (g) Timing.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Subject to paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary of Agriculture shall make payments to 
        producers on a farm for a crop under this section not later than 
        60 days after the date the producers on the farm submit to the 
        Secretary a completed application for the payments.
            (2) Interest.--If the Secretary does not make payments to 
        the producers on a farm by the date described in paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall pay to the producers on a farm interest on 
        the payments at a rate equal to the current (as of the sign-up 
        deadline established by the Secretary) market yield on 
        outstanding, marketable obligations of the United States with 
        maturities of 30 years.

    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Insurable commodity.--The term ``insurable commodity'' 
        means an agricultural commodity (excluding livestock) for which 
        the producers on a farm are eligible to obtain a policy or plan 
        of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 
        et seq.).
            (2) Noninsurable commodity.--The term ``noninsurable 
        commodity'' means a crop for which the producers on a farm are 
        eligible to obtain assistance under section 196 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333).

SEC. 9002. LIVESTOCK ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Livestock Compensation Program.--
            (1) Availability of assistance.--There are hereby 
        appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture such sums as are 
        necessary, to remain available until expended, to carry out the 
        livestock compensation program established under subpart B of 
        part 1416 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, as announced 
        by the Secretary on February 12, 2007 (72 Fed. Reg. 6443), to 
        provide compensation for livestock losses between January 1, 
        2005 and February 28, 2007, due to a disaster, as determined by 
        the Secretary (including losses due to blizzards that started in 
        2006 and continued into January 2007). However, the payment rate 
        for compensation under this subsection shall be 61 percent of 
        the payment rate otherwise applicable under such program. In 
        addition, section 1416.102(b)(2)(ii) of title 7, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (72 Fed. Reg. 6444) shall not apply.
            (2) Eligible applicants.--In carrying out the program 
        described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide 
        assistance to any applicant that--
                    (A) conducts a livestock operation that is located 
                in a disaster county with eligible livestock specified 
                in paragraph (1) of section 1416.102(a) of title 7, Code 
                of Federal Regulations (72 Fed. Reg. 6444), an animal 
                described in

[[Page 121 STAT. 215]]

                section 10806(a)(1) of the Farm Security and Rural 
                Investment Act of 2002 (21 U.S.C. 321d(a)(1)), or other 
                animals designated by the Secretary as livestock for 
                purposes of this subsection; and
                    (B) meets the requirements of paragraphs (3) and (4) 
                of section 1416.102(a) of title 7, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, and all other eligibility requirements 
                established by the Secretary for the program.
            (3) Election of losses.--
                    (A) If a producer incurred eligible livestock losses 
                in more than one of the 2005, 2006, or 2007 calendar 
                years, the producer shall elect to receive payments 
                under this subsection for losses incurred in only one of 
                such calendar years, and such losses must have been 
                incurred in a county declared or designated as a 
                disaster county in that same calendar year.
                    (B) Producers may elect to receive compensation for 
                losses in the calendar year 2007 grazing season that are 
                attributable to wildfires occurring during the 
                applicable period, as determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Mitigation.--In determining the eligibility for or 
        amount of payments for which a producer is eligible under the 
        livestock compensation program, the Secretary shall not penalize 
        a producer that takes actions (recognizing disaster conditions) 
        that reduce the average number of livestock the producer owned 
        for grazing during the production year for which assistance is 
        being provided.
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Disaster county.--The term ``disaster county'' 
                means--
                          (i) a county included in the geographic area 
                      covered by a natural disaster declaration; and
                          (ii) each county contiguous to a county 
                      described in clause (i).
                    (B) Natural disaster declaration.--The term 
                ``natural disaster declaration'' means--
                          (i) a natural disaster declared by the 
                      Secretary between January 1, 2005 and February 28, 
                      2007, under section 321(a) of the Consolidated 
                      Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961(a));
                          (ii) a major disaster or emergency designated 
                      by the President between January 1, 2005 and 
                      February 28, 2007, under the Robert T. Stafford 
                      Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
                      U.S.C. 5121 et seq.); or
                          (iii) a determination of a Farm Service Agency 
                      Administrator's Physical Loss Notice if such 
                      notice applies to a county included under (ii).

    (b) Livestock Indemnity Payments.--
            (1) Availability of assistance.--There are hereby 
        appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture such sums as are 
        necessary, to remain available until expended, to make livestock 
        indemnity payments to producers on farms that have incurred 
        livestock losses between January 1, 2005 and February 28, 2007, 
        due to a disaster, as determined by the Secretary (including 
        losses due to blizzards that started in 2006 and continued into 
        January 2007) in a disaster county. To be eligible

[[Page 121 STAT. 216]]

        for assistance, applicants must meet all eligibility 
        requirements established by the Secretary for the program.
            (2) Election of losses.--If a producer incurred eligible 
        livestock losses in more than one of the 2005, 2006, or 2007 
        calendar years, the producer shall elect to receive payments 
        under this subsection for losses incurred in only one of such 
        calendar years. The producer may not receive payments under this 
        subsection for more than one calendar year.
            (3) Payment rates.--Indemnity payments to a producer on a 
        farm under paragraph (1) shall be made at a rate of not less 
        than 26 percent of the market value of the applicable livestock 
        on the day before the date of death of the livestock, as 
        determined by the Secretary.
            (4) Livestock defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``livestock'' means an animal that--
                    (A) is specified in clause (i) of section 
                1416.203(a)(2) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations 
                (72 Fed. Reg. 6445), or is designated by the Secretary 
                as livestock for purposes of this subsection; and
                    (B) meets the requirements of clauses (iii) and (iv) 
                of such section.
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Disaster county.--The term ``disaster county'' 
                means--
                          (i) a county included in the geographic area 
                      covered by a natural disaster declaration; and
                          (ii) each county contiguous to a county 
                      described in clause (i).
                    (B) Natural disaster declaration.--The term 
                ``natural disaster declaration'' means--
                          (i) a natural disaster declared by the 
                      Secretary between January 1, 2005 and February 28, 
                      2007, under section 321(a) of the Consolidated 
                      Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961(a));
                          (ii) a major disaster or emergency designated 
                      by the President between January 1, 2005 and 
                      February 28, 2007, under the Robert T. Stafford 
                      Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
                      U.S.C. 5121 et seq.); or
                          (iii) a determination of a Farm Service Agency 
                      Administrator's Physical Loss Notice if such 
                      notice applies to a county included under (ii).

SEC. 9003. EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

    There is hereby appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture 
$16,000,000, to remain available until expended, to provide assistance 
under the Emergency Conservation Program under title IV of the 
Agriculture Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) for the cleanup 
and restoration of farm and agricultural production lands.

SEC. 9004. PAYMENT LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Reduction in Payments to Reflect Payments for Same or Similar 
Losses.--The amount of any payment for which a producer is eligible 
under sections 9001 and 9002 shall be reduced by any amount received by 
the producer for the same loss or any similar loss under--

[[Page 121 STAT. 217]]

            (1) the Department of Defense, Emergency Supplemental 
        Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, and 
        Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-148; 119 Stat. 
        2680);
            (2) an agricultural disaster assistance provision contained 
        in the announcement of the Secretary on January 26, 2006 or 
        August 29, 2006; or
            (3) the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 
        Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 
        (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 418).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Adjusted Gross Income Limitation.--
Section 1001D of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308-3a) shall 
apply with respect to assistance provided under sections 9001, 9002, and 
9003.

SEC. 9005. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Regulations.--The Secretary of Agriculture may promulgate such 
regulations as are necessary to implement sections 9001 and 9002.
    (b) Procedure.--The promulgation of the implementing regulations and 
the administration of sections 9001 and 9002 shall be made without 
regard to--
            (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to 
        notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
        rulemaking; and
            (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').

    (c) Congressional Review of Agency Rulemaking.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall use the authority provided 
under section 808 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Use of Commodity Credit Corporation; Limitation.--In 
implementing sections 9001 and 9002, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
use the facilities, services, and authorities of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation. The Corporation shall not make any expenditures to carry 
out sections 9001 and 9002 unless funds have been specifically 
appropriated for such purpose.

SEC. 9006. MILK INCOME LOSS CONTRACT PROGRAM.

    (a) Section 1502(c)(3) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act 
of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 7982(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by adding ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``August'' and all that 
        follows through the end and inserting ``September 30, 2007, 34 
        percent.''; and
            (3) by striking subparagraph (C).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Section 10002 of this Act shall not 
apply to this section except with respect to fiscal years 2007 and 2008.

SEC. 9007. DAIRY ASSISTANCE.

    There is hereby appropriated $16,000,000 to make payments to dairy 
producers for dairy production losses in disaster counties, as defined 
in section 9002 of this title, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 121 STAT. 218]]

SEC. 9008. NONINSURED CROP ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    For States in which there is a shortage of claims adjustors, as 
determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall permit the use of one 
claims adjustor certified by the Secretary in carrying out 7 CFR 
1437.401.

SEC. 9009. EMERGENCY GRANTS TO ASSIST LOW-INCOME MIGRANT AND SEASONAL 
            FARMWORKERS.

    There is hereby appropriated $16,000,000 to carry out section 2281 
of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
5177a), to remain available until expended.

SEC. 9010. CONSERVATION SECURITY PROGRAM.

    Section 20115 of Public Law 110-5 is amended <<NOTE: Ante, p. 16.>>  
by striking ``section 726'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 726; 
section 741''.

SEC. 9011. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    There is hereby appropriated $22,000,000 for the ``Farm Service 
Agency, Salaries and Expenses'', to remain available until September 30, 
2008.

SEC. 9012. CONTRACT WAIVER.

    In carrying out crop disaster and livestock assistance in this 
title, the Secretary shall require forage producers to have participated 
in a crop insurance pilot program or the Non-Insured Crop Disaster 
Assistance Program during the crop year for which compensation is 
received.

                       TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 10001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 10002. Amounts in this Act (other than in titles VI and VIII) 
are designated as emergency requirements and necessary to meet emergency 
needs pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of section 204 of S. Con. Res. 
21 (110th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2008.

    Approved May 25, 2007.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2206:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 153 (2007):
            May 10, considered and passed House.
            May 15, 17, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            May 24, House concurred in Senate amendment with an 
                amendment. Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>