[110th Congress Public Law 295]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ295.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 2972]]

Public Law 110-295
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To make a technical correction to section 3009 of the Deficit Reduction 
           Act of 2005. <<NOTE: July 30, 2008 -  [S. 2607]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: DTV Transition 
Assistance Act.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 47 USC 609 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DTV Transition Assistance Act''.

SEC. 2. DTV TRANSITION.

    (a) In General.--Section 3008(a) of the Digital Television 
Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005 <<NOTE: 47 USC 309 note.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1) In General.--'' before ``The 
        Assistant Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:

    ``(2) Use of funds.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
enactment of the DTV Transition Assistance Act, the Assistant Secretary 
shall make a determination, which the Assistant Secretary may adjust 
from time to time, with respect to whether the full amount provided 
under paragraph (1) will be needed for payments under that paragraph. If 
the Assistant Secretary determines that the full amount will not be 
needed for payments authorized by paragraph (1), the Assistant Secretary 
may use the remaining amount for consumer education and technical 
assistance regarding the digital television transition and the 
availability of the digital-to-analog converter box program (in addition 
to any amounts expended for such purpose under 3005(c)(2)(A) of this 
title), including partnering with, providing grants to, and contracting 
with non-profit organizations or public interest groups in achieving 
these efforts. <<NOTE: Plans.>> If the Assistant Secretary initiates 
such an education program, the Assistant Secretary shall develop a plan 
to address the educational and technical assistance needs of vulnerable 
populations, such as senior citizens, individuals residing in rural and 
remote areas, and minorities, including, where appropriate, education 
plans focusing on the need for analog pass-through digital converter 
boxes in areas served by low power or translator stations, and shall 
consider the speed with which these objectives can be accomplished to 
the greatest public benefit.''.

    (b) Fiscal Years to Which Applicable.--Section 3009(a) of the 
Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-171) <<NOTE: 47 USC 309 
note.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2009'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        years 2009 through 2012''; and

[[Page 122 STAT. 2973]]

            (2) by striking ``no earlier than October 1, 2010'' and 
        inserting ``on or after February 18, 2009''.

    Approved July 30, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2607:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 110-348 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 154 (2008):
            June 19, considered and passed Senate.
            July 9, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>