[116th Congress Public Law 20]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 133 STAT. 871]]

Public Law 116-20
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2019, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 6, 2019 -  [H.R. 2157]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Additional 
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019.>>   The 
following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                   Processing, Research and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Secretary'', 
$3,005,442,000, which shall remain available until December 31, 2020, 
for necessary expenses related to losses of crops (including milk, on-
farm stored commodities, crops prevented from planting in 2019, and 
harvested adulterated wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a 
consequence of Hurricanes Michael and Florence, other hurricanes, 
floods, tornadoes, typhoons, volcanic activity, snowstorms, and 
wildfires occurring in calendar years 2018 and 2019 under such terms and 
conditions as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That the Secretary may provide 
assistance for such losses in the form of block grants to eligible 
states and territories and such assistance may include compensation to 
producers, as determined by the Secretary, for forest restoration and 
poultry and livestock losses:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  
That of the amounts provided under this heading, tree assistance 
payments may be made under section 1501(e) of the Agricultural Act of 
2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery tree growers 
(as defined in such section) of pecan trees with a tree mortality rate 
that exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mortality) and is less 
than 15 percent (adjusted for normal mortality), to be available until 
expended, for losses incurred during the period beginning January 1, 
2018, and ending December 31, 2018:  Provided further, That in the case 
of producers impacted by volcanic activity that resulted in the loss of 
crop land, or access to crop land, the Secretary shall consider all 
measures available, as appropriate, to bring replacement land into 
production:  Provided further, That of the

[[Page 133 STAT. 872]]

amounts provided under this heading, not more than $7,000,000 shall be 
available to make payments to agricultural producers whose Whole Farm 
Revenue Protection indemnity payments were reduced following 2018 crop 
year losses due to assistance received through state-legislated 
agriculture disaster assistance programs:  Provided further, That the 
total amount of payments received under this heading and applicable 
policies of crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program 
(NAP) under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the 
loss as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the total 
amount of payments received under this heading for producers who did not 
obtain a policy or plan of insurance for an insurable commodity for the 
applicable crop year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 
et seq.) for the crop incurring the losses or did not file the required 
paperwork and pay the service fee by the applicable State filing 
deadline for a noninsurable commodity for the applicable crop year under 
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the 
loss as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That in the case 
of a crop under this heading for which the Federal Crop Insurance 
Corporation offers a revenue insurance policy under section 508 of the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508), the Secretary shall use the 
greater of the projected price or the harvest price for such crop to 
determine the expected value of such crop:  Provided further, That 
producers receiving payments under this heading, as determined by the 
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop insurance where crop 
insurance is available for the next two available crop years, excluding 
tree insurance policies, and producers receiving payments under this 
heading shall be required to purchase coverage under NAP where crop 
insurance is not available in the next two available crop years, as 
determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  
That, not later than 120 days after the end of fiscal year 2019, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress specifying the type, 
amount, and method of such assistance by state and territory:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                           Farm Service Agency

                  emergency forest restoration program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Forest Restoration 
Program'', for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and wildfires occurring in calendar year 
2018, tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year 2019, and other 
natural disasters, $480,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 873]]

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'', 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael 
and Florence and wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, tornadoes 
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019, and other natural disasters, 
$558,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'', for necessary expenses for the Emergency Watershed 
Protection Program related to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and 
Florence and wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, tornadoes and 
floods occurring in calendar year 2019, and other natural disasters, 
$435,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                            Rural Development

               rural community facilities program account

    For an additional amount for the cost of grants for rural community 
facilities programs as authorized by section 306 and described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael 
and Florence and wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, tornadoes 
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019, and other natural disasters, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act are not applicable to the funds made available under this heading:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 101.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available, out of 
the funds made available under section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for the Secretary to provide a 
grant to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for disaster 
nutrition assistance in response to the Presidentially declared major 
disasters and emergencies:  Provided, That funds made available to the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands under this section shall 
remain available for obligation by the Commonwealth until September 30, 
2020:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section

[[Page 133 STAT. 874]]

251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 102.  For purposes of administering title I of subdivision 1 of 
division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-123), 
losses to agricultural producers resulting from hurricanes shall also 
include losses incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy, losses of peach and 
blueberry crops in calendar year 2017 due to extreme cold, and blueberry 
productivity losses in calendar year 2018 due to extreme cold and 
hurricane damage in calendar year 2017:  Provided, That the amounts 
provided by this section are designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That amounts repurposed under this section that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a person or 
legal entity is not eligible to receive a payment under the Market 
Facilitation Program established pursuant to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average adjusted 
gross income of such person or legal entity is greater than $900,000.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a person or legal entity if at 
least 75 percent of the adjusted gross income of such person or legal 
entity is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry related 
activities.
    (b) In this section, the term ``average adjusted gross income'' has 
the meaning given the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7 Code 
of Federal Regulations (as in effect July 18, 2018).
    (c) The amount provided by this section is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Grants. Puerto Rico.>>   In addition to other 
amounts made available by section 309 of division A of the Additional 
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017 
(Public Law 115-72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is appropriated to the 
Secretary, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a 
grant to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster nutrition 
assistance in response to a major disaster or emergency designated by 
the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided, That the funds made 
available to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under this section shall 
remain available for obligation by the Commonwealth until September 30, 
2020, and shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Study. Survey. Puerto Rico.>>   There is hereby 
appropriated $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, 
for the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct an independent study, 
including a survey of participants,

[[Page 133 STAT. 875]]

to compare the impact of the additional benefits provided by section 309 
of Public Law 115-72 to the food insecurity, health status, and well-
being of low-income residents in Puerto Rico without such additional 
benefits:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 106.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available, out of 
the funds made available under section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008, $18,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to provide a 
grant to American Samoa for disaster nutrition assistance in response to 
the presidentially declared major disasters and emergencies:  Provided, 
That funds made available to the territory under this section shall 
remain available for obligation by the territory until September 30, 
2020:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1508 note.>>   Beginning not later than the 
2020 reinsurance year, the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall 
offer coverage under the wholefarm revenue protection insurance policy 
(or a successor policy or plan of insurance) for hemp (as defined in 
section 297A of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 
1639o)):  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

    Sec. 108. <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any rural community impacted by major declared 
disaster DR-4407 may have the governor in the affected state, or the 
governor's designee, certify the area's population as a rural area with 
respect to eligibility for loans, grants, and technical assistance under 
rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture until 
data from the 2020 United States Census is available:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Pursuant to section 703 of the Public Works and Economic Development 
Act (42 U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for ``Economic 
Development Assistance Programs'' for necessary expenses related to 
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term recovery, and restoration 
of infrastructure in areas that received a major disaster designation as 
a result of Hurricanes Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and 
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and other 
natural disasters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and 
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 under the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.),

[[Page 133 STAT. 876]]

$600,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That 
within the amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of funds may be 
transferred to the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for administration 
and oversight activities:  Provided further, That within the amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of 
Inspector General'' account for carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the funding provided under this heading.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and of wildfires, 
$120,570,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020, as follows:
            (1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of observing 
        assets, real property, and equipment;
            (2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment and removal;
            (3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and geodesy services;
            (4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane intensity 
        forecasting, including through deployment of unmanned ocean 
        observing platforms and enhanced data assimilation; (b) flood 
        prediction, forecasting, and mitigation capabilities; and (c) 
        wildfire prediction, detection, and forecasting; and
            (5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as authorized under 
        section 906(c) of division O of Public Law 114-113:

  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>>  That the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate for funding provided under subsection (4) of this heading within 
45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Acquisition and 
Construction'', $25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021, for improvements to operational and research weather 
supercomputing infrastructure and satellite ground services used for 
hurricane intensity and track prediction; flood prediction, forecasting, 
and mitigation; and wildfire prediction, detection, and forecasting:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Spending plan. Deadline.>>  That the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 877]]

                       fishery disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Fishery Disaster Assistance'' for 
necessary expenses associated with the mitigation of fishery disasters, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
shall be used for mitigating the effects of commercial fishery failures 
and fishery resource disasters declared by the Secretary of Commerce, 
including those declared by the Secretary to be a direct result of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     United States Marshals Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael 
and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                          Federal Prison System

                        buildings and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Buildings and Facilities'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $28,400,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Legal Services Corporation

                payment to the legal services corporation

    For an additional amount for ``Payment to the Legal Services 
Corporation'' to carry out the purposes of the Legal Services 
Corporation Act by providing for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu 
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires, volcanic eruptions, and 
earthquakes, and calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods, $15,000,000:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or 
limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 
503, 504,

[[Page 133 STAT. 878]]

505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2018 and 2019, respectively, and except that sections 501 and 503 of 
Public Law 104-134 (referenced by Public Law 105-119) shall not apply to 
the amount made available under this heading:  Provided further, That, 
for the purposes of this Act, the Legal Services Corporation shall be 
considered an agency of the United States Government.

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $381,000,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $670,000,000, for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and floods occurring in 
calendar year 2019:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 301.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under each heading in this title shall only be used for the 
purposes specifically described under that heading.

                                TITLE IV

                        CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                             investigations

    For an additional amount for ``Investigations'' for necessary 
expenses related to the completion, or initiation and completion, of 
flood and storm damage reduction, including shore protection, studies 
which are currently authorized or which are authorized after the date of 
enactment of this Act, to reduce risk from future floods and hurricanes, 
at full Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, for high priority studies of projects in States and insular 
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon 
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated

[[Page 133 STAT. 879]]

by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly 
report directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, including 
new studies selected to be initiated using funds provided under this 
heading, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary 
expenses, $740,000,000, to remain available until expended, to construct 
flood and storm damage reduction, including shore protection, projects 
which are currently authorized or which are authorized after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and flood and storm damage reduction, including 
shore protection, projects which have signed Chief's Reports as of the 
date of enactment of this Act or which are studied using funds provided 
under the heading ``Investigations'' if the Secretary determines such 
projects to be technically feasible, economically justified, and 
environmentally acceptable, in States and insular areas that were 
impacted by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super 
Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita:  Provided, That projects 
receiving funds provided under the first proviso in ``Title IV--Corps of 
Engineers--Civil--Department of the Army--Construction'' in Public Law 
115-123 shall not be eligible for funding provided under this heading:  
Provided further, That for projects receiving funds provided under this 
heading, the provisions of Section 902 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 shall not apply to these funds:  Provided 
further, That the completion of ongoing construction projects receiving 
funds provided under this heading shall be at full Federal expense with 
respect to such funds:  Provided further, That using funds provided 
under this heading, the non-Federal cash contribution for projects other 
than ongoing construction projects shall be financed in accordance with 
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law 99-662 over a period of 
30 years from the date of completion of the project or separable 
element:  Provided further, That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be used for continuing authorities 
projects to reduce the risk of flooding and storm damage:  Provided 
further, That any projects using funds appropriated under this heading 
shall be initiated only after non-Federal interests have entered into 
binding agreements with the Secretary requiring, where applicable, the 
non-Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, 
repair, replacement, and rehabilitation costs of the project and to hold 
and save the United States free from damages due to the construction or 
operation and maintenance of the project, except for damages due to the 
fault or negligence of the United States or its contractors:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Assistant Secretary of the Army 
for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations

[[Page 133 STAT. 880]]

of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation 
and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act.

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' 
for necessary expenses to address emergency situations at Corps of 
Engineers projects and rehabilitate and repair damages to Corps of 
Engineers projects, caused by natural disasters, $575,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report 
directly to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing the allocation and obligation 
of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                        operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' for 
necessary expenses to dredge Federal navigation projects in response to, 
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers Federal projects caused by, 
natural disasters, $908,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible 
operation and maintenance costs for coastal harbors and channels, and 
for inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust 
Fund:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Assistant Secretary of the Army 
for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report directly to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to prepare for flood, hurricane 
and other natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, 
and other activities in response to such disasters, as authorized by 
law, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
funding utilized for authorized shore protection projects shall restore 
such projects to the full project profile at full Federal expense:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 133 STAT. 881]]

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For an additional amount for ``Central Utah Project Completion 
Account'', $350,000, to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Commission, to remain available until 
expended, for expenses necessary in carrying out fire remediation 
activities related to wildfires in 2018:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'', 
$15,500,000, to remain available until expended, for fire remediation 
and suppression emergency assistance related to wildfires in 2017 and 
2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                 TITLE V

                     GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

                        Real Property Activities

                         federal buildings fund

    For an additional amount, to be deposited in the Federal Buildings 
Fund, $91,200,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of Hurricane Florence for repair 
and alteration of buildings under the custody and control of the 
Administrator of General Services, and real property management and 
related activities not otherwise provided for:  
Provided, <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  That such amount may be used to 
reimburse the Fund for obligations incurred for this purpose prior to 
the date of the enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 882]]

                                TITLE VI

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

                               Coast Guard

                         operations and support

    For an additional amount for ``Operations and Support'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael, 
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Typhoon Mangkhut, 
$48,977,000; of which $46,977,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2020, and of which $2,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2023, for environmental compliance and restoration:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               procurement, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Michael, Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and 
Typhoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being 
for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 601.  In implementing section 20601 of Public Law 115-123, the 
Administrator shall include the costs associated with addressing pre-
disaster condition, undamaged components, codes and standards, and 
industry standards in the cost of repair when calculating the percentage 
in section 206.226(f) of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations:  
Provided, That amounts repurposed under this section that were 
previously designated by the Congress, respectively, as an emergency 
requirement or as being for disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 602.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under each heading in this title shall only be used for the 
purposes specifically described under that heading.

[[Page 133 STAT. 883]]

                                TITLE VII

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and Michael, 
and flooding associated with major declared disaster DR-4365, and 
calendar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used to 
restore and rebuild national wildlife refuges and increase the 
resiliency and capacity of coastal habitat and infrastructure to 
withstand storms and reduce the amount of damage caused by such storms:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          National Park Service

                       historic preservation fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Historic Preservation Fund'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2022, including costs to States and territories necessary 
to complete compliance activities required by section 306108 of title 
54, United States Code (formerly section 106 of the National Historic 
Preservation Act) and costs needed to administer the program:  Provided, 
That grants shall only be available for areas that have received a major 
disaster declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That individual grants shall not be subject to a non-Federal 
matching requirement:  Provided further, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoons 
Yutu and Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and 
volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 884]]

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar year 2018 wildfires, 
earthquake damage associated with emergency declaration EM-3410, and in 
those areas impacted by a major disaster declared pursuant to the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.) with respect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or volcanic 
eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That of this amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the repair and 
replacement of equipment and facilities damaged by disasters in 2018:  
Provided further, That, <<NOTE: Reports. Cost estimates.>>  not later 
than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations that describes the potential 
options to replace the facility damaged by the 2018 volcano disaster 
along with cost estimates and a description of how the Survey will 
provide direct access for monitoring volcanic activity and the potential 
threat to at-risk communities:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          Departmental Offices

                             Insular Affairs

                        assistance to territories

    For an additional amount for ``Technical Assistance'' for financial 
management expenses related to the consequences of Typhoon Yutu, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses related to the consequences of major disasters declared 
pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For an additional amount for ``Science and Technology'' for 
necessary expenses related to improving preparedness of the water

[[Page 133 STAT. 885]]

sector, $600,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For an additional amount for ``Leaking Underground Storage Tank 
Fund'' for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Florence and Michael, calendar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon Yutu, 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For additional amounts for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'' 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Florence and Michael and calendar year 2018 earthquakes for the 
hazardous waste financial assistance grants program, $1,500,000, to 
remain available until expended; for necessary expenses related to the 
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the hazardous waste financial 
assistance grants program and for other solid waste management 
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available until expended, provided 
that none of these funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of the 
Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants under section 106 of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, to address impacts of Hurricane Florence, Hurricane 
Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires, notwithstanding 
subsections (b), (e), and (f), of such section:  Provided, That such 
amounts are designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    For an additional amount for ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'', 
$349,400,000 to remain available until expended, of which $53,300,000 
shall be for capitalization grants for the Clean Water State Revolving 
Funds under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, and of 
which $296,100,000 shall be for capitalization grants under section 1452 
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act and section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 
funds appropriated herein shall be provided to States or Territories in 
EPA Regions 4, 9, and 10 in amounts determined by the Administrator for 
wastewater treatment works and drinking water facilities impacted by 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 
wildfires and earthquakes:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 
requirements of section 603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, for the funds 
appropriated herein, each State shall use not less than 20 percent but 
not more than 30 percent of the amount of its capitalization grants to 
provide additional subsidization to eligible recipients in the form of 
forgiveness of principal, negative interest loans or grants or any 
combination of these:  Provided further, That the Administrator shall 
retain $10,400,000 of the funds appropriated herein for grants

[[Page 133 STAT. 886]]

for drinking water facilities and waste water treatment plants impacted 
by Typhoon Yutu:  Provided further, That the funds appropriated herein 
shall be used for eligible projects whose purpose is to reduce flood or 
fire damage risk and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to rapid 
hydrologic change or natural disaster at treatment works as defined by 
section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any eligible 
facilities under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for 
other eligible tasks at such treatment works or facilities necessary to 
further such purposes:  Provided further, That the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated herein for management and oversight:  Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                      forest and rangeland research

    For an additional amount for ``Forest and Rangeland Research'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended for the forest inventory and analysis program:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       state and private forestry

    For an additional amount for ``State and Private Forestry'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of this amount 
$21,000,000 shall be used for hazardous fuels management activities:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 887]]

                   capital improvement and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and Maintenance'' 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        wildland fire management

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$720,271,000, to remain available through September 30, 2022, for urgent 
wildland fire suppression operations:  Provided, That such funds shall 
be solely available to be transferred to and merged with other 
appropriations accounts from which funds were previously transferred for 
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018 to fully repay those 
amounts:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      National Institutes of Health

           national institute of environmental health sciences

    For an additional amount for ``National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences'' for necessary expenses in carrying out activities set 
forth in section 311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 
126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 
related to the consequences of major disasters declared pursuant to the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 701. <<NOTE: Deadline. Operating plans.>>   Not later than 45 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the agencies receiving 
funds appropriated by this title shall provide a detailed operating plan 
of anticipated uses of funds made available in this title by State and 
Territory, and by program, project, and activity, to the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That no such funds shall be obligated before 
the operating plans are provided to the Committees:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  That such plans shall be updated, 
including obligations to date, and submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations every 60 days until all such funds are expended.

[[Page 133 STAT. 888]]

                               TITLE VIII

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Training and Employment Services'', 
$50,000,000, for the dislocated workers assistance national reserve for 
necessary expenses directly related to the consequences of Hurricanes 
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires 
and earthquakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and 
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 (referred to under this heading 
as ``covered disaster or emergency''), to remain available through 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may transfer 
up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any other Department of Labor account 
for reconstruction and recovery needs, including worker protection 
activities:  Provided further, That these sums may be used to replace 
grant funds previously obligated to the impacted areas:  Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be transferred to ``Office of Inspector 
General'' for oversight of activities responding to such covered 
disaster or emergency:  Provided further, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

    payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to States for the Child Care 
and Development Block Grant'', $30,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2021, for necessary expenses directly related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super 
Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires and earthquakes occurring in calendar year 
2018 and tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in those 
areas for which a major disaster or emergency has been declared under 
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191):  Provided, That the 
Secretary shall allocate such funds based on assessed need 
notwithstanding sections 658J and 658O of the Child Care and Development 
Block Grant Act of 1990:  Provided further, That such funds may be used 
for costs of renovating, repairing, or rebuilding child care facilities 
without regard to section 658F(b) or 658G of such Act and with amounts 
allocated for such purposes excluded from the calculation of percentages 
under subsection 658E(c)(3) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 658J(c) of such Act, funds allotted to a State 
and used for renovating, repairing, or rebuilding child care facilities 
may be obligated by the State

[[Page 133 STAT. 889]]

in that fiscal year or the succeeding three fiscal years:  Provided 
further, That Federal interest provisions will not apply to the 
renovation or rebuilding of privately-owned family child care homes, and 
the Secretary shall develop parameters on the use of funds for family 
child care homes:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Time period.>>  That the 
Secretary shall not retain Federal interest after a period of 10 years 
in any facility renovated, repaired, or rebuilt with funds appropriated 
under this paragraph:  Provided further, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall not be available for costs that are reimbursed by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, under a contract for insurance, or 
by self-insurance:  Provided further, That obligations incurred for the 
purposes provided herein prior to the date of enactment of this Act may 
be charged to funds appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                 children and families services programs

    For an additional amount for ``Children and Families Services 
Programs'', $90,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2021, 
for necessary expenses directly related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, 
and wildfires and earthquakes occurring in calendar year 2018 and 
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in those areas for 
which a major disaster or emergency has been declared under section 401 
or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191):  Provided, That $55,000,000 
shall be for Head Start programs, including making payments under the 
Head Start Act:  Provided further, That none of funds provided in the 
previous proviso shall be included in the calculation of the ``base 
grant'' in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is defined in sections 
640(a)(7)(A), 641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start Act:  
Provided further, That funds provided in the second previous proviso are 
not subject to the allocation requirements of section 640(a) of the Head 
Start Act:  Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be for payments to 
States, territories, and tribes for activities authorized under subpart 
1 of part B of title IV of the Social Security Act, with such funds 
allocated based on assessed need notwithstanding section 423 of such Act 
and paid without regard to percentage limitations in subsections (a) or 
(e) in section 424 of such Act:  Provided further, That $25,000,000 
shall be for payments to States, territories, and tribes authorized 
under the Community Services Block Grant Act, with such funds allocated 
based on assessed need notwithstanding sections 674(b), 675A, and 675B 
of such Act:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 676(b)(8) 
of the Community Services Block Grant Act, each State, territory, or 
tribe may allocate funds to eligible entities based on assessed need:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph shall not be 
available for costs that are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, under a contract for insurance, or by self-insurance: 
 Provided further, That up to $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available for Federal administrative expenses:  
Provided further, That obligations incurred for the purposes provided 
herein prior to the date

[[Page 133 STAT. 890]]

of enactment of this Act may be charged to funds appropriated under this 
heading:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                         Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', $201,000,000, to remain available through September 
30, 2020, for necessary expenses directly related to the consequences of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, 
and wildfires and earthquakes occurring in calendar year 2018 and 
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in those areas for 
which a major disaster or emergency has been declared under section 401 
or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading 
as ``covered disaster or emergency''), including activities authorized 
under section 319(a) of the Public Health Service Act (referred to in 
this Act as the ``PHS Act''):  Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$80,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Health Resources and Services 
Administration--Primary Health Care'' for expenses directly related to a 
covered disaster or emergency for disaster response and recovery, for 
the Health Centers Program under section 330 of the PHS Act, including 
alteration, renovation, construction, equipment, and other capital 
improvement costs as necessary to meet the needs of areas affected by a 
covered disaster or emergency:  Provided further, That the time 
limitation in section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds 
made available under the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That of 
the amount provided, not less than $20,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Centers for Disease Control and Prevention--CDC-Wide Activities and 
Program Support'' for response, recovery, mitigation, and other expenses 
directly related to a covered disaster or emergency:  Provided further, 
That of the amount provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration--Health Surveillance and Program Support'' for grants, 
contracts, and cooperative agreements for behavioral health treatment, 
treatment of substance use disorders, crisis counseling, and other 
related helplines, and for other similar programs to provide support to 
individuals impacted by a covered disaster or emergency: Provided 
further, That of the amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be transferred to ``Office of the 
Secretary--Office of Inspector General'' for oversight of activities 
responding to such covered disasters or emergencies:  Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 891]]

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                      hurricane education recovery

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Hurricane Education Recovery'' for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires, 
earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions occurring in calendar year 2018 and 
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in those areas for 
which a major disaster or emergency has been declared under section 401 
or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading 
as ``covered disaster or emergency''), $165,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2020, for assisting in meeting the educational 
needs of individuals affected by a covered disaster or 
emergency: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided, That such assistance may 
be provided through any of the programs authorized under this heading in 
title VIII of subdivision 1 of division B of Public Law 115-123 (as 
amended by Public Law 115-141), as determined by the Secretary of 
Education, and subject to the terms and conditions that applied to those 
programs, except that references to dates and school years in Public Law 
115-123 shall be deemed to be the corresponding dates and school years 
for the covered disaster or emergency:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Determination. Notification. Deadline.>>  That the 
Secretary of Education may determine the amounts to be used for each 
such program and shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate of these amounts not later than 
7 days prior to obligation:  Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the 
funds made available under this heading, to remain available until 
expended, shall be transferred to the Office of the Inspector General of 
the Department of Education for oversight of activities supported with 
funds appropriated under this heading, and up to $1,000,000 of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be for program administration:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 801. <<NOTE: Deadline. Spend plan. Cost estimates.>>   Not 
later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education shall provide a detailed 
spend plan of anticipated uses of funds made available in this title, 
including estimated personnel and administrative costs, to the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided <<NOTE: Time period.>> , That 
such plans shall be updated and submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations every 60 days until all funds are expended or expire.

    Sec. 802. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and (E)'' and 
        inserting ``(E), and (F)'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``and (E)'' and inserting ``and (F)'';
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F);

[[Page 133 STAT. 892]]

            (4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the following:
                    ``(E) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Subject to 
                subparagraph (F), for the period beginning January 1, 
                2019, and ending September 30, 2019, the amount of the 
                increase otherwise provided under subparagraph 
                (A) <<NOTE: Northern Mariana Islands.>>  for the 
                Northern Mariana Islands shall be further increased by 
                $36,000,000.''; and
            (5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by paragraph (3) of 
        this section)--
                    (A) by striking ``title XIX, during'' and inserting 
                ``title XIX--
                          ``(i) during'';
                    (B) by striking ``and (D)'' and inserting ``, (D), 
                and (E)'';
                    (C) by striking ``and the Virgin Islands'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``, the Virgin Islands, 
                and the Northern Mariana Islands'';
                    (D) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                ``; and''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(ii) <<NOTE: Time period. Guam. American 
                      Samoa.>>  for the period beginning January 1, 
                      2019, and ending September 30, 2019, with respect 
                      to payments to Guam and American Samoa from the 
                      additional funds provided under subparagraph (A), 
                      the Secretary shall increase the Federal medical 
                      assistance percentage or other rate that would 
                      otherwise apply to such payments to 100 
                      percent.''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) <<NOTE: Deadline. Guam. American 
                Samoa. Plans.>>  Not later than September 30, 2019, Guam 
                and American Samoa shall each submit a plan to the 
                Secretary outlining the steps each such territory shall 
                take to collect and report reliable data to the 
                Transformed Medicaid Statistical Information System (T-
                MSIS) (or a successor system).''.

    (b) The amounts provided by the amendments made by subsection (a) 
are designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE IX

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                    Government Accountability Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $10,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for audits and investigations 
related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and 
Mangkhut, the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and volcano 
eruptions, and other disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
seq.):  Provided, <<NOTE: Deadline. Spend plan. Funding estimates.>>  
That, not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Government Accountability Office shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate

[[Page 133 STAT. 893]]

a spend plan specifying funding estimates for audits and investigations 
of any such declared disasters occurring in 2018 and identifying funding 
estimates or carryover balances, if any, that may be available for 
audits and investigations of any other such declared disasters:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                 TITLE X

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2023, for planning and design, and construction expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine Corps 
installations:  Provided, That none of the funds shall be available for 
obligation until the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate receive a master plan for the 
installations:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure 
plans.>>  That, not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading:  
Provided further, That such funds may be obligated or expended for 
planning and design and military construction projects not otherwise 
authorized by law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for 
planning and design, and construction expenses related to the 
consequences of Hurricane Michael and floods occurring in calendar year 
2019:  Provided, That none of the funds shall be available for 
obligation until the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate receive a basing plan and future mission 
requirements for installations significantly damaged by Hurricane 
Michael:  Provided further <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>> , That, 
not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Air Force, or his designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading:  Provided 
further, That such funds may be obligated or expended for planning and 
design and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by 
law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 894]]

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'', $42,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2023, for 
necessary expenses related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence 
and Michael:  Provided, That none of the funds shall be available for 
obligation until the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate receive form 1391 for each specific 
request:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Expenditure plan.>>  That, 
not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Army National Guard, or his designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading:  Provided 
further, That such funds may be obligated or expended for planning and 
design and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by 
law:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                     Veterans Health Administration

                           medical facilities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Medical Facilities'', $3,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses 
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael and 
Typhoons Mangkhut and Yutu:  Provided, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon determination that such action 
is necessary to address needs as a result of the consequences of 
Hurricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons Mangkhut and Yutu, may 
transfer such funds to any discretionary account of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Notice.>>  That before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
notice thereof to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Expenditure 
plan.>>  That none of these funds shall be available for obligation 
until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under each heading within the ``Department of Defense'' in 
this title shall only be used for the purposes specifically described 
under that heading.

[[Page 133 STAT. 895]]

                                TITLE XI

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Transit Administration

             public transportation emergency relief program

    For an additional amount for the ``Public Transportation Emergency 
Relief Program'' as authorized under section 5324 of title 49, United 
States Code, $10,542,000 to remain available until expended, for transit 
systems affected by major declared disasters occurring in calendar year 
2018:  Provided, That not more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the 
funds for public transportation emergency relief shall be available for 
administrative expenses and ongoing program management oversight as 
authorized under sections 5334 and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be 
in addition to any other appropriations for such purpose:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    Of the amounts made available for ``Federal Aviation 
Administration--Operations'' in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act 
of 2018 (Public Law 115-123), up to $18,000,000 shall also be available 
for necessary expenses related to the consequences of major declared 
disasters occurring in calendar year 2018:  Provided, That amounts 
repurposed under this heading that were previously designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                        emergency relief program

    For an additional amount for the Emergency Relief Program as 
authorized under section 125 of title 23, United States Code, 
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 133 STAT. 896]]

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community Development Fund'', 
$2,431,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses for activities authorized under title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to 
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infrastructure and 
housing, economic revitalization, and mitigation in the most impacted 
and distressed areas resulting from a major disaster that occurred in 
2018 or 2019 (except as otherwise provided under this heading) pursuant 
to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided, That funds shall be awarded 
directly to the State, unit of general local government, or Indian tribe 
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974) at the discretion of the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading 
$431,000,000 shall be allocated to meet unmet infrastructure needs for 
grantees that received allocations for disasters that occurred in 2017 
under this heading of division B of Public Law 115-56 and title XI of 
subdivision 1 of division B of Public Law 115-123, of which $331,442,114 
shall be allocated to those grantees affected by Hurricane Maria:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Determination.>>  That of the amounts provided 
in the previous proviso, the Secretary's determination of unmet needs 
for infrastructure shall not take into account mitigation-specific 
allocations:  Provided further, That any amounts allocated pursuant to 
the previous two provisos to any such grantee shall not be available for 
draw down and expenditure by a grantee that has entered into alternative 
procedures under section 428 of the Stafford Act as of the date of 
enactment of this Act until such grantee has reached a final agreement 
on all fixed cost estimates within the timeline provided by the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Certification.>>  That prior to making any grant of 
funds provided in the previous three provisos, the Secretary must 
receive from the grantee information that allows the Secretary to 
certify that such grantee has in place proficient financial controls and 
procurement processes and has established adequate procedures to prevent 
any duplication of benefits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), 
to ensure timely expenditure of funds, to maintain comprehensive 
websites regarding all disaster recovery activities assisted with these 
funds, and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Review.>>  That of the amounts made available 
under this heading in Public Law 115-123 and transferred to the Office 
of Inspector General, no less than $6,000,000 shall be for necessary 
costs of overseeing and auditing funds made available to grantees 
affected by Hurricane Maria, including a review of grant expenditure 
rates:  Provided further, That any funds made available under this 
heading and under the same heading in Public Law 115-254 that remain 
available, after the funds under such headings have been allocated

[[Page 133 STAT. 897]]

for necessary expenses for activities authorized under such headings, 
shall be allocated to grantees, for mitigation activities in the most 
impacted and distressed areas resulting from a major disaster that 
occurred in 2018:  Provided further, That such allocations shall be made 
in the same proportion that the amount of funds each grantee received 
under this Act and the same heading in division I of Public Law 115-254 
bears to the amount of all funds provided to all grantees that received 
allocations for disasters that occurred in 2018:  Provided further, That 
of the amounts made available under the text preceding the first proviso 
under this heading and under the same heading in Public Law 115-254, the 
Secretary shall allocate to all such grantees an aggregate amount not 
less than 33 percent of the sum of such amounts of funds within 120 days 
after the enactment of this Act based on the best available data, and 
shall allocate no less than 100 percent of such funds by no later than 
180 days after the enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall not prohibit the use of funds made available under this 
heading and the same heading in Public Law 115-254 for non-Federal share 
as authorized by section 105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):  Provided further, That 
of the amounts made available under this heading, grantees may establish 
grant programs to assist small businesses for working capital purposes 
to aid in recovery:  Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification.>>  That as 
a condition of making any grant, the Secretary shall certify in advance 
that such grantee has in place proficient financial controls and 
procurement processes and has established adequate procedures to prevent 
any duplication of benefits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), 
to ensure timely expenditure of funds, to maintain comprehensive 
websites regarding all disaster recovery activities assisted with these 
funds, and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:  
Provided further, That with respect to any such duplication of benefits, 
the Secretary shall act in accordance with section 1210 of Public Law 
115-254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Website. Public 
information. Criteria. Determination.>>  That the Secretary shall 
require grantees to maintain on a public website information containing 
common reporting criteria established by the Department that permits 
individuals and entities awaiting assistance and the general public to 
see how all grant funds are used, including copies of all relevant 
procurement documents, grantee administrative contracts and details of 
ongoing procurement processes, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Plan. Criteria.>>  That prior to the obligation of 
funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary for approval 
detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria for 
eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic 
revitalization, and mitigation in the most impacted and distressed 
areas:  Provided further, That such funds may not be used for activities 
reimbursed by, or for which funds have been made available by, the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers, in 
excess of the authorized amount of the project or its components:  
Provided further, That funds allocated under this heading shall not be 
considered relevant to the non-disaster formula allocations made 
pursuant to section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act

[[Page 133 STAT. 898]]

of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306):  Provided further, That a State, unit of 
general local government, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 percent of its 
allocation for administrative costs:  Provided further, That the first 
proviso under this heading in the Supplemental Appropriations for 
Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115-
254) <<NOTE: 132 Stat. 3531.>>  is amended by striking ``State or unit 
of general local government'' and inserting ``State, unit of general 
local government, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined in section 
102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5302))'':  Provided further, That the sixth proviso under this heading 
in the Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 
2018 (division I of Public Law 115-254) is amended by striking ``State 
or subdivision thereof'' and inserting ``State, unit of general local 
government, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined in section 102 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))'':  
Provided further <<NOTE: Waiver authority.>> , That in administering the 
funds under this heading, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any 
statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with 
the obligation by the Secretary or the use by the recipient of these 
funds (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), if the 
Secretary finds that good cause exists for the waiver or alternative 
requirement and such waiver or alternative requirement would not be 
inconsistent with the overall purpose of title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, recipients of funds provided 
under this heading that use such funds to supplement Federal assistance 
provided under section 402, 403, 404, 406, 407, 408(c)(4), or 502 of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without review or public comment, any 
environmental review, approval, or permit performed by a Federal agency, 
and such adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of the recipient 
with respect to such environmental review, approval or permit:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding section 104(g)(2) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the Secretary 
may, upon receipt of a request for release of funds and certification, 
immediately approve the release of funds for an activity or project 
assisted under this heading if the recipient has adopted an 
environmental review, approval or permit under the preceding proviso or 
the activity or project is categorically excluded from review under the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq.): <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication. Notice. Deadline.>>   
Provided further, That the Secretary shall publish via notice in the 
Federal Register any waiver, or alternative requirement, to any statute 
or regulation that the Secretary administers pursuant to title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days 
before the effective date of such waiver or alternative requirement:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, 
up to $5,000,000 shall be made available for capacity building and 
technical assistance, including assistance on contracting and 
procurement processes, to support States, units of general local 
government, or Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that receive 
allocations pursuant to this heading, received disaster recovery 
allocations under the same heading in Public Law 115-254, or may receive 
similar allocations for disaster recovery in

[[Page 133 STAT. 899]]

future appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading and under the same heading in Public Law 
115-254, up to $2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate, to 
``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Program Office Salaries 
and Expenses--Community Planning and Development'' for necessary costs, 
including information technology costs, of administering and overseeing 
the obligation and expenditure of amounts under this heading:  Provided 
further, That the amount specified in the preceding proviso shall be 
combined with funds appropriated under the same heading and for the same 
purpose in Public Law 115-254 and the aggregate of such amounts shall be 
available for any of the same such purposes specified under this heading 
or the same heading in Public Law 115-254 without limitation:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as being for an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided 
further, That amounts repurposed under this heading that were previously 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 1101. (a) Amounts previously made available for activities 
authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster relief, long-term 
recovery, restoration of infrastructure and housing, economic 
revitalization, and mitigation in the most impacted and distressed areas 
resulting from a major disaster, including funds provided under section 
145 of division C of Public Law 114-223, section 192 of division C of 
Public Law 114-223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of Public 
Law 114-254), section 421 of division K of Public Law 115-31, and any 
mitigation funding provided under the heading ``Department of Housing 
and Urban Development--Community Planning and Development--Community 
Development Fund'' of Public Law 115-123, that were allocated in 
response to Hurricane Matthew, may be used interchangeably and without 
limitation for the same activities in the most impacted and distressed 
areas related to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any funds provided 
under the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--
Community Planning and Development--Community Development Fund'' in this 
Act or in division I of Public Law 115-254 that are allocated in 
response to Hurricane Florence may be used interchangeably and without 
limitation for the same activities in the most impacted and distressed 
areas related to Hurricane Matthew. <<NOTE: Revised plans.>>  Until HUD 
publishes the Federal Register Notice implementing this provision, 
grantees may submit for HUD approval revised plans for the use of funds 
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand the eligible beneficiaries of 
existing programs contained in such previously approved plans to include 
those impacted by Hurricane Florence. Approval of any such revised plans 
shall include the execution of revised grant terms and conditions as 
necessary. Once the implementing Notice is published,

[[Page 133 STAT. 900]]

any additional action plan revisions shall follow the requirements 
contained therein.

    (b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 5322.>>  Amounts made available for 
administrative costs for activities authorized under title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) 
related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, restoration of 
infrastructure and housing, economic revitalization, and mitigation in 
the most impacted and distressed areas under this Act or any future Act, 
and amounts previously provided under section 420 of division L of 
Public Law 114-113, section 145 of division C of Public Law 114-223, 
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114-223 (as added by section 
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114-254), section 421 of division K 
of Public Law 115-31, and under the heading ``Department of Housing and 
Urban Development--Community Planning and Development--Community 
Development Fund'' of division B of Public Law 115-56, Public Law 115-
123, and Public Law 115-254, shall be available for eligible 
administrative costs of the grantee related to any disaster relief 
funding identified in this subsection without regard to the particular 
disaster appropriation from which such funds originated.

    (c) The additional uses pursuant to this section for amounts that 
were previously designated by the Congress, respectively, as an 
emergency requirement or as being for disaster relief pursuant to the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 1102. <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication. Deadline.>>   Of 
all amounts made available for mitigation activities under the heading 
``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Community Development 
Fund'' in Public Law 115-123, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal 
Register the allocations to all eligible grantees, and the necessary 
administrative requirements applicable to such allocations within 90 
days after enactment of this Act:
            (1) <<NOTE: Reviews. Deadlines.>>  For any plans or 
        amendments addressing the use of any funds provided under Public 
        Law 115-123 and received by the Secretary prior to December 22, 
        2018, the Secretary shall review pending amendments within 15 
        days of enactment of this Act and pending plans within 30 days 
        of enactment of this Act;
            (2) After the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        may not apply the statutory waiver or alternative requirement 
        authority provided by Public Law 115-123 to extend or otherwise 
        alter existing statutory and regulatory provisions governing the 
        timeline for review of required grantee plans:

  Provided, That any amounts allocated pursuant to this section to any 
such grantee shall not be available for draw down and expenditure by a 
grantee that has entered into alternative procedures under section 428 
of the Stafford Act as of the date of enactment of this Act until such 
grantee has reached a final agreement on all fixed cost estimates within 
the timeline provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency:  
Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification.>>  That prior to making any 
grant of funds allocated pursuant to this section, the Secretary must 
receive from the grantee information that allows the Secretary to 
certify that such grantee has in place

[[Page 133 STAT. 901]]

proficient financial controls and procurement processes and has 
established adequate procedures to prevent any duplication of benefits 
as defined by section 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure 
of funds, to maintain comprehensive websites regarding all disaster 
recovery activities assisted with these funds, and to detect and prevent 
waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:  Provided further, That amounts 
repurposed under this heading that were previously designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE XII

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 1201.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act 
is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
    Sec. 1202.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 1203.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts 
shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to 
such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
    Sec. 1204. <<NOTE: President.>>   Each amount designated in this Act 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or transferred, if 
applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 1205.  For purposes of this Act, the consequences or impacts of 
any hurricane shall include damages caused by the storm at any time 
during the entirety of its duration as a cyclone, as defined by the 
National Hurricane Center.
    Sec. 1206. <<NOTE: President.>>   Any amount appropriated by this 
Act, designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this Act shall 
retain such designation.

    Sec. 1207. (a) Section 1309(a) of the National Flood Insurance Act 
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4016(a)) is amended by striking ``June 14, 2019'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2019''.
    (b) Section 1319 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 4026) is amended by striking ``June 14, 2019'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2019''.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 USC 4016 note.>>  If this Act is 
enacted after June 14, 2019, the amendments made by subsections (a) and 
(b) shall take effect as if enacted on June 14, 2019.

[[Page 133 STAT. 902]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Additional Supplemental 
Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019''.

    Approved June 6, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2157:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            May 10, considered and passed House.
            May 23, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            June 3, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>