[116th Congress Public Law 139]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 619]]

                      PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM 
                     AND HEALTH CARE ENHANCEMENT ACT

[[Page 134 STAT. 620]]

Public Law 116-139
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior, environment, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 24, 2020 -  [H.R. 266]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Paycheck 
Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. 15 USC 9001 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Paycheck Protection Program and 
Health Care Enhancement Act''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.

                   DIVISION A--SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS

Sec. 101. Amendments to the Paycheck Protection Program, economic injury 
           disaster loans, and emergency grants.
Sec. 102. Emergency designation.

DIVISION B--ADDITIONAL EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS FOR CORONAVIRUS RESPONSE

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

                   DIVISION A--SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS

SEC. 101. AMENDMENTS TO THE PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM, ECONOMIC 
                        INJURY DISASTER LOANS, AND EMERGENCY 
                        GRANTS.

    (a) Increased Authority for Commitments and Appropriations for 
Paycheck Protection Program.--Title I of division A of the Coronavirus 
Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 293.>>  in section 1102(b)(1), by 
        striking ``$349,000,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$659,000,000,000''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 301.>>  in section 1107(a)(1), by 
        striking ``$349,000,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$670,335,000,000''.

    (b) Increased Authorization for Emergency EIDL Grants.--Section 
1110(e)(7) of division A of the Coronavirus Aid,

[[Page 134 STAT. 621]]

Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
308.>>  is amended by striking ``$10,000,000,000'' and inserting 
``$20,000,000,000''.

    (c) Eligibility of Agricultural Enterprises for Economic Injury 
Disaster Loans and Emergency Grants.--Section 1110(a)(2) of division A 
of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 
116-136) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 306.>>  is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) an agricultural enterprise (as defined in 
                section 18(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
                647(b)) with not more than 500 employees.''.

    (d) Set Aside for Insured Depository Institutions, Credit Unions, 
and Community Financial Institutions.--Section 7(a)(36) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (viii), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in clause (ix), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) <<NOTE: Definitions.>>  by adding at the end the 
                following:
                          ``(x) the term `community development 
                      financial institution' has the meaning given the 
                      term in section 103 of the Riegle Community 
                      Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 
                      (12 U.S.C. 4702));
                          ``(xi) the term `community financial 
                      institutions' means--
                                    ``(I) a community development 
                                financial institution;
                                    ``(II) a minority depository 
                                institution, as defined in section 308 
                                of the Financial Institutions Reform, 
                                Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 
                                (12 U.S.C. 1463 note);
                                    ``(III) a development company that 
                                is certified under title V of the Small 
                                Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 
                                U.S.C. 695 et seq.); and
                                    ``(IV) an intermediary, as defined 
                                in section 7(m)(11); and
                          ``(xii) the term `credit union' means a State 
                      credit union or a Federal credit union, as those 
                      terms are defined, respectively, in section 101 of 
                      the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).''; 
                      and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(S) Set-aside for insured depository institutions, 
                credit unions, and community financial institutions.--
                          ``(i) Insured depository institutions and 
                      credit unions.--In making loan guarantees under 
                      this paragraph after the date of enactment of this 
                      clause, the Administrator shall guarantee not less 
                      than $30,000,000,000 in loans made by--
                                    ``(I) insured depository 
                                institutions with consolidated assets of 
                                not less than $10,000,000,000 and less 
                                than $50,000,000,000; and

[[Page 134 STAT. 622]]

                                    ``(II) credit unions with 
                                consolidated assets of not less than 
                                $10,000,000,000 and less than 
                                $50,000,000,000.
                          ``(ii) Community financial institutions, small 
                      insured depository institutions, and credit 
                      unions.--In making loan guarantees under this 
                      paragraph after the date of enactment of this 
                      clause, the Administrator shall guarantee not less 
                      than $30,000,000,000 in loans made by--
                                    ``(I) community financial 
                                institutions;
                                    ``(II) insured depository 
                                institutions with consolidated assets of 
                                less than $10,000,000,000; and
                                    ``(III) credit unions with 
                                consolidated assets of less than 
                                $10,000,000,000.''.
SEC. 102. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.

    (a) In General.--The amounts provided under this division are 
designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the 
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
    (b) Designation in Senate.--In the Senate, this division is 
designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4112(a) of H. 
Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 2018.

  DIVISION <<NOTE: Additional Emergency Appropriations for Coronavirus 
  Response.>>  B--ADDITIONAL EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS FOR CORONAVIRUS 
RESPONSE

     The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', $75,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or 
internationally, for necessary expenses to reimburse, through grants or 
other mechanisms, eligible health care providers for health care related 
expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to coronavirus:  
Provided, That these funds may not be used to reimburse expenses or 
losses that have been reimbursed from other sources or that other 
sources are obligated to reimburse:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports. Records. Determination.>>  recipients of payments 
under this paragraph in this Act shall submit reports and maintain 
documentation as the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to 
in this paragraph as the ``Secretary'') determines are needed to ensure 
compliance with conditions that are imposed by this paragraph in this 
Act for such payments, and such reports and documentation shall be in 
such form, with such content, and in such time as

[[Page 134 STAT. 623]]

the Secretary may prescribe for such purpose:  Provided further, That 
``eligible <<NOTE: Definition.>>  health care providers'' means public 
entities, Medicare or Medicaid enrolled suppliers and providers, and 
such for-profit entities and not-for-profit entities not otherwise 
described in this proviso as the Secretary may specify, within the 
United States (including territories), that provide diagnoses, testing, 
or care for individuals with possible or actual cases of COVID-19:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Review.>>  the Secretary shall, on a 
rolling basis, review applications and make payments under this 
paragraph in this Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph in this Act shall be available for building or 
construction of temporary structures, leasing of properties, medical 
supplies and equipment including personal protective equipment and 
testing supplies, increased workforce and trainings, emergency operation 
centers, retrofitting facilities, and surge 
capacity: <<NOTE: Definition.>>   Provided further, That, in this 
paragraph, the term ``payment'' means a pre-payment, prospective 
payment, or retrospective payment, as determined appropriate by the 
Secretary:  Provided further, That payments under this paragraph in this 
Act shall be made in consideration of the most efficient payment systems 
practicable to provide emergency payment:  Provided further, That to be 
eligible for a payment under this paragraph in this Act, an eligible 
health care provider shall submit to the Secretary an application that 
includes a statement justifying the need of the provider for the payment 
and the eligible health care provider shall have a valid tax 
identification number:  Provided further, That, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  not 
later than 3 years after final payments are made under this paragraph in 
this Act, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health 
and Human Services shall transmit a final report on audit findings with 
respect to this program to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Audits.>>  nothing in this paragraph limits the authority 
of the Inspector General or the Comptroller General to conduct audits of 
interim payments at an earlier date:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on obligation of funds, including obligations to such eligible 
health care providers summarized by State of the payment receipt:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Updates. Time period.>>  such reports 
shall be updated and submitted to such Committees every 60 days until 
funds are expended:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', $25,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or 
internationally, for necessary expenses to research, develop, validate, 
manufacture, purchase, administer, and expand capacity for COVID-19 
tests to effectively monitor and suppress COVID-19, including tests for 
both active infection and prior exposure, including molecular, antigen, 
and serological tests, the manufacturing, procurement and distribution 
of tests, testing equipment and testing supplies, including personal 
protective equipment needed for administering tests, the development and 
validation of rapid, molecular point-of-care tests, and other tests, 
support for workforce, epidemiology, to scale up academic, commercial,

[[Page 134 STAT. 624]]

public health, and hospital laboratories, to conduct surveillance and 
contact tracing, support development of COVID-19 testing plans, and 
other related activities related to COVID-19 testing:  Provided, That of 
the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this Act, not less than 
$11,000,000,000 shall be for States, localities, territories, tribes, 
tribal organizations, urban Indian health organizations, or health 
service providers to tribes for necessary expenses to develop, purchase, 
administer, process, and analyze COVID-19 tests, including support for 
workforce, epidemiology, use by employers or in other settings, scale up 
of testing by public health, academic, commercial, and hospital 
laboratories, and community-based testing sites, health care facilities, 
and other entities engaged in COVID-19 testing, conduct surveillance, 
trace contacts, and other related activities related to COVID-19 
testing:  Provided further, That of the amount identified in the 
preceding proviso, not less than $2,000,000,000 shall be allocated to 
States, localities, and territories according to the formula that 
applied to the Public Health Emergency Preparedness cooperative 
agreement in fiscal year 2019, not less than $4,250,000,000 shall be 
allocated to States, localities, and territories according to a formula 
methodology that is based on relative number of cases of COVID-19, and 
not less than $750,000,000 shall be allocated in coordination with the 
Director of the Indian Health Service, to tribes, tribal organizations, 
urban Indian health organizations, or health service providers to 
tribes:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Secretary'') may 
satisfy the funding thresholds outlined in the first and second provisos 
under this paragraph in this Act by making awards through other grant or 
cooperative agreement mechanisms:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline. Testing plan.>>  not later than 30 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Governor or designee of each State, 
locality, territory, tribe, or tribal organization receiving funds 
pursuant to this Act shall submit to the Secretary its plan for COVID-19 
testing, including goals for the remainder of calendar year 2020, to 
include: (1) the number of tests needed, month-by-month, to include 
diagnostic, serological, and other tests, as 
appropriate; <<NOTE: Estimates.>>  (2) month-by-month estimates of 
laboratory and testing capacity, including related to workforce, 
equipment and supplies, and available tests; and (3) a description of 
how the State, locality, territory, tribe, or tribal organization will 
use its resources for testing, including as it relates to easing any 
COVID-19 community mitigation policies:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Methodologies.>>  the Secretary shall submit such formula 
methodology identified in the first proviso under this paragraph in this 
Act to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate one day prior to awarding such funds:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  such funds identified in the first and second 
provisos under this paragraph in this Act shall be allocated within 30 
days of the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That of 
the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this Act, not less than 
$1,000,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention--CDC-Wide Activities and Program Support'' for 
surveillance, epidemiology, laboratory capacity expansion, contact 
tracing, public health data surveillance and analytics infrastructure 
modernization, disseminating information about testing, and workforce 
support necessary to expand and improve COVID-19 testing:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in

[[Page 134 STAT. 625]]

this Act, not less than $306,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
``National Institutes of Health--National Cancer Institute'' to develop, 
validate, improve, and implement serological testing and associated 
technologies for the purposes specified under this paragraph in this 
Act:  Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this 
paragraph in this Act, not less than $500,000,000 shall be transferred 
to the ``National Institutes of Health--National Institute of Biomedical 
Imaging and Bioengineering'' to accelerate research, development, and 
implementation of point of care and other rapid testing related to 
coronavirus:  Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under 
this paragraph in this Act, not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``National Institutes of Health--Office of the 
Director'' to develop, validate, improve, and implement testing and 
associated technologies; to accelerate research, development, and 
implementation of point of care and other rapid testing; and for 
partnerships with governmental and non-governmental entities to 
research, develop, and implement the activities outlined in this 
proviso:  Provided further, That funds in the preceding proviso may be 
transferred to the accounts of the Institutes and Centers of the 
National Institutes of Health (referred to in this paragraph as the 
``NIH'') for the purposes specified in the preceding proviso:  Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided in the preceding proviso 
is in addition to all other transfer authority available to the NIH:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated under this paragraph 
in this Act, not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be available to the 
Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for necessary 
expenses of advanced research, development, manufacturing, production, 
and purchase of diagnostic, serologic, or other COVID-19 tests or 
related supplies, and other activities related to COVID-19 testing at 
the discretion of the Secretary:  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this paragraph in this Act, $22,000,000, shall be 
transferred to the ``Department of Health and Human Services--Food and 
Drug Administration--Salaries and Expenses'' to support activities 
associated with diagnostic, serological, antigen, and other tests, and 
related administrative activities:  Provided further, That the amount 
appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may be used for grants for 
the rent, lease, purchase, acquisition, construction, alteration, 
renovation, or equipping of non-federally owned facilities to improve 
preparedness and response capability at the State and local level for 
diagnostic, serologic, or other COVID-19 tests, or related supplies:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Determination. Contracts.>>  the amount 
appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may be used for 
construction, alteration, renovation, or equipping of non-federally 
owned facilities for the production of diagnostic, serologic, or other 
COVID-19 tests, or related supplies, where the Secretary determines that 
such a contract is necessary to secure, or for the production of, 
sufficient amounts of such tests or related supplies:  Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may be used for 
purchase of medical supplies and equipment, including personal 
protective equipment and testing supplies to be used for administering 
tests, increased workforce and trainings, emergency operation centers, 
and surge capacity for diagnostic, serologic, or other COVID-19 tests, 
or related supplies:  Provided further, That products purchased with 
funds appropriated under this paragraph in this Act may, at the 
discretion of the Secretary, be deposited in

[[Page 134 STAT. 626]]

the Strategic National Stockpile under section 319F-2 of the Public 
Health Service Act:  Provided further, That of the amount appropriated 
under this paragraph in this Act, $600,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Health Resources and Services Administration--Primary Health Care'' 
for grants under the Health Centers program, as defined by section 330 
of the Public Health Service Act, and for grants to federally qualified 
health centers, as defined in section 1861(aa)(4)(B) of the Social 
Security Act:  Provided further, That sections 330(e)(6)(A)(iii), 
330(e)(6)(B)(iii), and 330(r)(2)(B) of the Public Health Service Act 
shall not apply to funds provided under the previous proviso:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this 
Act, $225,000,000 shall be used to provide additional funding for COVID-
19 testing and related expenses, through grants or other mechanisms, to 
rural health clinics as defined in section 1861(aa)(2) of the Social 
Security Act, with such funds also available to such entities for 
building or construction of temporary structures, leasing of properties, 
and retrofitting facilities as necessary to support COVID-19 testing:  
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts. Requirements.>>  such funds 
shall be distributed using the procedures developed for the Provider 
Relief Fund authorized under the third paragraph under this heading in 
division B of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act 
(Public Law 116-136); may be distributed using contracts or agreements 
established for such program; and shall be subject to the process 
requirements applicable to such program:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may specify a minimum amount for each eligible entity 
accepting assistance under the two previous provisos:  Provided further, 
That up to $1,000,000,000 of funds provided under this paragraph in this 
Act may be used to cover the cost of testing for the uninsured, using 
the definitions applicable to funds provided under this heading in 
Public Law 116-127: <<NOTE: Coordination. Reports.>>   Provided further, 
That not later than 21 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary, in coordination with other appropriate departments and 
agencies, shall issue a report on COVID-19 testing:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Data.>>  such report shall include data on demographic 
characteristics, including, in a de-identified and disaggregated manner, 
race, ethnicity, age, sex, geographic region and other relevant factors 
of individuals tested for or diagnosed with COVID-19, to the extent such 
information is available:  Provided further, That such <<NOTE: Data.>>  
report shall include information on the number and rates of cases, 
hospitalizations, and deaths as a result of COVID-19:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Updates. Time period.>>  such report shall be submitted to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate, and the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and 
updated and resubmitted to such Committees, as necessary, every 30 days 
until the end of the COVID-19 public health emergency first declared by 
the Secretary on January 31, 2020:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports. Data.>>  not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a report on the number 
of positive diagnoses, hospitalizations, and deaths as a result of 
COVID-19, disaggregated nationally by race, ethnicity, age, sex, 
geographic region, and other relevant factors:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Analysis.>>  such report shall include epidemiological 
analysis of such data:  Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Coordination. Reports. Testing plan.>>  not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
coordination with other departments and agencies, as appropriate,

[[Page 134 STAT. 627]]

shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate on a COVID-19 strategic testing plan:  Provided 
further, That such plan shall assist States, localities, territories, 
tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian health organizations, in 
understanding COVID-19 testing for both active infection and prior 
exposure, including hospital-based testing, high-complexity laboratory 
testing, point-of-care testing, mobile-testing units, testing for 
employers and other settings, and other tests as necessary:  Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Testing estimates and guidelines.>>  such plan 
shall include estimates of testing production that account for new and 
emerging technologies, as well as guidelines for testing:  Provided 
further, That such plan shall address how the Secretary will increase 
domestic testing capacity, including testing supplies; and address 
disparities in all communities:  Provided further, That such plan shall 
outline Federal resources that are available to support the testing 
plans of each State, locality, territory, tribe, tribal organization, 
and urban Indian health organization: <<NOTE: Updates. Time period.>>   
Provided further, That such plan shall be updated every 90 days until 
funds are expended:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  The <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  requirements, authorities, 
and conditions described in sections 18108, 18109, and 18112 of division 
B of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 
116-136) shall apply to funds appropriated in this Act to the Department 
of Health and Human Services.

    Sec. 102.  Funds <<NOTE: Consultation.>>  appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Department of Health and Human Services'', except 
for the amounts specified in the first paragraph and the first and 
second provisos in the second paragraph under the heading ``Public 
Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'', may be transferred to, and 
merged with, other appropriation accounts under the headings ``Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention'', ``Public Health and Social 
Services Emergency Fund'', ``Food and Drug Administration'', and 
``National Institutes of Health'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond 
to coronavirus following consultation with the Office of Management and 
Budget:  Provided, That <<NOTE: Notification. Time period.>>  the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate shall be notified 10 days in advance of any such 
transfer: <<NOTE: Determination.>>   Provided further, That, upon a 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an 
appropriation by this Act are not necessary, such amounts may be 
transferred back to that appropriation:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available by this Act may be transferred pursuant to the 
authority in section 205 of division A of Public Law 116-94 or section 
241(a) of the Public Health Service Act.

    Sec. 103.  Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'', up to $6,000,000 
shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds made

[[Page 134 STAT. 628]]

available under the heading ``Office of the Secretary, Office of 
Inspector General'', and shall remain available until expended, for 
oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated to the 
Department of Health and Human Services to prevent, prepare for, and 
respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally:  Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Consultation.>>  the Inspector General of the Department of 
Health and Human Services shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate prior to 
obligating such funds:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided by this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided by law.

                                TITLE II

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                      Small Business Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$2,100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, to 
prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or 
internationally:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                     disaster loans program account

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Loans Program Account'' for 
the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, $50,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or 
internationally:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                          emergency eidl grants

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency EIDL Grants'' for the cost 
of emergency EIDL grants authorized by section 1110 of division A of the 
CARES Act (Public Law 116-136), $10,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, 
domestically or internationally:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE III

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 301.  Each amount appropriated or made available by this Act is 
in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.

[[Page 134 STAT. 629]]

    Sec. 302.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 303.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the additional 
amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations accounts shall be 
available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such 
appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2020.
    Sec. 304.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act, or transferred pursuant to authorization granted 
in this Act, may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to 
coronavirus.
    Sec. 305.  In <<NOTE: Definition.>>  this Act, the term 
``coronavirus'' means SARS-CoV-2 or another coronavirus with pandemic 
potential.

    Sec. 306.  Each <<NOTE: President.>>  amount designated in this Act 
by the Congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or transferred, if 
applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.

    Sec. 307.  Any amount appropriated by this Act, designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and 
subsequently so designated by the President, and transferred pursuant to 
transfer authorities provided by this Act shall retain such designation.

                            budgetary effects

    Sec. 308. (a) Statutory PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of 
this division shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained 
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay As-You-Go Act of 2010.
    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this division 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(7) and (c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this 
division shall be estimated for purposes of section 251 of such Act.

[[Page 134 STAT. 630]]

    This division may be cited as the ``Additional Emergency 
Appropriations for Coronavirus Response''.

    Approved April 24, 2020.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 266:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 165 (2019):
                                    Jan. 11, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 166 (2020):
                                    Apr. 21, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    Apr. 23, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2020):
            Apr. 24, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>