[116th Congress Public Law 30]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 133 STAT. 1032]]

Public Law 116-30
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide a lactation room in public buildings. <<NOTE: July 25, 
                          2019 -  [H.R. 866]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Fairness For 
Breastfeeding Mothers Act of 2019. 40 USC 101 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fairness For Breastfeeding Mothers 
Act of 2019''.
SEC. 2. LACTATION ROOM IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

    (a) Lactation Room in Public Buildings.--Chapter 33 of title 40, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``Sec. 3318. <<NOTE: 40 USC 3318.>>  Lactation room in public 
                  buildings

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Appropriate authority.--The term `appropriate 
        authority' means the head of a Federal agency, the Architect of 
        the Capitol, or other official authority responsible for the 
        operation of a public building.
            ``(2) Covered public building.--The term `covered public 
        building' means a public building (as defined in section 3301) 
        that is open to the public and contains a public restroom, and 
        includes a building listed in section 6301 or 5101.
            ``(3) Lactation room.--The term `lactation room' means a 
        hygienic place, other than a bathroom, that--
                    ``(A) is shielded from view;
                    ``(B) is free from intrusion; and
                    ``(C) contains a chair, a working surface, and, if 
                the public building is otherwise supplied with 
                electricity, an electrical outlet.

    ``(b) Lactation Room Required.--Except as provided in subsection 
(c), the appropriate authority of a covered public building shall ensure 
that the building contains a lactation room that is made available for 
use by members of the public to express breast milk.
    ``(c) Exceptions.--A covered public building may be excluded from 
the requirement in subsection (b) at the discretion of the appropriate 
authority if--
            ``(1) the public building--
                    ``(A) does not contain a lactation room for 
                employees who work in the building; and
                    ``(B) does not have a room that could be repurposed 
                as a lactation room or a space that could be made 
                private using portable materials, at a reasonable cost; 
                or

[[Page 133 STAT. 1033]]

            ``(2) new construction would be required to create a 
        lactation room in the public building and the cost of such 
        construction is unfeasible.

    ``(d) No Unauthorized Entry.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to authorize an individual to enter a public building or 
portion thereof that the individual is not otherwise authorized to 
enter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, <<NOTE: 40 USC 3301 prec.>>  
is amended by inserting after the item related to section 3316 the 
following new item:

``3318. Lactation room in public buildings.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 40 USC 3318 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

    Approved July 25, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 866 (S. 528):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            Feb. 6, considered and passed House.
            June 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>