[116th Congress Public Law 37]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 133 STAT. 1049]]

Public Law 116-37
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, 
 to establish a congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to 
temporarily suspend the debt limit, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 
                        2, 2019 -  [H.R. 3877]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Bipartisan 
Budget Act of 2019. 2 USC 900 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019''.

                       TITLE I--BUDGET ENFORCEMENT

SEC. 101. AMENDMENTS TO THE BALANCED BUDGET AND EMERGENCY DEFICIT 
                        CONTROL ACT OF 1985.

    (a) Revised Discretionary Spending Limits.--Section 251(c) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901(c)) is amended by striking paragraphs (7) and (8) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(7) for fiscal year 2020--
                    ``(A) for the revised security category, 
                $666,500,000,000 in new budget authority; and
                    ``(B) for the revised nonsecurity category, 
                $621,500,000,000 in new budget authority; and
            ``(8) for fiscal year 2021--
                    ``(A) for the revised security category, 
                $671,500,000,000 in new budget authority; and
                    ``(B) for the revised nonsecurity category, 
                $626,500,000,000 in new budget authority;''.

    (b) Overseas Contingency Operations Amounts.--In fiscal years 2020 
and 2021, the adjustments under section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)) 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
appropriations will be as follows:
            (1) For the revised nonsecurity category--
                    (A) for fiscal year 2020, $8,000,000,000; and
                    (B) for fiscal year 2021, $8,000,000,000.
            (2) For the revised security category--
                    (A) for fiscal year 2020, $71,500,000,000; and
                    (B) for fiscal year 2021, $69,000,000,000.

This subsection shall not affect the applicability of section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985.
    (c) New Adjustment for the U.S. Census for 2020.--Section 251(b)(2) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control

[[Page 133 STAT. 1050]]

Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(G) The 2020 census.--If, for fiscal year 2020, 
                appropriations for the Periodic Censuses and Programs 
                account of the Bureau of the Census of the Department of 
                Commerce are enacted that the Congress designates in 
                statute as being for the 2020 Census, then the 
                adjustment for that fiscal year shall be the total of 
                such appropriations for that fiscal year designated as 
                being for the 2020 Census, but shall not exceed 
                $2,500,000,000.''.

    (d) Direct Spending Adjustments for Fiscal Years 2020 and 2021.--
Section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5)(B), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``and (12)'' and inserting ``(12), and (13)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(13) Implementing direct spending reductions for fiscal 
        years 2020 and 2021.--(A) OMB shall make the calculations 
        necessary to implement the direct spending reductions calculated 
        pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4) without regard to the 
        amendment made to section 251(c) revising the discretionary 
        spending limits for fiscal years 2020 and 2021 by the Bipartisan 
        Budget Act of 2019.
            ``(B) Paragraph (5)(B) shall not be implemented for fiscal 
        years 2020 and 2021.''.
SEC. 102. BALANCES ON THE PAYGO SCORECARDS.

    Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  on the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the balances on the PAYGO scorecards established pursuant to 
paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go 
Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)) shall be zero.

              TITLE II--ESTABLISHING A CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET

SEC. 201. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 BUDGET 
                        RESOLUTION IN THE HOUSE OF 
                        REPRESENTATIVES.

    Upon <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  the date of the enactment of this 
Act--
            (1) the Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
        Representatives may adjust the allocations, aggregates, and 
        other budgetary levels included in the statement referred to in 
        section 1(b) of House Resolution 293 (116th Congress) consistent 
        with this Act; and
            (2) subsections (e), (f), and (g) of section 1 of House 
        Resolution 293 (116th Congress) shall have no force or effect 
        through the remainder of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
SEC. 202. AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET RESOLUTION IN THE 
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2021 <<NOTE: Deadline. Applicability. Effective 
date.>> .--If a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 
has not been adopted by April 15, 2020, for the purpose of enforcing the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 for fiscal year 2021, the allocations, 
aggregates, and levels provided for in subsection (b) shall apply in the 
House of Representatives after April 15, 2020, in the same manner as for 
a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 with 
appropriate

[[Page 133 STAT. 1051]]

budgetary levels for fiscal year 2021 and for fiscal years 2022 through 
2030.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time periods. Congressional 
Record, publication. Deadline.>>  Committee Allocations, Aggregates, and 
Levels.--In the House of Representatives, the Chair of the Committee on 
the Budget shall submit a statement for publication in the Congressional 
Record after April 15, 2020, but not later than May 15, 2020, 
containing--
            (1) for the Committee on Appropriations, committee 
        allocations for fiscal year 2021 consistent with discretionary 
        spending limits set forth in section 251(c)(8) of the Balanced 
        Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended by 
        this Act, and the outlays flowing therefrom, and committee 
        allocations for fiscal year 2021 for current law mandatory 
        budget authority and outlays, for the purpose of enforcing 
        section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974;
            (2) for all committees of the House of Representatives other 
        than the Committee on Appropriations, committee allocations for 
        fiscal year 2021 and for the period of fiscal years 2021 through 
        2030 consistent with the most recent baseline of the 
        Congressional Budget Office, as adjusted, to the extent 
        practicable, for the budgetary effects of any provision of law 
        enacted during the period beginning on the date such baseline is 
        issued and ending on the date of submission of such statement, 
        for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974;
            (3) aggregate spending levels for fiscal year 2021 in 
        accordance with the allocations established under paragraphs (1) 
        and (2), for the purpose of enforcing section 311 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and
            (4) aggregate revenue levels for fiscal year 2021 and for 
        the period of fiscal years 2021 through 2030 consistent with the 
        most recent baseline of the Congressional Budget Office, as 
        adjusted, to the extent practicable, for the budgetary effects 
        of any provision of law enacted during the period beginning on 
        the date such baseline is issued and ending on the date of 
        submission of such statement, for the purpose of enforcing 
        section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

    (c) Additional Matter.--The statement referred to in subsection (b) 
may also include for fiscal year 2021 the matter contained in the 
provisions referred to in subsection (e).
    (d) Adjustments.--The Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the 
House of Representatives may adjust the allocations, aggregates, and 
other budgetary levels included in the statement referred to in 
subsection (b)--
            (1) to reflect changes resulting from the Congressional 
        Budget Office's updates to its baseline for fiscal years 2021 
        through 2030; or
            (2) for any bill, joint resolution, amendment, or conference 
        report by the amounts provided in such measure if such measure 
        would not increase the deficit for either of the following time 
        periods: fiscal year 2021 to fiscal year 2025 or fiscal year 
        2021 to fiscal year 2030.

    (e) Application.--
            (1) Upon submission of the statement referred to in 
        subsection (b), all references to allocations, aggregates, or 
        other appropriate levels in ``this concurrent resolution'' in 
        sections 5201, 5202, and 5203 of the House Concurrent Resolution 
        71

[[Page 133 STAT. 1052]]

        (115th Congress), specified in section 30104(f)(1) of the 
        Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, and continued in effect by 
        section 103(m) of House Resolution 6 (116th Congress) and 
        section 1(h)(1) of House Resolution 293 (116th Congress), shall 
        be treated for all purposes in the House of Representatives as 
        references to the allocations, aggregates, or other appropriate 
        levels contained in the statement referred to in subsection (b), 
        as adjusted in accordance with this or any other Act.
            (2) The provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 71 (115th 
        Congress), specified in section 30104(f)(1) of the Bipartisan 
        Budget Act of 2018, shall have no force or effect in the House 
        of Representatives except for the sections of such concurrent 
        resolution identified in paragraph (1).

    (f) Expiration.--Subsections (a) through (e) shall no longer apply 
if a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 is agreed 
to by the Senate and House of Representatives.
SEC. 203. LIMITATION ON ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS IN THE HOUSE OF 
                        REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) In General.--In the House of Representatives, except as provided 
in subsection (b), any general appropriation bill or bill or joint 
resolution continuing appropriations, or amendment thereto or conference 
report thereon, may not provide an advance appropriation.
    (b) Exceptions. <<NOTE: Lists. Congressional 
Record, publication.>> --An advance appropriation may be provided for 
programs, activities or accounts identified in lists submitted for 
printing in the Congressional Record by the Chair of the Committee on 
the Budget--
            (1) for fiscal year 2022, under the heading ``Accounts 
        Identified for Advance Appropriations'' in an aggregate amount 
        not to exceed $28,852,000,000 in new budget authority, and for 
        fiscal year 2023, accounts separately identified under the same 
        heading; and
            (2) for fiscal year 2022, under the heading ``Veterans 
        Accounts Identified for Advance Appropriations''.

    (c) Definition.--The term ``advance appropriation'' means any new 
discretionary budget authority provided in a general appropriation bill 
or bill or joint resolution continuing appropriations for fiscal year 
2021, or any amendment thereto or conference report thereon, that first 
becomes available following fiscal year 2021.
    (d) Expiration.--The preceding subsections of this section shall 
expire if a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 is 
agreed to by the Senate and the House of Representatives pursuant to 
section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
SEC. 204. AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 BUDGET RESOLUTION IN THE 
                        SENATE.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2020. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> --For the purpose of 
enforcing the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) 
and enforcing budgetary points of order in prior concurrent resolutions 
on the budget, the allocations, aggregates, and levels provided for in 
subsection (b) shall apply in the Senate in the same manner as for a 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2020 with 
appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal year 2020 and for fiscal years 
2021 through 2029.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time periods. Congressional Record, publication.>>  
Committee Allocations, Aggregates, and Levels.--The Chairman of the 
Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall submit a statement for 
publication in the Congressional Record

[[Page 133 STAT. 1053]]

as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act that 
includes--
            (1) for the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
        committee allocations for fiscal year 2020 consistent with the 
        discretionary spending limits set forth in section 251(c) of the 
        Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
        amended by this Act, for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of 
        the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
            (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
        Appropriations, committee allocations for fiscal years 2020, 
        2020 through 2024, and 2020 through 2029 consistent with the May 
        2019 baseline of the Congressional Budget Office, as adjusted 
        for the budgetary effects of any provision of law enacted during 
        the period beginning on the date such baseline was issued and 
        ending on the date of submission of such statement, for the 
        purpose of enforcing section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act 
        of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
            (3) aggregate spending levels for fiscal year 2020 in 
        accordance with the allocations established under paragraphs (1) 
        and (2), for the purpose of enforcing section 311 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 642);
            (4) aggregate revenue levels for fiscal years 2020, 2020 
        through 2024, and 2020 through 2029 consistent with the May 2019 
        baseline of the Congressional Budget Office, as adjusted for the 
        budgetary effects of any provision of law enacted during the 
        period beginning on the date such baseline was issued and ending 
        on the date of submission of such statement, for the purpose of 
        enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
        U.S.C. 642); and
            (5) levels of Social Security revenues and outlays for 
        fiscal years 2020, 2020 through 2024, and 2020 through 2029 
        consistent with the May 2019 baseline of the Congressional 
        Budget Office, as adjusted for the budgetary effects of any 
        provision of law enacted during the period beginning on the date 
        such baseline was issued and ending on the date of submission of 
        such statement, for the purpose of enforcing sections 302 and 
        311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633, 642).

    (c) Additional Matter.--The filing referred to in subsection (b) may 
also include for fiscal year 2020 the deficit-neutral reserve funds in 
title III of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 2018, updated by two fiscal years.
    (d) Expiration.--This section shall expire if a concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2020 is agreed to by the Senate 
and the House of Representatives pursuant to section 301 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632).
SEC. 205. AUTHORITY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021 BUDGET RESOLUTION IN THE 
                        SENATE.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2021.-- <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability.>> For 
the purpose of enforcing the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
621 et seq.), after April 15, 2020, and enforcing budgetary points of 
order in prior concurrent resolutions on the budget, the allocations, 
aggregates, and levels provided for in subsection (b) shall apply in the 
Senate in the same manner as for a concurrent resolution on the budget

[[Page 133 STAT. 1054]]

for fiscal year 2021 with appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal year 
2021 and for fiscal years 2022 through 2030.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time periods. Deadline.>>  Committee Allocations, 
Aggregates, and Levels.--After April 15, 2020, but not later than May 
15, 2020, the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
shall file--
            (1) for the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
        committee allocations for fiscal year 2021 consistent with the 
        discretionary spending limits set forth in section 251(c) of the 
        Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
        amended by this Act, for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of 
        the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633);
            (2) for all committees other than the Committee on 
        Appropriations, committee allocations for fiscal years 2021, 
        2021 through 2025, and 2021 through 2030 consistent with the 
        most recent baseline of the Congressional Budget Office, as 
        adjusted for the budgetary effects of any provision of law 
        enacted during the period beginning on the date such baseline is 
        issued and ending on the date of submission of such statement, 
        for the purpose of enforcing section 302 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 642);
            (3) aggregate spending levels for fiscal year 2021 in 
        accordance with the allocations established under paragraphs (1) 
        and (2), for the purpose of enforcing section 311 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 642);
            (4) aggregate revenue levels for fiscal years 2021, 2021 
        through 2025, and 2021 through 2030 consistent with the most 
        recent baseline of the Congressional Budget Office, as adjusted 
        for the budgetary effects of any provision of law enacted during 
        the period beginning on the date such baseline is issued and 
        ending on the date of submission of such statement, for the 
        purpose of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act 
        of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 642); and
            (5) levels of Social Security revenues and outlays for 
        fiscal years 2021, 2021 through 2025, and 2021 through 2030 
        consistent with the most recent baseline of the Congressional 
        Budget Office, as adjusted for the budgetary effects of any 
        provision of law enacted during the period beginning on the date 
        such baseline is issued and ending on the date of submission of 
        such statement, for the purpose of enforcing sections 302 and 
        311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633, 642).

    (c) Additional Matter.--The filing referred to in subsection (b) may 
also include for fiscal year 2021 the deficit-neutral reserve funds in 
title III of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 2018, updated by three fiscal years.
    (d) Expiration.--This section shall expire if a concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 is agreed to by the Senate 
and the House of Representatives pursuant to section 301 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632).
SEC. 206. LIMITATION ON ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS IN THE SENATE.

    (a) Point of Order Against Advance Appropriations in the Senate.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Point of order.--Except as provided in paragraph 
                (2), it shall not be in order in the Senate to consider

[[Page 133 STAT. 1055]]

                any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment 
                between the Houses, or conference report that would 
                provide an advance appropriation for a discretionary 
                account.
                    (B) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``advance appropriation'' means any new budget authority 
                provided in a bill or joint resolution making 
                appropriations for fiscal year 2020 that first becomes 
                available for any fiscal year after 2020 or any new 
                budget authority provided in a bill or joint resolution 
                making appropriations for fiscal year 2021 that first 
                becomes available for any fiscal year after 2021.
            (2) Exceptions.--Advance appropriations may be provided--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Congressional Record, publication.>>  
                for fiscal years 2021 and 2022 for programs, projects, 
                activities, or accounts identified in a statement 
                submitted to the Congressional Record by the Chairman of 
                the Committee on the Budget of the Senate under the 
                heading ``Accounts Identified for Advance 
                Appropriations'' in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
                $28,852,000,000 in new budget authority in each fiscal 
                year;
                    (B) for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting; and
                    (C) for the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
                Medical Services, Medical Support and Compliance, 
                Veterans Medical Community Care, and Medical Facilities 
                accounts of the Veterans Health Administration.
            (3) Supermajority waiver and appeal.--
                    (A) Waiver.--In the Senate, paragraph (1) may be 
                waived or suspended only by an affirmative vote of 
                three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn.
                    (B) Appeal.--An affirmative vote of three-fifths of 
                the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall 
                be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the 
                Chair on a point of order raised under paragraph (1).
            (4) Form of point of order.--A point of order under 
        paragraph (1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 
        313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
        644(e)).
            (5) Conference reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
        conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in 
        relation to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of order 
        being made by any Senator pursuant to this subsection, and such 
        point of order being sustained, such material contained in such 
        conference report or amendment between the Houses shall be 
        stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the question 
        of whether the Senate shall recede from its amendment and concur 
        with a further amendment, or concur in the House amendment with 
        a further amendment, as the case may be, which further amendment 
        shall consist of only that portion of the conference report or 
        House amendment, as the case may be, not so stricken. Any such 
        motion in the Senate shall be debatable. In any case in which 
        such point of order is sustained against a conference report (or 
        Senate amendment derived from such conference report by 
        operation of this paragraph), no further amendment shall be in 
        order.

    (b) Sunset.--Subsection (a) shall terminate on the date on which a 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2021 is agreed to by 
the Senate and House of Representatives pursuant

[[Page 133 STAT. 1056]]

to section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632).
SEC. 207. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST CERTAIN CHANGES IN MANDATORY 
                        PROGRAMS IN THE SENATE.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``CHIMP'' means a 
provision that--
            (1) would have been estimated as affecting direct spending 
        or receipts under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and 
        Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 902) (as in 
        effect prior to September 30, 2002) if the provision was 
        included in legislation other than appropriation Acts; and
            (2) results in a net decrease in budget authority in the 
        budget year, but does not result in a net decrease in outlays 
        over the period of the total of the current year, the budget 
        year, and all fiscal years covered under the most recently 
        adopted concurrent resolution on the budget.

    (b) Point of Order in the Senate.--
            (1) In general.--It shall not be in order in the Senate to 
        consider a bill or joint resolution making appropriations for a 
        full fiscal year, or an amendment thereto, amendment between the 
        Houses in relation thereto, conference report thereon, or motion 
        thereon, that includes a CHIMP that, if enacted, would cause the 
        absolute value of the total budget authority of all such CHIMPs 
        enacted in relation to a full fiscal year to be more than the 
        amount specified in paragraph (2).
            (2) Amount.--The amount specified in this paragraph is, for 
        fiscal year 2021, $15,000,000,000.

    (c) Determination. <<NOTE: Estimates.>> --For purposes of this 
section, budgetary levels shall be determined on the basis of estimates 
provided by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.

    (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal in the Senate.--In the Senate, 
subsection (b) may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative vote of 
three-fifths of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative vote 
of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, 
shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a 
point of order raised under subsection (b).
SEC. 208. POINT OF ORDER AGAINST DESIGNATION OF FUNDS FOR OVERSEAS 
                        CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS IN THE SENATE.

    (a) Point of Order.--When the Senate is considering a bill, joint 
resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the Houses, or 
conference report, if a point of order is made by a Senator against a 
provision that designates funds for fiscal years 2020 or 2021 for 
overseas contingency operations, in accordance with section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)), and the point of order is sustained by the Chair, 
that provision shall be stricken from the measure and may not be offered 
as an amendment from the floor.
    (b) Form of the Point of Order.--A point of order under subsection 
(a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 644(e)).
    (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a conference 
report on, or an amendment between the Houses in relation to, a bill or 
joint resolution, upon a point of order

[[Page 133 STAT. 1057]]

being made by any Senator pursuant to subsection (a), and such point of 
order being sustained, such material contained in such conference report 
or House amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to 
consider the question of whether the Senate shall recede from its 
amendment and concur with a further amendment, or concur in the House 
amendment with a further amendment, as the case may be, which further 
amendment shall consist of only that portion of the conference report or 
House amendment, as the case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in 
the Senate shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order 
is sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment derived 
from such conference report by operation of this subsection), no further 
amendment shall be in order.
    (d) Supermajority Waiver and Appeal.--In the Senate, this section 
may be waived or suspended only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths 
of the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative vote of three-
fifths of Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn shall be required 
to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
raised under this section.
    (e) Suspension of Point of Order.--This section shall not apply if a 
declaration of war by Congress is in effect.
SEC. 209. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS.

    The sections of this title are enacted by the Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, respectively, and as such they 
        shall be considered as part of the rules of each House, 
        respectively, or of that House to which they specifically apply, 
        and such rules shall supersede other rules only to the extent 
        that they are inconsistent therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change such rules (so far as relating to such 
        House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of such House.

           TITLE III--TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF PUBLIC DEBT LIMIT

SEC. 301. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3101 note.>>  TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF 
                        PUBLIC DEBT LIMIT.

    (a) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  In General.--Section 3101(b) of title 
31, United States Code, shall not apply for the period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act and ending on July 31, 2021.

    (b) Special Rule Relating to Obligations Issued During Extension 
Period.-- <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective on August 1, 2021, the 
limitation in effect under section 3101(b) of title 31, United States 
Code, shall be increased to the extent that--
            (1) the face amount of obligations issued under chapter 31 
        of such title and the face amount of obligations whose principal 
        and interest are guaranteed by the United States Government 
        (except guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury) outstanding on August 1, 2021, exceeds
            (2) the face amount of such obligations outstanding on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.

    (c) Extension Limited to Necessary Obligations.--An obligation shall 
not be taken into account under subsection (b)(1) unless the issuance of 
such obligation was necessary to fund a

[[Page 133 STAT. 1058]]

commitment incurred pursuant to law by the Federal Government that 
required payment before August 1, 2021.

                            TITLE IV--OFFSETS

SEC. 401. CUSTOMS USER FEES.

    (a) In General.--Section 13031(j)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(j)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``October 20, 2027'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2029''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ``September 30, 
        2027'' and inserting ``September 30, 2029''.

    (b) Rate for Merchandise Processing Fees.--Section 503 of the United 
States-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 112-41; 
19 U.S.C. 3805 note) is amended by striking ``May 26, 2027'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2029''.
SEC. 402. EXTENSION OF DIRECT SPENDING REDUCTIONS THROUGH FISCAL 
                        YEAR 2029.

    Section 251A(6) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a(6)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``fiscal years 2022 through 2027'' and inserting 
        ``fiscal years 2022 through 2029''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``fiscal year 2027'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
        2029''.

                       TITLE V--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 501. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) In General.--The budgetary effects of this Act shall not be 
entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)).

[[Page 133 STAT. 1059]]

    (b) Senate PAYGO Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of this Act 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress).

    Approved August 2, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3877:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 165 (2019):
            July 25, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 1, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>