[116th Congress Public Law 143]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 134 STAT. 644]]

Public Law 116-143
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To require the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to 
 provide information on suicide rates in law enforcement, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: June 16, 2020 -  [S. 2746]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Law Enforcement 
Suicide Data Collection Act.>> 
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 34 USC 10101 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Law Enforcement Suicide Data 
Collection Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 34 USC 50701.>>  INFORMATION ON SUICIDE IN LAW 
                    ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, acting through 
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall establish, 
for the purpose of preventing future law enforcement suicides and 
promoting understanding of suicide in law enforcement, the Law 
Enforcement Officers Suicide Data Collection Program, under which law 
enforcement agencies may submit to the Director information on suicides 
and attempted suicides within such law enforcement agencies, including 
information on--
            (1) the circumstances and events that occurred before each 
        suicide or attempted suicide;
            (2) the general location of each suicide or attempted 
        suicide;
            (3) the demographic information of each law enforcement 
        officer who commits or attempts suicide;
            (4) the occupational category, including criminal 
        investigator, corrections officer, line of duty officer, 911 
        dispatch operator, of each law enforcement officer who commits 
        or attempts suicide; and
            (5) the method used in each suicide or attempted suicide.

    (b) Policies.--The Federal Bureau of Investigation shall work with 
the Confidentiality and Data Access Committee of the Federal Committee 
on Statistical Methodology to develop publication policies to manage the 
risk of identity disclosure based upon the best practices identified by 
other Federal statistical programs.
    (c) <<NOTE: Web posting.>>  Report.--Not later than 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Attorney 
General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, shall submit to Congress and publish on the website of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation a report containing the information 
submitted to the Director pursuant to subsection (a).

    (d) Confidentiality.--The report described under subsection (c) may 
not include any personally identifiable information of a law enforcement 
officer who commits or attempts suicide.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section--

[[Page 134 STAT. 645]]

            (1) the term ``law enforcement agency'' means a Federal, 
        State, Tribal, or local agency engaged in the prevention, 
        detection, or investigation, prosecution, or adjudication of any 
        violation of the criminal laws of the United States, a State, 
        Tribal, or a political subdivision of a State;
            (2) the term ``law enforcement officer'' means any current 
        or former officer (including a correctional officer), agent, or 
        employee of the United States, a State, Indian Tribe, or a 
        political subdivision of a State authorized by law to engage in 
        or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or 
        prosecution of any violation of the criminal laws of the United 
        States, a State, Indian Tribe, or a political subdivision of a 
        State; and
            (3) the term ``State'' means each of the several States, the 
        District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or 
        possession of the United States.

    Approved June 16, 2020.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2746:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 166 (2020):
            May 14, considered and passed Senate.
            May 27, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>