[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4454 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.4454

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
ending Septem-


                  ber 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1995, and for other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                    Mileage and Expenses Allowances


                mileage of the vice president and senators

    For mileage of the Vice President and Senators of the United 
States, $60,000.

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and 
Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for 
each Chairman; in all, $56,000.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $71,338,000, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, 
as follows:


                       office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,513,000.


                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $457,000.


               offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,195,000.


                offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $656,000.


                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $996,000 for each such committee; in all, $1,992,000.


  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $384,000.


                          office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $192,000.


                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $12,961,000.


              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $32,739,000.


         offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,197,000.


                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $17,052,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,381,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$936,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate


                         senate policy committees

    For salaries and expenses of the Majority Policy Committee and the 
Minority Policy Committee, $1,287,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,574,000.


                       inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-
ninth Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $78,112,000.


   expenses of united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $348,000.


                         secretary of the senate

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,966,500 and, in addition, $7,000,000, to be derived by transfer from 
funds appropriated in fiscal year 1992 for ``Salaries, Officers and 
Employees'' and to remain available until September 30, 1998.


              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $74,894,000, of which $21,347,000 shall remain available 
until expended.


                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $7,429,000.


         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$206,542,000.

               Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Fair Employment 
Practices, $889,000.

                     Settlements and Awards Reserve

    For expenses for settlements and awards, $1,000,000.


                       stationery (revolving fund)

    For stationery for the President of the Senate, $4,500, for 
officers of the Senate and the Conference of the Majority and 
Conference of the Minority of the Senate, $8,500; in all, $13,000.


                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$11,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996.


                                rescission

    Of the funds previously appropriated under the heading ``SENATE'', 
$23,000,000 are rescinded.


                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 1. Effective on and after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Senate, subject to the approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the Senate, is authorized to transfer up to 
$300,000 from any Senate appropriations account with respect to which 
the Secretary has disbursing authority to the revolving fund 
established under section 2(c) under the subheading ``ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROVISIONS'' under the heading ``SENATE'' in Public Law 102-392 (2 
U.S.C. 121d(c)) to provide additional capitalization for such revolving 
fund. Any moneys so transferred shall be available for use in the same 
manner and to the same extent as the moneys otherwise in such revolving 
fund.
    Sec. 2. (a) Not later than September 30, 1995, the Secretary of the 
Senate shall submit to the Committee on Rules and Administration a 
report evaluating the quality and scope of the educational experience 
available to visitors to the Senate concerning the constitutional and 
historical role of the Senate in American Government and society.
    (b) The Secretary of the Senate shall include in the report a plan 
for the improvement of the educational experience available to Senate 
visitors. Senate officers and officials and legislative branch support 
agencies shall work with the Secretary of the Senate in the development 
of the plan. Appropriate executive branch agencies, such as the 
National Archives and Records Administration and the Smithsonian 
Institution, are encouraged to offer assistance to the Secretary of the 
Senate in developing the plan.
    (c) There are authorized to be paid out of the contingent fund of 
the Senate, upon vouchers approved by the Secretary of the Senate, such 
sums as are necessary to reimburse the routine expenses associated with 
developing the report required by this section.
    Sec. 3. (a) Section 105(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act 1965 (Public Law 88-454; 2 U.S.C. 104a) is amended by adding at the 
end thereof the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) Each report by the Secretary of the Senate required by 
paragraph (1) shall contain a separate summary of Senate accounts 
statement for each office of the Senate authorized to obligate 
appropriated funds, including each Senator's office, each officer of 
the Senate, and each committee of the Senate. The summary of Senate 
accounts statement shall include--
        ``(A) the total amount of appropriations made available or 
    allocated to the office;
        ``(B) any supplemental appropriation, transfer of funds, or 
    rescission and the effect of such action on the appropriation or 
    allocation to the office;
        ``(C) total expenses incurred for salary and office expenses; 
    and
        ``(D) the unexpended balance.''.
    (b) Section 318 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 
(Public Law 101-520; 2 U.S.C. 59f) is amended by striking the period at 
the end of the last sentence and inserting the following: ``, and in 
the case of each Senator, the allocation made to such Senator from the 
appropriation for official mail expenses.''.
    (c) The amendments made by this section shall be effective with 
respect to--
        (1) reports and statements covering periods beginning on and 
    after October 1, 1994; and
        (2) appropriations made and obligations incurred on and after 
    such date.
    Sec. 4. (a) There is established in the Treasury of the United 
States a revolving fund within the contingent fund of the Senate to be 
known as the Daniel Webster Senate Page Residence Revolving Fund 
(hereafter referred to in this section as the ``fund''). The fund shall 
consist of all rental payments and other moneys collected or received 
by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel Webster Senate Page 
Residence. All moneys in the fund shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation for disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate in 
connection with operation and maintenance of the Daniel Webster Senate 
Page Residence not normally performed by the Architect of the Capitol. 
In addition, such moneys may be used by the Sergeant at Arms to 
purchase food and food related items and fund activities for the pages.
    (b) All moneys received from rental payments and other moneys 
collected or received by the Sergeant at Arms with regard to the Daniel 
Webster Senate Page Residence shall be deposited in the fund and shall 
be available for purposes of this section.
    (c) Disbursements from the fund shall be made upon vouchers 
approved by the Sergeant at Arms, or the designee of the Sergeant at 
Arms.
    (d) The Sergeant at Arms is authorized to prescribe such 
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this 
section and to provide for the operations of the Daniel Webster Senate 
Page Residence.
    Sec. 5. Effective October 1, 1994, each of the figures contained in 
section 506(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1973 
(2 U.S.C. 58(b)(3)(A)(iii)) is increased by $50,000: Provided, That, in 
any fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1995, a Senator may use 
funds provided for official office expenses, but not to exceed $50,000, 
for mass mailing, as defined in section 6(b)(1) and all such mass 
mailings shall be under the frank.
    Sec. 6. (a) This section shall apply to mailings by Senators, made 
during fiscal year 1995 and each fiscal year thereafter in addition to 
any other law relating to the use of the franking privilege.
    (b) For the purposes of this paragraph--
        (1) the term ``mass mailing''--
            (A) means, with respect to a session of Congress, a mailing 
        of more than 500 newsletters or other pieces of mail with 
        substantially identical content (whether such mail is deposited 
        singly or in bulk, or at the same time or different times), but
            (B) does not include a mailing--
                (i) of matter in direct response to a communication 
            from a person to whom the matter is mailed;
                (ii) to other Members of Congress or to a Federal, 
            State, or local government official;
                (iii) of a news release to the communications media;
                (iv) of a town meeting notice, but no such mailing may 
            be made fewer than 60 days immediately before the date of 
            any primary election or general election (whether regular, 
            special, or runoff) for any Federal, State, or local office 
            in which a Member of the Senate is a candidate for 
            election; or
                (v) of a Federal publication or other item that is 
            provided by the Senate to all Senators or made available by 
            the Senate for purchase by all Senators from official funds 
            specifically for distribution.
    (c) Except as provided in section 5, a Senator may not mail a mass 
mailing under the frank.
    (d) The Senate Committee on Rules and Administration shall 
prescribe rules and regulations and take other action as the Committee 
considers necessary and proper for Senators to comply with this section 
and regulations.
    Sec. 7. Of the funds previously appropriated under the heading 
``SENATE'', $65,000,000 shall not remain available for obligation 
beyond the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8. None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``SENATE'' 
under the subheading ``official mail costs'' may be used in any fiscal 
year beginning on or after October 1, 1994, for mass mailings as 
defined in section 6(b)(1).

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

      Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For payment to the estate of William H. Natcher, late a 
Representative from the Commonwealth of Kentucky, $133,600.

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$728,468,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $6,096,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,444,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,042,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,429,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, $1,284,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of 
the Majority Whip and not to exceed $563,000 for the Chief Deputy 
Majority Whips; and Office of the Minority Whip, $897,000, including 
$5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip and not to exceed 
$104,000 for the Chief Deputy Minority Whip.


                           members' clerk hire

    For staff employed by each Member in the discharge of official and 
representative duties, $240,417,000.


                           committee employees

    For professional and clerical employees of standing committees, 
including the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on the 
Budget, $73,925,000.


                    committee on the budget (studies)

    For salaries, expenses, and studies by the Committee on the Budget, 
and temporary personal services for such committee to be expended in 
accordance with sections 101(c), 606, 703, and 901(e) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, and to be available for reimbursement 
to agencies for services performed, $401,000.


                 standing committees, special and select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by the House, $53,191,000.


                    committee on house administration

                       house information systems

    For salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of House 
Information Systems, under the direction of the Committee on House 
Administration, $22,437,000, of which $16,017,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That House Information Systems is authorized to receive 
reimbursement for services provided from Members of the House of 
Representatives and other Governmental entities and such reimbursement 
shall be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account: Provided 
further, That amounts so credited for fiscal year 1994 and not 
obligated shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 1995.

                        allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $244,572,000, including: Official Expenses of Members, 
$79,800,000; supplies, materials, administrative costs and Federal tort 
claims, $6,103,000; net expenses of purchase, lease and maintenance of 
office equipment, $11,779,000; net expenses for telecommunications, 
$10,872,000; furniture and furnishings, $2,012,000; stenographic 
reporting of committee hearings, $1,100,000; reemployed annuitants 
reimbursements, $1,279,000; Government contributions to employees' life 
insurance fund, retirement funds, Social Security fund, Medicare fund, 
health benefits fund, and worker's and unemployment compensation, 
$130,849,000; and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, 
maintenance, repair and operation of House motor vehicles, 
interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased 
employees of the House, $778,000.


                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child 
Care Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established 
by section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 
(40 U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of 
the Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives.


         committee on appropriations (studies and investigations)

    For salaries and expenses, studies and examinations of executive 
agencies, by the Committee on Appropriations, and temporary personal 
services for such committee, to be expended in accordance with section 
202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 and to be 
available for reimbursement to agencies for services performed, 
$6,495,000: Provided, That the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, may in any fiscal year pay 
all administrative uncontrollable overtime accrued by its employees 
while on detail to the Committee on Appropriations.


                           OFFICIAL MAIL COSTS

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the House of 
Representatives, as authorized by law, $31,000,000.


                     salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $56,354,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not to exceed $1,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $14,158,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including not to exceed 
$500 for official representation and reception expenses, $1,502,000; 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Doorkeeper, including 
overtime as authorized by law, $11,506,000; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services, 
$16,360,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General, $295,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of General 
Counsel, $762,000; Office of the Chaplain, $124,000; Office of the 
Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for preparing 
the Digest of Rules, $983,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Historian, $337,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $1,630,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the House, 
$4,400,000; six minority employees, $747,000; the House Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus, $1,523,000; 
the House Republican Conference, $1,523,000; and other authorized 
employees, $504,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 101. (a) Transfer of Majority and Minority Printers to 
Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services.--As soon as 
practicable, but not later than October 1, 1994, authority over the 
Majority and Minority Printers of the House of Representatives shall be 
transferred to the Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services 
of the House.
    (b) Fees for Offices and Utilities.--
        (1) In general.--Upon the transfer required by subsection (a), 
    the Director shall charge the Majority and Minority Printers a 
    reasonable monthly fee for the rental of offices and utilities.
        (2) Availability of receipts.--The amounts received under this 
    subsection shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States 
    for credit to the appropriation for ``Salaries and Expenses of the 
    House of Representatives'', and shall be available for expenditure 
    in any fiscal year to the extent provided in appropriations Acts.
    (c) Applicability.--This section shall take effect upon the date of 
the enactment of this Act and shall apply to any fiscal year.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        joint economic committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,090,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.


                       joint committee on printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$1,370,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.


                       joint committee on taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$6,019,000, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Attending Physician's office; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month each to two assistants and $400 per month 
each not to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided for 
such assistance; and (4) $918,000 for reimbursement to the Department 
of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and 
credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which 
such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,335,000, to be disbursed by 
the Clerk of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police


                                 salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay differential, clothing allowance of not more than 
$600 each for members required to wear civilian attire, and Government 
contributions to employees' benefits funds, as authorized by law, of 
officers, members, and employees of the Capitol Police, $69,382,000, of 
which $33,463,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
Representatives, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House, and 
$35,919,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That 
of the amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1995 for salaries, 
including overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, clothing allowance 
of not more than $600 each for members required to wear civilian 
attire, and Government contributions to employees' benefits funds under 
this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.


                             general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical services, the 
employee assistance program, not more than $2,000 for the awards 
program, postage, telephone service, travel advances, relocation of 
instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and $85 per month for extra services performed for the 
Capitol Police Board by an employee of the Sergeant at Arms of the 
Senate or the House of Representatives designated by the Chairman of 
the Board, $2,000,000, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the cost of basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal 
Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 1995 shall be paid by 
the Secretary of the Treasury from funds available to the Department of 
the Treasury.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 102. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1995 for the Capitol 
Police Board under the heading ``Capitol Police'' may be transferred 
between the headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'', upon 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives.

                         Capitol Guide Service

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service, $1,628,000, 
to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be used to employ more than thirty-three individuals: 
Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is authorized, during 
emergencies, to employ not more than two additional individuals for not 
more than one hundred twenty days each, and not more than ten 
additional individuals for not more than six months each, for the 
Capitol Guide Service.

                        Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Special Services Office, $363,000, 
to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                    OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-484), including 
official reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $5,500 
from the Trust Fund), and expenses incurred in administering an 
employee incentive awards program (not to exceed $2,500), and rental of 
space in the District of Columbia, $21,970,000: Provided, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for salaries or expenses of 
any employee of the Office of Technology Assessment in excess of 143 
staff employees: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be available for assessments or activities not initiated and 
approved in accordance with section 3(d) of Public Law 92-484: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries or expenses of employees of the Office of Technology 
Assessment in connection with any reimbursable study for which funds 
are provided from sources other than appropriations made under this 
Act, or shall be available for any other administrative expenses 
incurred by the Office of Technology Assessment in carrying out such a 
study.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
to exceed $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $23,188,000: Provided, That none 
of these funds shall be available for the purchase or hire of a 
passenger motor vehicle: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for salaries or expenses of any employee of 
the Congressional Budget Office in excess of 221 fulltime equivalent 
positions: Provided further, That any sale or lease of property, 
supplies, or services to the Congressional Budget Office shall be 
deemed to be a sale or lease of such property, supplies, or services to 
the Congress subject to section 903 of Public Law 98-63: Provided 
further, That the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall 
have the authority, within the limits of available appropriations, to 
dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by inter-agency 
transfer, donation, or discarding.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                 Office of the Architect of the Capitol

                                salaries

    For the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant Architect of the 
Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay provided by law, 
$9,103,000.

                                 travel

    Appropriations under the control of the Architect of the Capitol 
shall be available for expenses of travel on official business not to 
exceed in the aggregate under all funds the sum of $20,000.

                          Contingent Expenses

    To enable the Architect of the Capitol to make surveys and studies, 
and to meet unforeseen expenses in connection with activities under his 
care, $100,000.

                     Capitol Buildings and Grounds


                            capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol and electrical substations of the Senate and House 
office buildings, under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the 
Capitol, including furnishings and office equipment; including not to 
exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses, to be 
expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; purchase or 
exchange, maintenance and operation of a passenger motor vehicle; 
security installations which are approved by the Capitol Police Board, 
authorized by House Concurrent Resolution 550, Ninety-second Congress, 
agreed to September 19, 1972, the cost limitation of which is hereby 
further increased by $200,000; and attendance, when specifically 
authorized by the Architect of the Capitol, at meetings or conventions 
in connection with subjects related to work under the Architect of the 
Capitol, $22,797,000, of which $2,763,000 shall remain available until 
expended.


                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,270,000, of which $25,000 shall remain 
available until expended.


                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate Office Buildings; and furniture and furnishings, to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$47,619,000, of which $7,709,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this heading such sums 
as are necessary shall be used, at the direction of the Sergeant at 
Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to complete improvements to the 
property acquired pursuant to section 1202 of Public Law 103-50.


                          house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, including the position of Superintendent 
of Garages as authorized by law, $41,364,000, of which $10,260,000 
shall remain available until expended.

                          capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, Union Station complex, 
Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare 
Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon 
request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received shall 
be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this appropriation, 
$33,437,000, of which $865,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $3,200,000 of the funds credited or to be 
reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided shall be available 
for obligation during fiscal year 1995.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 103. The matter in chapter III of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1975 under ``Capitol Buildings and Grounds'' under 
the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' (40 U.S.C. 166b-2) is amended 
by striking ``to grade 11'' and inserting ``at not to exceed grade 
12''.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $60,084,000: Provided, That no part of this appropriation may 
be used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any 
publication, or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of 
Public General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless 
such publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the compensation of the 
Director of the Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, 
shall be at an annual rate which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
pay for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of title 5, United States Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of 
Government publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members 
of Congress; and printing, binding, and distribution of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the 
recipient, $89,724,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for printing and binding part 2 of the annual report of the 
Secretary of Agriculture (known as the Yearbook of Agriculture) nor for 
copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record for 
individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1995''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                         Salaries and Expenses


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,230,000, and, in addition, 
$7,000,000 to remain available until expended to be derived by transfer 
from funds previously made available without fiscal year limitation 
under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL''.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress, not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog cards and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $210,164,000, of which 
not more than $7,869,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 1995 under the Act of June 28, 
1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150): Provided, That the 
total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by 
which collections are less than the $7,869,000: Provided further, That 
of the total amount appropriated, $8,458,000 is to remain available 
until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, and newspapers, 
and all other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic 
services for the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for 
the purchase, when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special 
and unique materials for additions to the collections.

                            Copyright Office


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $27,456,000, of which not more than $14,500,000 shall be 
derived from collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal 
year 1995 under 17 U.S.C. 708(c), and not more than $2,911,000 shall be 
derived from collections during fiscal year 1995 under 17 U.S.C. 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: Provided, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $17,411,000: Provided further, That up to 
$100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of 
an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $2,250 may be expended on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress or his designee, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the provisions of the Act of 
March 3, 1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $44,951,000, 
of which $11,694,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase and repair of furniture, 
furnishings, office and library equipment, $5,825,000, of which 
$1,886,000 shall be available until expended only for the purchase and 
supply of furniture, shelving, furnishings, and related costs necessary 
for the renovation and restoration of the Thomas Jefferson and John 
Adams Library buildings.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount not to exceed $194,290, of 
which $58,100 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
be used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or 
compressed work schedule which--
        (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
    grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
        (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
    work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
    the manager or supervisor on another workday.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or 
supervisor'' means any management official or supervisor, as such terms 
are defined in section 7103(a) (10) and (11) of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative 
overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other 
agencies under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be 
used to employ more than 65 employees and may be expended or 
obligated--
        (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or in 
    such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
        (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
            (A) to pay for such general or administrative overhead 
        costs as are attributable to the work performed for such 
        agency; or
            (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in 
        appropriations Acts, with respect to any purpose not allowable 
        under subparagraph (A).
    Sec. 204. Not to exceed $5,000 of any funds appropriated to the 
Library of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for the Library of Congress incentive awards 
program.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed $12,000 of funds appropriated to the 
Library of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress or his designee, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. Under the heading ``Library of Congress'' obligational 
authority shall be available, in an amount not to exceed $75,236,000 
for reimbursable activities, $8,706,000 for revolving fund activities, 
and $6,150,000 for non-expenditure transfer activities in support of 
parliamentary development during the current fiscal year.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Library Buildings and Grounds


                      structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$12,483,000, of which $3,441,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $32,207,000: Provided, That 
the objectives of chapter 41 of title 44, United States Code, as 
enacted by the Government Printing Office Electronic Information Access 
Enhancement Act of 1993, shall be carried out through cost savings: 
Provided further, That travel expenses, including travel expenses of 
the Depository Library Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed 
$130,000: Provided further, That funds, not to exceed $2,000,000, from 
current year appropriations are authorized for producing and 
disseminating Congressional Serial Sets and other related 
Congressional/non-Congressional publications for 1993 and 1994 to 
depository and other designated libraries.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal 
year for the ``Government Printing Office revolving fund'': Provided, 
That not to exceed $2,500 may be expended on the certification of the 
Public Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of passenger motor vehicles, not to exceed a 
fleet of twelve: Provided further, That expenditures in connection with 
travel expenses of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be 
deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States 
Code: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for level V of 
the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5316): Provided further, That the 
revolving fund and the funds provided under the paragraph entitled 
``office of superintendent of documents, salaries and expenses'' 
together may not be available for the full-time equivalent employment 
of more than 4,293 workyears: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
shall be available for expenses not to exceed $500,000 for the 
development of plans and design of a multi-purpose facility: Provided 
further, That activities financed through the revolving fund may 
provide information in any format: Provided further, That the revolving 
fund shall not be used to administer any flexible or compressed work 
schedule which applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided 
further, That expenses for attendance at meetings shall not exceed 
$75,000.
    Sec. 207. Section 207(a) of the Legislative Appropriations Act, 
1993 (Public Law 102-392) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(A) by inserting after ``as certified by 
    the Public Printer,'' the following: ``if the work is included in a 
    class of work which''; and
        (2) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) As used in this section, the term `printing' includes the 
    processes of composition, platemaking, presswork, duplicating, silk 
    screen processes, binding, microform, and the end items of such 
    processes.''.

                       GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not to exceed $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule (5 
U.S.C. 5315); hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in 
foreign countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; benefits 
comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6) and 901(8) of 
the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6) and 
4081(8)); and under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General 
of the United States, rental of living quarters in foreign countries 
and travel benefits comparable with those which are now or hereafter 
may be granted single employees of the Agency for International 
Development, including single Foreign Service personnel assigned to AID 
projects, by the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development--or his designee--under the authority of section 636(b) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2396(b)); $443,360,000: 
Provided, That not more than $1,000,000 of reimbursements received 
incident to the operation of the General Accounting Office Building 
shall be available for use in fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to the 
Comptroller General pursuant to that section shall be deposited to the 
appropriation of the General Accounting Office then available and 
remain available until expended, and not more than $6,000,000 of such 
funds shall be available for use in fiscal year 1995: Provided further, 
That this appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses 
of any other department or agency which is a member of the Joint 
Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of JFMIP costs as determined by the JFMIP, 
including the salary of the Executive Director and secretarial support: 
Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of Forum costs as determined by the Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants. Payments 
hereunder to either the Forum or the JFMIP may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed: Provided further, That to the extent that funds are 
otherwise available for obligation, agreements or contracts for the 
removal of asbestos, and renovation of the building and building 
systems (including the heating, ventilation and air conditioning 
system, electrical system and other major building systems) of the 
General Accounting Office Building may be made for periods not 
exceeding five years: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the American Consortium on International 
Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including 
any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International 
Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 303. Whenever any office or position not specifically 
established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is appropriated for 
herein or whenever the rate of compensation or designation of any 
position appropriated for herein is different from that specifically 
established for such position by such Act, the rate of compensation and 
the designation of the position, or either, appropriated for or 
provided herein, shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: 
Provided, That the provisions herein for the various items of official 
expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House 
of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.
    Sec. 304. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 305. The last sentence of section 307(a) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1994 (2 U.S.C. 60-1 note) is repealed.
    Sec. 306. Annual and sick leave balances of employees transferred 
from the Office of the Director of Non-legislative and Financial 
Services, House Postal Operations, to the Architect of the Capitol, as 
of October 31, 1993, shall be credited to the leave accounts of such 
personnel, subject to the provisions of section 6304 of title 5, United 
States Code, upon their transfer to the appropriation for House office 
buildings.
    Sec. 307. (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--The first sentence 
of section 8335(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``55'' and inserting ``57''.
    (b) Federal Employees' Retirement System.--(1) Section 8425 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (A) in the first sentence of subsection (b) by striking 
    ``member of the Capitol Police or'' and ``member or'';
        (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (C) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) A member of the Capitol Police who is otherwise eligible for 
immediate retirement under section 8412(d) shall be separated from the 
service on the last day of the month in which such member becomes 57 
years of age or completes 20 years of service if then over that age. 
The Capitol Police Board, when in its judgment the public interest so 
requires, may exempt such a member from automatic separation under this 
subsection until that member becomes 60 years of age. The Board shall 
notify the member in writing of the date of separation at least 60 days 
before that date. Action to separate the member is not effective, 
without the consent of the member, until the last day of the month in 
which the 60-day notice expires.''.
    (2) Section 8415(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``(a) or (b)'' and inserting ``(a), (b), or (c)''.
    Sec. 308. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice to Grantees and Contractors.--In providing financial 
assistance to, or entering into any contract with, any entity using 
funds made available in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to 
the greatest extent practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice 
describing the statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 309. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 is amended in the first 
sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``1994'' and inserting ``1995''.
    Sec. 310. Upon enactment of this Act, $2,015,000 is made available 
under the headings ``Architect of the Capitol, Capitol Buildings and 
Grounds, Capitol Buildings'' to remain available until expended for all 
necessary expenses relating to the purchase and installation of x-ray 
machines and magnetometers: Provided, That the cost limitation for 
security installations, which are approved by the Capitol Police Board, 
authorized by House Concurrent Resolution 550, Ninety-second Congress, 
agreed to September 19, 1972, is hereby further increased by 
$2,015,000: Provided further, That the amount made available shall be 
derived by transfer from the funds appropriated to the Clerk of the 
House in the Fiscal Year 1986 Urgent Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
Public Law 99-349, and subsequently transferred to the Architect of the 
Capitol pursuant to the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989, 
Public Law 100-458, for Capitol Complex Security Enhancement.
    Sec. 311. The following amounts appropriated under the following 
headings shall be withheld from obligation and shall only become 
available to the extent necessary to cover the costs of increases in 
pay and allowances authorized pursuant to the enactment of H.R. 4539, 
of the 103d Congress, or pursuant to the pay order of the President or 
other administrative action pursuant to law:
Capitol Police Board
    Capitol Police
        salaries..............................................
                                                                $167,000

OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT
    Salaries and Expenses.....................................
                                                                  39,000

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
    Salaries and Expenses.....................................
                                                                  55,000

ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL
    Office of the Architect of the Capitol
        salaries..............................................
                                                                 176,000
    Capitol Buildings and Grounds
        capitol buildings.....................................
                                                                 161,000
        capitol grounds.......................................
                                                                  69,000
        senate office buildings...............................
                                                                 280,000
        capitol power plant...................................
                                                                  95,000

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
    Congressional Research Service
        salaries and expenses.................................
                                                                 671,000

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
    Congressional Printing and Binding........................
                                                               2,007,000
    Office of Superintendent of Documents
        salaries and expenses.................................
                                                                 107,000

BOTANIC GARDEN
    Salaries and Expenses.....................................
                                                                  48,000

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
    Salaries and Expenses.....................................
                                                               2,307,000
    Copyright Office
        salaries and expenses.................................
                                                                 270,000
    Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
        salaries and expenses.................................
                                                                  79,000

ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL
    Library Building and Grounds
        structural and mechanical care........................
                                                                 123,000

GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE
    Salaries and Expenses.....................................
                                                               3,835,000

    Sec. 312. Architect of the Capitol Human Resources Program.--(a) 
Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Architect of the 
Capitol Human Resources Act''.
    (b) Finding and Purpose.--
        (1) Finding.--The Congress finds that the Office of the 
    Architect of the Capitol should develop human resources management 
    programs that are consistent with the practices common among other 
    Federal and private sector organizations.
        (2) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to require the 
    Architect of the Capitol to establish and maintain a personnel 
    management system that incorporates fundamental principles that 
    exist in other modern personnel systems.
    (c) Personnel Management System.--
        (1) Establishment.--The Architect of the Capitol shall 
    establish and maintain a personnel management system.
        (2) Requirements.--The personnel management system shall at a 
    minimum include the following:
            (A) A system which ensures that applicants for employment 
        and employees of the Architect of the Capitol are appointed, 
        promoted, and assigned on the basis of merit and fitness after 
        fair and equitable consideration of all applicants and 
        employees through open competition.
            (B) An equal employment opportunity program which includes 
        an affirmative employment program for employees and applicants 
        for employment, and procedures for monitoring progress by the 
        Architect of the Capitol in ensuring a workforce reflective of 
        the diverse labor force.
            (C) A system for the classification of positions which 
        takes into account the difficulty, responsibility, and 
        qualification requirements of the work performed, and which 
        conforms to the principle of equal pay for substantially equal 
        work.
            (D) A program for the training of Architect of the Capitol 
        employees which has among its goals improved employee 
        performance and opportunities for employee advancement.
            (E) A formal performance appraisal system which will permit 
        the accurate evaluation of job performance on the basis of 
        objective criteria for all Architect of the Capitol employees.
            (F) A fair and equitable system to address unacceptable 
        conduct and performance by Architect of the Capitol employees, 
        including a general statement of violations, sanctions, and 
        procedures which shall be made known to all employees, and a 
        formal grievance procedure.
            (G) A program to provide services to deal with mental 
        health, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, and other employee problems, 
        and which ensures employee confidentiality.
            (H) A formal policy statement regarding the use and accrual 
        of sick and annual leave which shall be made known to all 
        employees, and which is consistent with the other requirements 
        of this section.
    (d) Implementation of Personnel Management System.--
        (1) Development of plan.--The Architect of the Capitol shall--
            (A) develop a plan for the establishment and maintenance of 
        a personnel management system designed to achieve the 
        requirements of subsection (c);
            (B) submit the plan to the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, the House Office Building Commission, the 
        Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Joint 
        Committee on the Library, and the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 
        12 months after the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (C) implement the plan not later than 90 days after the 
        plan is submitted to the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, the House Office Building Commission, the 
        Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Joint 
        Committee on the Library, and the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives, as specified in 
        subparagraph (B).
        (2) Evaluation and reporting.--The Architect of the Capitol 
    shall develop a system of oversight and evaluation to ensure that 
    the personnel management system of the Architect of the Capitol 
    achieves the requirements of subsection (c) and complies with all 
    other relevant laws, rules and regulations. The Architect of the 
    Capitol shall report to the Speaker of the House of 
    Representatives, the House Office Building Commission, the 
    Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and the Joint 
    Committee on the Library on an annual basis the results of its 
    evaluation under this subsection.
        (3) Application of laws.--Nothing in this section shall be 
    construed to alter or supersede any other provision of law 
    otherwise applicable to the Architect of the Capitol or its 
    employees, unless expressly provided in this section.
    (e) Discrimination Complaint Processing.--
        (1) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
            (A) The term ``employee of the Architect of the Capitol'' 
        or ``employee'' means--
                (i) any employee of the Architect of the Capitol, the 
            Botanic Garden, or the Senate Restaurants;
                (ii) any applicant for a position that is to be 
            occupied by an individual described in clause (i); or
                (iii) within 180 days after the termination of 
            employment with the Architect of the Capitol, any 
            individual who was formerly an employee described in clause 
            (i) and whose claim of a violation arises out of the 
            individual's employment with the Architect of the Capitol.
            (B) The term ``violation'' means a practice that violates 
        paragraph (2) of this subsection.
            (C) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the terms ``employee 
        of the Architect of the Capitol'' and ``employee'' do not 
        include any individual referred to in clause (i), (ii), or 
        (iii) of such subparagraph who is a House of Representatives 
        garage or parking lot attendant (including the Superintendent), 
        with respect to whom supervision and all other employee-related 
        matters are transferred to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives pursuant to direction of the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives in House Report 
        103-517 of the One Hundred Third Congress.
        (2) Discriminatory practices prohibited.--
            (A) In general.--All personnel actions affecting employees 
        of the Architect of the Capitol shall be made free from any 
        discrimination based on--
                (i) race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, 
            within the meaning of section 717 of the Civil Rights Act 
            of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-16);
                (ii) age, within the meaning of section 15 of the Age 
            Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. 633a); 
            or
                (iii) handicap or disability, within the meaning of 
            section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 
            791) and sections 102 through 104 of the Americans with 
            Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12112-14).
            (B) Intimidation prohibited.--Any intimidation of, or 
        reprisal against, any employee by the Architect of the Capitol, 
        or by any employee of the Architect of the Capitol, because of 
        the exercise of a right under this section constitutes an 
        unlawful employment practice, which may be remedied in the same 
        manner as are other violations described in subparagraph (A).
        (3) Procedure for consideration of alleged violations.--
            (A) Any employee of the Architect of the Capitol alleging a 
        violation of paragraph (2) may file a charge with the General 
        Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board in accordance with 
        the General Accounting Office Personnel Act of 1980 (31 U.S.C. 
        751-55). Such a charge may be filed only after the employee has 
        filed a complaint with the Architect of the Capitol in 
        accordance with requirements prescribed by the Architect of the 
        Capitol and has exhausted all remedies pursuant to such 
        requirements.
            (B) The Architect of the Capitol shall carry out any action 
        within its authority that the Board orders under section 4 of 
        the General Accounting Office Personnel Act of 1980 (31 U.S.C. 
        753).
            (C) The Architect of the Capitol shall reimburse the 
        General Accounting Office for costs incurred by the Board in 
        considering charges filed under this subsection.
        (4) Amendments to the general accounting office personnel act 
    of 1980.--
            (A) Section 751(a)(1) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting ``or of the Architect of the Capitol, the 
        Botanic Garden, or the Senate Restaurants,'' after ``Office''.
            (B) Section 753(a) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                (i) in paragraph (7) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
            the paragraph;
                (ii) in paragraph (8) by striking the period and 
            inserting ``; and''; and
                (iii) by inserting at the end thereof the following:
        ``(9) an action involving discrimination prohibited under 
    section 312(e)(2) of the Architect of the Capitol Human Resources 
    Act.''.
            (C) Section 755 of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``or (7)'' and 
            inserting ``, (7) or (9)''; and
                (ii) in subsection (b)--

                    (I) by striking ``or applicant for employment'' and 
                inserting ``applicant for employment, or employee of 
                the Architect of the Capitol, the Botanic Garden, or 
                the Senate Restaurants''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``or under section 312(e)(2) of 
                the Architect of the Capitol Human Resources Act'' 
                after ``of this title''.

    (f) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 301(c) of Public Law 102-166 is amended--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (B) by striking ``or (B)'' in subparagraphs (C) and (D); 
        and
            (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively.
        (2) Section 305(c) of Public Law 102-166 is amended to read as 
    follows:
    ``(c) Employees of the Capitol Police.--In the case of an employee 
who is a member of the Capitol Police, the Director may refer the 
employee to the Capitol Police Board for resolution of the employee's 
complaint through the internal grievance procedures of the Capitol 
Police Board for a specific period of time, which shall not count 
against the time available for counseling or mediation under this 
title.''.
        (3) Section 312 of Public Law 102-166 is amended by striking 
    ``or by the Architect of the Capitol, or anyone employed by the 
    Architect of the Capitol,''.
        (4) Section 501(h)(2) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 
    1993 is amended by striking ``or (B)''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.