[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2445 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2445
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal 
year ending

               September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, for energy 
and water development, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and 
related purposes.

                         General Investigations

    For expenses necessary for the collection and study of basic 
information pertaining to river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects, restudy of authorized projects, 
miscellaneous investigations, and when authorized by laws, surveys and 
detailed studies and plans and specifications of projects prior to 
construction, $207,540,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
funds are provided for the following projects in the amounts specified:
        Central Basin Groundwater Project, California, $750,000;
        Los Angeles County Water Conservation, California, $100,000;
        Los Angeles River Watercourse Improvement, California, $300,000;
        Norco Bluffs, California, $150,000;
        Rancho Palos Verdes, California, $80,000;
        Biscayne Bay, Florida, $700,000;
        Lake George, Hobart, Indiana, $200,000;
        Little Calumet River Basin (Cady Marsh Ditch), Indiana, 
    $310,000;
        Ohio River Shoreline Flood Protection, Indiana, $400,000;
        Hazard, Kentucky, $250,000;
        Brockton, Massachusetts, $350,000;
        Passaic River Mainstem, New Jersey, $17,000,000;
        Broad Top Region, Pennsylvania, $400,000;
        Juniata River Basin, Pennsylvania, $450,000;
        Lackawanna River Basin Greenway Corridor, Pennsylvania, 
    $300,000;
        Jennings Randolph Lake, West Virginia, $400,000;
        Monongahela River Comprehensive, West Virginia, $600,000; and
        West Virginia Comprehensive, West Virginia, $500,000:
Provided, That notwithstanding ongoing studies using previously 
appropriated funds, and using $2,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to conduct hydraulic modeling, foundations 
analysis and related design, and mapping efforts in continuing 
preconstruction engineering and design for the additional lock at the 
Kentucky Dam, Kentucky, project, in accordance with the Kentucky Lock 
Addition Feasibility Report approved by Report of the Chief of Engineers 
dated June 1, 1992: Provided further, That using $250,000 of the funds 
appropriated herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief 
of Engineers, is directed to include the study of the Alafia River as 
part of the Tampa Harbor, Alafia River and Big Bend, Florida, 
feasibility study: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use $250,000 of 
available funds to complete a detailed project report, and plans and 
specifications for a permanent shore erosion protection project at 
Geneva State Park, Ashtabula County, Ohio: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to use $400,000 of the funds appropriated herein to continue 
preconstruction engineering and design, including preparation of the 
special design report, initiation of National Environmental Policy Act 
document preparation, and initiation of hydraulic model studies for the 
Kaumalapau Harbor navigation study, Lanai, Hawaii: Provided further, 
That using $4,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to proceed 
with detailed designs and plans and specifications, including detailed 
cost estimates, for the master plan of the Indianapolis, White River, 
Central Waterfront, Indiana, project: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Army is directed to limit the Columbia River Navigation 
Channel, Oregon and Washington, feasibility study to the investigation 
of the feasibility of constructing a navigation channel not to exceed 43 
feet in depth from the Columbia River entrance to the Port of Portland/
Port of Vancouver and to modify the Initial Project Management Plan 
accordingly: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use $400,000 of the funds 
appropriated herein to initiate a reconnaissance study, including 
economic and environmental studies, for the Pocataligo River and Swamp, 
South Carolina, project: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use $90,000 
of the funds appropriated herein to complete the reconnaissance study of 
the Black Fox and Oakland Spring wetland area in Murfreesboro, 
Tennessee: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to utilize $200,000 of 
available funds to initiate the planning and design of remedial measures 
to restore the environmental integrity and recreational boating 
facilities at Old Hickory Lake, Tennessee, in the vicinity of Drakes 
Creek Park, in accordance with the reconnaissance study findings dated 
September 1993: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to utilize $4,460,000 of 
available funds to complete preconstruction engineering and design for 
the Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, flood control project authorized by 
section 401(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 
4118) so that the project will be ready for construction by October 1, 
1994: Provided further, That all plans, specifications and design 
documents shall be concurrently reviewed in order to expedite the 
project: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to utilize $2,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated herein to undertake preconstruction engineering and 
design of the Virginia Beach Erosion Control and Hurricane Protection, 
Virginia, project, including storm water collection and discharge, as 
authorized by section 102(cc) of Public Law 102-580.

                          Construction, General

    For the prosecution of river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects authorized by laws; and detailed 
studies, and plans and specifications, of projects (including those for 
development with participation or under consideration for participation 
by States, local governments, or private groups) authorized or made 
eligible for selection by law (but such studies shall not constitute a 
commitment of the Government to construction), $1,255,875,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary pursuant 
to Public Law 99-662 shall be derived from the Inland Waterways Trust 
Fund, for one-half of the costs of construction and rehabilitation of 
inland waterways projects, including rehabilitation costs for the Lock 
and Dam 25, Mississippi River, Illinois and Missouri, and GIWW-Brazos 
River Floodgates, Texas, projects, and of which funds are provided for 
the following projects in the amounts specified:
        Rillito River, Arizona, $4,200,000;
        Coyote and Berryessa Creeks, California, $4,000,000;
        Sacramento River Flood Control Project (Glenn-Colusa Irrigation 
    District), California, $400,000;
        San Timoteo Creek (Santa Ana River Mainstem), California, 
    $12,000,000;
        Sonoma Baylands Wetland Demonstration Project, California, 
    $4,000,000;
        Central and Southern Florida, Florida, $17,850,000;
        Kissimmee River, Florida, $5,000,000;
        Melaleuca Quarantine Facility, Florida, $1,000,000;
        Casino Beach, Illinois, $820,000;
        McCook and Thornton Reservoirs, Illinois, $13,000,000;
        O'Hare Reservoir, Illinois, $5,000,000;
        Des Moines Recreational River and Greenbelt, Iowa, $2,700,000;
        Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity (Jefferson Parish), Louisiana, 
    $200,000;
        Anacostia River, Maryland and District of Columbia, $700,000;
        Clinton River Spillway, Michigan, $2,000,000;
        Silver Bay Harbor, Minnesota, $2,600,000;
        Stillwater, Minnesota, $2,400,000;
        Sowashee Creek, Mississippi, $3,240,000;
        Molly Ann's Brook, New Jersey, $1,000,000;
        New York Harbor Collection and Removal of Drift, New York and 
    New Jersey, $3,900,000;
        Rochester Harbor, New York, $4,000,000;
        Wilmington Harbor Ocean Bar, North Carolina, $5,266,000;
        West Columbus, Ohio, $9,000,000;
        Lackawanna River Greenway Corridor, Pennsylvania, $2,000,000;
        South Central Pennsylvania Environmental Restoration 
    Infrastructure and Resource Protection Development Pilot Program, 
    Pennsylvania, $10,000,000;
        Quonset Point-Davisville, Rhode Island (for 2 elevated water 
    storage towers and the relocation of sewer lines), $1,875,000;
        Lake O' The Pines-Big Cypress Bayou, Texas, $300,000;
        Red River Basin Chloride Control, Texas and Oklahoma, 
    $4,000,000;
        Wallisville Lake, Texas, $1,000,000;
        Richmond Filtration Plant, Virginia, $1,000,000;
        Southern West Virginia Environmental Restoration Infrastructure 
    and Resource Protection Development Pilot Program, West Virginia, 
    $3,500,000; and
        State Road and Ebner Coulees, LaCrosse and Shelby, Wisconsin, 
    $1,467,000:
Provided, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $3,500,000 of available funds to initiate 
and complete construction of the Finn Revetment portion of the Red River 
Emergency Bank Protection, Arkansas and Louisiana, project: Provided 
further, That the Chief of Engineers is directed to use a fully funded 
contract for the construction of the Finn Revetment: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
is directed to use $3,500,000 of the funds appropriated herein to 
continue the Red River Levees and Bank Stabilization below Denison Dam, 
Arkansas, project, including the completion of studies to improve the 
stability of the levee system from Index, Arkansas, to the Louisiana 
State line and the continuation of rehabilitation work underway: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed to expend $500,000 in fiscal year 1994 
to initiate reconstruction of the Sacramento River floodwall between 
miles 58 and 60 of the Sacramento River, California, as an essential 
portion of the Sacramento Urban Levee Reconstruction project pursuant to 
the Sacramento River Flood Control Act of 1917, as amended, and the 
Local Cooperation Agreement signed on June 4, 1990: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
shall (1) use $2,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein to carry out 
engineering and design for the relocation of the comfort and lifeguard 
stations on the Atlantic Coast of New York City from Rockaway Inlet to 
Norton Point, New York, project as authorized by section 1076 of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 
102-240; 105 Stat. 2015), and (2) not later than one year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, report to Congress on the results of the 
expenditure of funds required under paragraph (1): Provided further, 
That with $2,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue 
construction of the Bethel, Alaska, project authorized by Public Law 99-
662, including but not limited to initiating lands and damages, erosion 
control construction, and continued related engineering and construction 
management: Provided further, That no fully allocated funding policy 
shall apply to the construction of the Bethel, Alaska, project: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $24,119,000 of the funds appropriated 
herein to continue the Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity, Louisiana, 
Hurricane Protection project, including continued construction of 
parallel protection along the Orleans and London Avenue Outfall Canals 
and the award of continuing contracts for construction of this parallel 
protection under the same terms and conditions specified for such work 
under this heading in Public Law 102-377: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to use $450,000 of the funds appropriated herein to complete 
the repair and restoration to a safe condition of the existing Tulsa and 
West Tulsa local protection project, Oklahoma, authorized by the Flood 
Control Act of 1941, Public Law 73-228: Provided further, That with 
$5,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, to remain available until 
expended, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to initiate construction of the Pike County, 
Kentucky, element of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River and 
Upper Cumberland River project authorized by section 202 of Public Law 
96-367, with initial efforts concentrated in the communities of Buskirk 
and McCarr, in accordance with the Huntington District Commander's 
preliminary draft detailed project report for Pike County, Kentucky, 
dated March 1993, using continuing contracts: Provided further, That 
with $700,000 of the funds appropriated herein, to remain available 
until expended, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to initiate construction, using continuing 
contracts, of the Williamsburg, Kentucky, element of the Levisa and Tug 
Forks of the Big Sandy River and Upper Cumberland River project 
authorized by section 202 of Public Law 96-367, in accordance with Plan 
B of the approved draft specific project report for Williamsburg, 
Kentucky, dated April 1993: Provided further, That with $19,300,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein, to remain available until expended, the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to continue to undertake structural and nonstructural work 
associated with the Barbourville, Kentucky, and the Harlan, Kentucky, 
elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River and Upper 
Cumberland River project authorized by section 202 of Public Law 96-367, 
and is further directed to design and construct a system to collect and 
transport sewage from the unincorporated community of Rio Vista to the 
Harlan, Kentucky, treatment plant, as part of the Harlan, Kentucky, 
element: Provided further, That with $5,365,000 of the funds 
appropriated herein, to remain available until expended, the Secretary 
of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to 
continue to undertake structural and nonstructural work associated with 
the Matewan, West Virginia, element of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the 
Big Sandy River and Upper Cumberland River project authorized by section 
202 of Public Law 96-367: Provided further, That with $3,500,000 of the 
funds appropriated herein, to remain available until expended, the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to continue construction of the Hatfield Bottom, West Virginia, 
element of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River and Upper 
Cumberland River project authorized by section 202 of Public Law 96-367 
using continuing contracts: Provided further, That no fully allocated 
funding policy shall apply to construction of the Matewan, West 
Virginia, Hatfield Bottom, West Virginia, Barbourville, Kentucky, and 
Harlan, Kentucky, elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy 
River and Upper Cumberland river project: Provided further, That with 
$1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue 
construction, using continuing contracts, of the Salyersville, Kentucky, 
cut-through channels project: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to initiate 
and complete construction of offshore breakwaters at Grand Isle, 
Louisiana, as an integral part of the repair of features of the Grand 
Isle and Vicinity, Louisiana, project damaged by Hurricane Andrew using 
funds previously appropriated for that purpose in the fiscal year 1992 
Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, Public Law 102-368, 
which are available for this work: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to 
continue construction of the section 14 bank stabilization program at 
McGregor Park in Clarksville, Tennessee, utilizing heretofore 
appropriated funds until the Federal funds limit of $500,000 is reached 
or bank protection for the entire park is completed: Provided further, 
That using $6,300,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue 
with the authorized Ouachita River Levees, Louisiana, project in an 
orderly but expeditious manner and within this amount, $3,800,000 shall 
be used to continue rehabilitation or replacement of all deteriorated 
drainage structures which threaten the security of this critical 
protection, and $2,500,000 shall be used to repair the river bank at 
Columbia, Louisiana, which is eroding and placing the project levee 
protecting the city in imminent danger of failure: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
is directed to utilize $3,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein to 
provide design and construction assistance for a water transmission line 
from the northern part of Beaver Lake, Arkansas, into Benton and 
Washington Counties, Arkansas, as authorized by section 220 of Public 
Law 102-580; and in addition, $145,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, is hereby appropriated for construction of the Red River 
Waterway, Mississippi River to Shreveport, Louisiana, project, as 
authorized by laws, and the Secretary of the Army is directed to 
continue the second phase of construction of Locks and Dams 4 and 5; 
complete construction of Howard Capout, McDade, Elm Grove, Cecile, 
Curtis, Sunny Point, and Eagle Bend Phase I and Phase II revetments in 
Pools 4 and 5, and levee modifications in Pool 5, all of which were 
previously directed to be initiated; and award continuing contracts in 
fiscal year 1994 for construction of the following features of the Red 
River Waterway which are not to be considered fully funded: recreation 
facilities in Pools 4 and 5, Piermont/Nicholas and Sunny Point Capouts, 
Lock and Dam 4 Upstream Dikes, Lock and Dam 5 Downstream Additional 
Control Structure, Wells Island Road Revetment, and construction 
dredging in Pool 4; all as authorized by laws, and the Secretary is 
further directed to provide annual reimbursement to the project's local 
sponsor for the Federal share of management costs for the Bayou Bodcau 
Mitigation Area as authorized by Public Law 101-640, the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1990.

 Flood Control, Mississippi River and Tributaries, Arkansas, Illinois, 
        Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee

    For expenses necessary for prosecuting work of flood control, and 
rescue work, repair, restoration, or maintenance of flood control 
projects threatened or destroyed by flood, as authorized by law (33 
U.S.C. 702a, 702g-1), $348,875,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $2,400,000 is provided for the Eastern Arkansas Region, 
Arkansas, project.

                   Operation and Maintenance, General

    For expenses necessary for the preservation, operation, maintenance, 
and care of existing river and harbor, flood control, and related works, 
including such sums as may be necessary for the maintenance of harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality or other public agency, 
outside of harbor lines, and serving essential needs of general commerce 
and navigation; surveys and charting of northern and northwestern lakes 
and connecting waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removal 
of obstructions to navigation, $1,688,990,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which such sums as become available in the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662, may be derived 
from that fund, and of which $18,000,000 shall be for construction, 
operation, and maintenance of outdoor recreation facilities, to be 
derived from the special account established by the Land and Water 
Conservation Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l), and of which 
funds are provided for the following projects in the amounts specified:
        Tucson Diversion Channel, Arizona, $550,000;
        Los Angeles River (Sepulveda Basin to Arroyo Seco), California, 
    $400,000;
        Oceanside Experimental Sand Bypass, California, $4,000,000;
        Los Angeles County Drainage Area (Hansen Dam), California, 
    $2,790,000;
        Flint River Flood Control, Michigan, $2,500,000;
        Sauk Lake, Minnesota, $40,000; and
        New Madrid County Harbor, Missouri, $250,000:
Provided, That not to exceed $7,000,000 shall be available for 
obligation for national emergency preparedness programs: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $5,000,000 of available funds to undertake 
and complete critical maintenance items for water supply of the Kentucky 
River Locks and Dams 5-14 and to transfer such facilities to the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army is directed during fiscal year 1994 to maintain a minimum 
conservation pool level of 475.5 at Wister Lake in Oklahoma: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use Operation and Maintenance funds and 
complete, in coordination with the schedule for feasibility phase, 
studies to deepen the Columbia River navigation channel, long-term 
dredge disposal plans for the existing authorized Columbia River 
Navigation Channel project, including associated fish and wildlife 
studies.

                           Regulatory Program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $92,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                  Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies

    For expenses necessary for emergency flood control, hurricane, and 
shore protection activities, as authorized by section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act approved August 18, 1941, as amended, $20,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                           Oil Spill Research

    For expenses necessary to carry out the purposes of the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund, pursuant to title VII of the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990, $350,000, to be derived from the Fund and to remain available 
until expended.

                            General Expenses

    For expenses necessary for general administration and related 
functions in the Office of the Chief of Engineers and offices of the 
Division Engineers; activities of the Coastal Engineering Research 
Board, the Humphreys Engineer Center Support Activity, and the Water 
Resources Support Center, $148,500,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $54,855,000 of the funds provided 
in this Act shall be available for general administration and related 
functions in the Office of the Chief of Engineers: Provided further, 
That no part of any other appropriation provided in title I of this Act 
shall be available to fund the activities of the Office of the Chief of 
Engineers.

                        Administrative Provisions

    During the current fiscal year the revolving fund, Corps of 
Engineers, shall be available for purchase (not to exceed 100 for 
replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    Sec. 101. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
close any Corps of Engineers District Office.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
transfer any functions of any Corps of Engineers District Office.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to fund 
the activities of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Civil Works.
    Sec. 104. Any funds heretofore appropriated and made available in 
Public Law 100-202 to carry out the provisions for the harbor 
modifications of the Cleveland Harbor, Ohio, project contained in Public 
Law 99-662; and in Public Law 102-104 for the development of Gateway 
Park at the Lower Granite Lock and Dam Project, Washington, may be 
utilized by the Secretary of the Army in carrying out projects and 
activities funded by this Act.
    Sec. 105. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
implement Defense Management Review Decision No. 918, dated September 
15, 1992, to transfer from the Corps of Engineers property 
accountability of automated data processing equipment and software 
acquired with funds from the revolving fund established by the Act of 
July 27, 1953, chapter 245, 33 U.S.C. 576.
    Sec. 106. In fiscal year 1994, the Secretary shall advertise for 
competitive bid at least 7,500,000 cubic yards of the hopper dredge 
volume accomplished with Government-owned dredges in fiscal year 1992.
    Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Secretary is 
authorized to use the dredge fleet of the Corps of Engineers to 
undertake projects when industry does not perform as required by the 
contract specifications or when the bids are more than 25 percent in 
excess of what the Secretary determines to be a fair and reasonable 
estimated cost of a well equipped contractor doing the work or to 
respond to emergency requirements.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Secretary 
of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is authorized to 
reprogram, obligate and expend such additional sums as necessary to 
continue construction and cover anticipated contract earnings of any 
water resources project which received an appropriation or allowance for 
construction in or through an appropriations Act or resolution of a 
current or last preceding fiscal year, in order to prevent the 
termination of a contract or the delay of scheduled work.
    Sec. 108. (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army is authorized 
to convey to the City of Galveston, Texas, fee simple absolute title to 
a parcel of land containing approximately 605 acres known as the San 
Jacinto Disposal Area located on the east end of Galveston Island, 
Texas, in the W.A.A. Wallace Survey, A-647 and A-648, City of Galveston, 
Galveston County, Texas, being part of the old Fort San Jacinto site, at 
the fair market value of such parcel to be determined in accordance with 
the provisions of subsection (d). Such conveyance shall only be made by 
the Secretary of the Army upon the agreement of the Secretary and the 
City as to all compensation due herein.
    (b) Compensation for Conveyance.--Upon receipt of compensation from 
the City of Galveston, the Secretary shall convey the parcel as 
described in subsection (a). Such compensation shall include--
        (1) conveyance to the Department of the Army of fee simple 
    absolute title to a parcel of land containing approximately 564 
    acres on Pelican Island, Texas, in the Eneas Smith Survey, A-190, 
    Pelican Island, City of Galveston, Galveston County, Texas, adjacent 
    to property currently owned by the United States. The fair market 
    value of such parcel will be determined in accordance with the 
    provision of subsection (d); and
        (2) payment to the United States of an amount equal to the 
    difference of the fair market value of the parcel to be conveyed 
    pursuant to subsection (a) and the fair market value of the parcel 
    to be conveyed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (c) Disposition of Spoil.--Costs of maintaining the Galveston Harbor 
and Channel will continue to be governed by the Local Cooperation 
Agreement (LCA) between the United States of America and the City of 
Galveston dated October 18, 1973, as amended. Upon conveyance of the 
parcel described in subsection (a), the Department of the Army shall be 
compensated directly for the present value of the total costs to the 
Department for disposal of dredge material and site preparation pursuant 
to the LCA, in excess of the present value of the total costs that would 
have been incurred if this conveyance had not been made.
    (d) Determination of Fair Market Value.--The fair market value of 
the land to be conveyed pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) shall be 
determined by independent appraisers using the market value method.
    (e) Navigational Servitude.--
        (1) Declaration of nonnavigability; public interest.--Unless the 
    Secretary finds, after consultation with local and regional public 
    officials (including local and regional public planning 
    organizations), that the proposed projects to be undertaken within 
    the parcel described in subsection (a) are not in the public 
    interest then, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), such parcel is 
    declared to be nonnavigable waters of the United States.
        (2) Limits on applicability; regulatory requirements.--The 
    declaration under paragraph (1) shall apply only to those parts of 
    the parcel described in subsection (a) which are or will be 
    bulkheaded and filled or otherwise occupied by permanent structures, 
    including marina facilities. All such work is subject to all 
    applicable Federal statutes and regulations including, but not 
    limited to, sections 9 and 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 
    1151; 33 U.S.C. 401 and 403), commonly known as the Rivers and 
    Harbors Appropriations Act of 1899, section 404 of the Federal Water 
    Pollution Control Act, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 
    1969.
        (3) Expiration date.--If, 20 years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, any area or part thereof described in 
    subsection (a) is not bulkheaded or filled or occupied by permanent 
    structures, including marina facilities, in accordance with the 
    requirements set out in paragraph (2), or if work in connection with 
    any activity permitted in paragraph (2) is not commenced within 5 
    years after issuance of such permits, then the declaration of 
    nonnavigability for such area or part thereof shall expire.
    (f) Survey and Study.--The 605-acre parcel and the 564-acre parcel 
shall be surveyed and further legally described prior to conveyance. Not 
later than 60 days following enactment of this Act, if he deems it 
necessary, the Secretary of the Army shall complete a review of the 
applicability of section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
to the said parcels.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 Central Utah Project Completion Account

    For the purpose of carrying out provisions of the Central Utah 
Project Completion Act, Public Law 102-575 (106 Stat. 4605), 
$24,770,000, to remain available until expended, of which $14,920,000 
shall be to carry out the activities authorized under title II of the 
Act and for feasibility studies of alternatives to the Uintah and Upalco 
Units, and of which $9,850,000 shall be deposited into the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account: Provided, That of the 
amounts deposited into the Account, $5,000,000 shall be considered the 
Federal Contribution authorized by paragraph 402(b)(2) of the Act and 
$4,850,000 shall be available to the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and 
Conservation Commission to carry out the activities authorized under 
title III of the Act.
    In addition, for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out 
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior under the Act, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    For carrying out the functions of the Bureau of Reclamation as 
provided in the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 
388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) and other 
Acts applicable to that Bureau as follows:


                          general investigations

    For engineering and economic investigations of proposed Federal 
reclamation projects and studies of water conservation and development 
plans and activities preliminary to the reconstruction, rehabilitation 
and betterment, financial adjustment, or extension of existing projects, 
to remain available until expended, $13,819,000: Provided, That, of the 
total appropriated, the amount for program activities which can be 
financed by the reclamation fund shall be derived from that fund: 
Provided further, That funds contributed by non-Federal entities for 
purposes similar to this appropriation shall be available for 
expenditure for the purposes for which contributed as though 
specifically appropriated for said purposes, and such amounts shall 
remain available until expended.


                           construction program

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For construction and rehabilitation of projects and parts thereof 
(including power transmission facilities for Bureau of Reclamation use) 
and for other related activities as authorized by law, to remain 
available until expended, $464,423,000 of which $46,507,000 shall be 
available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund authorized 
by section 5 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (43 U.S.C. 620d), and 
$160,470,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado River 
Basin Development Fund authorized by section 403 of the Act of September 
30, 1968 (43 U.S.C. 1543), and such amounts as may be necessary shall be 
considered as though advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund for the 
Boulder Canyon Project as authorized by the Act of December 21, 1928, as 
amended: Provided, That of the total appropriated, the amount for 
program activities which can be financed by the reclamation fund shall 
be derived from that fund: Provided further, That transfers to the Upper 
Colorado River Basin Fund and Lower Colorado River Basin Development 
Fund may be increased or decreased by transfers within the overall 
appropriation under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
contributed by non-Federal entities for purposes similar to this 
appropriation shall be available for expenditure for the purposes for 
which contributed as though specifically appropriated for said purposes, 
and such funds shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That no part of the funds herein approved shall be available for 
construction or operation of facilities to prevent waters of Lake Powell 
from entering any national monument: Provided further, That all costs of 
the safety of dams modification work at Coolidge Dam, San Carlos 
Irrigation Project, Arizona, performed under the authority of the 
Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 506), as amended, are 
in addition to the amount authorized in section 5 of said Act.


                         operation and maintenance

    For operation and maintenance of reclamation projects or parts 
thereof and other facilities, as authorized by law; and for a soil and 
moisture conservation program on lands under the jurisdiction of the 
Bureau of Reclamation, pursuant to law, to remain available until 
expended, $282,898,000: Provided, That of the total appropriated, the 
amount for program activities which can be financed by the reclamation 
fund shall be derived from that fund, and the amount for program 
activities which can be derived from the special fee account established 
pursuant to the Act of December 22, 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a, as 
amended), may be derived from that fund: Provided further, That of the 
total appropriated, such amounts as may be required for replacement work 
on the Boulder Canyon Project which would require readvances to the 
Colorado River Dam Fund shall be readvanced to the Colorado River Dam 
Fund pursuant to section 5 of the Boulder Canyon Project Adjustment Act 
of July 19, 1940 (43 U.S.C. 618d), and such readvances since October 1, 
1984, and in the future shall bear interest at the rate determined 
pursuant to section 104(a)(5) of Public Law 98-381: Provided further, 
That funds advanced by water users for operation and maintenance of 
reclamation projects or parts thereof shall be deposited to the credit 
of this appropriation and may be expended for the same purpose and in 
the same manner as sums appropriated herein may be expended, and such 
advances shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
revenues in the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund shall be available for 
performing examination of existing structures on participating projects 
of the Colorado River Storage Project.
    In addition, to remain available until expended, such sums as may be 
necessary to cover the cost of work associated with rebuilding the 
Minidoka Powerplant, Minidoka Project, Idaho, to be offset by funds 
provided by the Bonneville Power Administrator as authorized by section 
2406 of Public Law 102-486. Such offset will result in a final 
appropriation estimated at no more than $282,898,000.


                bureau of reclamation loans program account

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, of direct loans and/or grants, $12,900,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by the Small Reclamation 
Projects Act of August 6, 1956, as amended (43 U.S.C. 422a-422l): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$21,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
program for direct loans and/or grants, $600,000: Provided, That of the 
total sums appropriated, the amount of program activities which can be 
financed by the reclamation fund shall be derived from the fund.

                 Central Valley Project Restoration Fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, and habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, to remain available until expended, such 
sums as may be assessed and collected in the Central Valley Project 
Restoration Fund in fiscal year 1993 and such sums as become available 
in, and may be derived from, the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
in fiscal year 1994, pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), 3405(f) 
and 3406(c)(1) of Public Law 102-575: Provided, That the Bureau of 
Reclamation is directed to levy additional mitigation and restoration 
payments totaling $30,000,000 (October 1992 price levels), as authorized 
by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575: Provided further, That the 
Bureau of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect payments, 
revenues and surcharges in the amounts and manner authorized by sections 
3404(c)(3), 3405(f) and 3406(c)(1) of Public Law 102-575, respectively.

                     general administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses of general administration and related 
functions in the office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, $54,034,000, 
of which $1,171,000 shall remain available until expended, the total 
amount to be derived from the reclamation fund and to be nonreimbursable 
pursuant to the Act of April 19, 1945 (43 U.S.C. 377): Provided, That no 
part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be available for 
activities or functions budgeted for the current fiscal year as general 
administrative expenses.


                              emergency fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency fund'', as authorized 
by the Act of June 26, 1948 (43 U.S.C. 502), as amended, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes specified in said Act, 
$1,000,000, to be derived from the reclamation fund.


                               special funds

                            (transfer of funds)

    Sums herein referred to as being derived from the reclamation fund 
or special fee account are appropriated from the special funds in the 
Treasury created by the Act of June 17, 1902 (43 U.S.C. 391) or the Act 
of December 22, 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a, as amended), respectively. Such 
sums shall be transferred, upon request of the Secretary, to be merged 
with and expended under the heads herein specified; and the unexpended 
balances of sums transferred for expenditure under the head ``General 
Administrative Expenses'' shall revert and be credited to the 
reclamation fund.


                         administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed 13 passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only.

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

           Energy Supply, Research and Development Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy activities including the 
purchase, construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
and other expenses incidental thereto necessary for energy supply, 
research and development activities, and other activities in carrying 
out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101, et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion; purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not to 
exceed 24, of which 18 are for replacement only), $3,223,910,000 to 
remain available until expended, of which $4,500,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the Geothermal Resources Development Fund.

                Uranium Supply and Enrichment Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy in connection with 
operating expenses; the purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant 
and capital equipment and other expenses incidental thereto necessary 
for residual uranium supply and enrichment activities in carrying out 
the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7101, et seq.) and the Energy Policy Act (Public Law 102-486, section 
901), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; purchase of electricity as necessary and payment to the 
Tennessee Valley Authority under the settlement agreement filed with the 
United States Claims Court on December 18, 1987; purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles (not to exceed 5, of which 5 are for replacement only), 
$247,092,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
revenues received by the Department for residual uranium enrichment 
activities authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, and estimated 
to total $70,000,000 in fiscal year 1994, shall be retained and used for 
the specific purpose of offsetting costs incurred by the Department for 
such activities, notwithstanding section 3302(b) of title 31, United 
States Code: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as revenues are received during fiscal year 1994 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$177,092,000.

       Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out uranium enrichment facility 
decontamination and decommissioning, remedial actions and other 
activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and title X, 
subtitle A of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, $286,320,000 to be derived 
from the fund, to remain available until expended; and in addition, an 
estimated $49,679,000 in unexpended balances, consisting of an estimated 
$6,267,000 of unobligated balances and an estimated $43,412,000 of 
obligated balances, are transferred from the Uranium Supply and 
Enrichment Activities account, to be available for such expenses: 
Provided, That at least $40,600,000 of amounts derived from the fund for 
such expenses shall be expended in accordance with title X, subtitle A 
of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                 General Science and Research Activities

    For expenses of the Department of Energy activities including the 
purchase, construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
and other expenses incidental thereto necessary for general science and 
research activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including the 
acquisition or condemnation of any real property or facility or for 
plant or facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 15 for replacement only), 
$975,114,000, to remain available until expended, and, in addition, 
$640,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be used only to 
orderly terminate the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) project under 
terms and conditions as follows:
        (1) to the extent provided by guidelines of the Secretary of 
    Energy, full-time employees of contractors and designated 
    subcontractors whose employment is terminated by reason of the 
    termination of the SSC may receive (A) up to 90 days termination pay 
    dating from the date of termination notice, and (B) reasonable 
    relocation expenses and assistance;
        (2) the Secretary of Energy shall prepare and submit a report 
    with recommendations to the President and the Congress containing--
            (a) a plan to maximize the value of the investment that has 
        been made in the project and minimizing the loss to the United 
        States and involved States and persons, including 
        recommendations as to the feasibility of utilizing SSC assets in 
        whole or in part in pursuit of an international high energy 
        physics endeavor;
            (b) the Secretary is authorized to consult with and use 
        Universities Research Association and/or other contractors and/
        or recognized experts in preparing this report and 
        recommendations and is authorized to contract with such parties 
        as may be appropriate in carrying out such duties; and
            (c) the Secretary shall release any recommendations from 
        time to time as available, but the final report shall be 
        submitted by July 1, 1994; and
        (3) nothing herein or any action taken under this authority 
    shall be construed to change the Memorandum of Understanding between 
    the Secretary of Energy and the State of Texas dated November 9, 
    1990, regarding the project:
Provided, That none of the funds made available under this section for 
Department of Energy facilities may be obligated or expended for food, 
beverages, receptions, parties, country club fees, plants or flowers 
pursuant to any cost-reimbursable contract.

                       Nuclear Waste Disposal Fund

    For the nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes 
of Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $260,000,000 to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund. To 
the extent that balances in the fund are not sufficient to cover amounts 
available for obligation in the account, the Secretary shall exercise 
her authority pursuant to section 302(e)(5) of said Act to issue 
obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That of the 
amount herein appropriated, within available funds, not to exceed 
$5,500,000 may be provided to the State of Nevada, for the sole purpose 
of conduct of its scientific oversight responsibilities pursuant to the 
Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as amended: 
Provided further, That of the amount herein appropriated, not more than 
$7,000,000 may be provided to affected local governments, as defined in 
the Act, to conduct appropriate activities pursuant to the Act: Provided 
further, That within ninety days of the completion of each Federal 
fiscal year, each State or local entity shall provide certification to 
the Department of Energy, that all funds expended from such payments 
have been expended for activities as defined in Public Law 97-425, as 
amended. Failure to provide such certification shall cause such entity 
to be prohibited from any further funding provided for similar 
activities: Provided further, That none of the funds herein appropriated 
may be used directly or indirectly to influence legislative action on 
any matter pending before Congress or a State legislature or for any 
lobbying activity as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided further, That 
none of the funds herein appropriated may be used for litigation 
expenses: Provided further, That none of the funds herein appropriated 
may be used to support multistate efforts or other coalition building 
activities inconsistent with the restrictions contained in this Act: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this Act shall 
be made available for Phase II-B grants to study the feasibility of 
siting a Monitored Retrievable Storage Facility.

            Isotope Production and Distribution Program Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses for isotope production and 
distribution activities, $3,910,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Atomic Energy Defense Activities


                            weapons activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 109 for replacement only, 
including one police-type vehicle), and the purchase of one rotary-wing 
aircraft, $3,595,198,000, to remain available until expended.


          defense environmental restoration and waste management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental 
restoration and waste management activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 
125 of which 122 are for replacement only including 9 police-type 
vehicles), $5,181,855,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That a total of $8,000,000 shall be transferred from this account to the 
Environmental Protection Agency for the implementation of the Waste 
Isolation Pilot Plan Land Withdrawal Act of 1992 and the development of 
cleanup standards to guide the Department of Energy's environmental 
restoration efforts.


               materials support and other defense programs

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense materials 
support, and other defense activities in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 
45 for replacement only), $1,963,755,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the New Production Reactor Appropriation 
Account shall be merged with and the balances made available to this 
appropriation.


                      defense nuclear waste disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $120,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, all of which shall be used in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the Nuclear Waste Fund appropriation of the 
Department of Energy contained in this title.

                       Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
Departmental Administration and other activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101, 
et seq.), including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $35,000), 
$401,238,000 to remain available until expended, plus such additional 
amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost 
of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency 
Act (31 U.S.C. 1511, et seq.): Provided, That such increases in cost of 
work are offset by revenue increases of the same or greater amount, to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That moneys received 
by the Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to total 
$239,209,000 in fiscal year 1994 may be retained and used for operating 
expenses within this account, and may remain available until expended, 
as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, notwithstanding the 
provisions of section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount 
of miscellaneous revenues received during fiscal year 1994 so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $162,029,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $30,362,000, to remain available until expended.

                     POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

         Operation and Maintenance, Alaska Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of projects in 
Alaska and of marketing electric power and energy, $4,010,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for official 
reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $3,000.
    During fiscal year 1994, no new direct loan obligations may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy 
pursuant to the provisions of section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 
(16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the southeastern power area, 
$29,742,000, to remain available until expended.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, and 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 connected therewith, in carrying out the provisions of 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southwestern power area, $33,587,000, to remain available until 
expended; in addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
not to exceed $5,583,000 in reimbursements, to remain available until 
expended.

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), and 
other related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, including official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, the purchase, maintenance, 
and operation of one fixed-wing aircraft for replacement only, 
$272,956,000, to remain available until expended, of which $260,400,000 
shall be derived from the Department of the Interior Reclamation fund; 
in addition, $5,000,000 is appropriated for deposit into the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account pursuant to title IV of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to 
transfer from the Colorado River Dam Fund to the Western Area Power 
Administration $7,168,000, to carry out the power marketing and 
transmission activities of the Boulder Canyon project as provided in 
section 104(a)(4) of the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984, to remain 
available until expended.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101, et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles; official reception 
and representation expenses (not to exceed $3,000); $165,375,000 to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That hereafter and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $165,375,000 
of revenues from fees and annual charges, and other services and 
collections in fiscal year 1994, shall be retained and used for 
necessary expenses in this account, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as revenues are received during fiscal year 1994, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $0.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended, 
notwithstanding section 405 of said Act, and for necessary expenses for 
the Federal Cochairman and the alternate on the Appalachian Regional 
Commission and for payment of the Federal share of the administrative 
expenses of the Commission, including services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, to remain available until expended, $249,000,000.

                 DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $16,560,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     DELAWARE RIVER BASIN COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the United 
States member of the Delaware River Basin Commission, as authorized by 
law (75 Stat. 716), $333,000.

             Contribution to Delaware River Basin Commission

    For payment of the United States share of the current expenses of 
the Delaware River Basin Commission, as authorized by law (75 Stat. 706, 
707), $488,000.

            INTERSTATE COMMISSION ON THE POTOMAC RIVER BASIN

    Contribution to Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin

    To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to pay in advance to the 
Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin the Federal 
contribution toward the expenses of the Commission during the current 
fiscal year in the administration of its business in the conservancy 
district established pursuant to the Act of July 11, 1940 (54 Stat. 
748), as amended by the Act of September 25, 1970 (Public Law 91-407), 
$498,000.

                      NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, including the employment of 
aliens; services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; publication and dissemination of atomic information; purchase, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms, official representation expenses (not 
to exceed $20,000); reimbursements to the General Services 
Administration for security guard services; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft, $542,900,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $22,000,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: 
Provided, That from this appropriation, transfer of sums may be made to 
other agencies of the Government for the performance of the work for 
which this appropriation is made, and in such cases the sums so 
transferred may be merged with the appropriation to which transferred: 
Provided further, That moneys received by the Commission for the 
cooperative nuclear safety research program, services rendered to 
foreign governments and international organizations, and the material 
and information access authorization programs, including criminal 
history checks under section 149 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as 
amended, may be retained and used for salaries and expenses associated 
with those activities, notwithstanding the provisions of section 3302 of 
title 31, United States Code, and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $520,900,000 
in fiscal year 1994 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding the provisions of section 
3302 of title 31, United States Code, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 1994 from 
licensing fees, inspection services and other services and collections, 
excluding those moneys received for the cooperative nuclear safety 
research program, services rendered to foreign governments and 
international organizations, and the material and information access 
authorization programs, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1994 
appropriation estimated at not more than $22,000,000.

                       Office of Inspector General


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, $4,800,000 to remain available until expended; and 
in addition, an amount not to exceed 5 percent of this sum may be 
transferred from Salaries and Expenses, Nuclear Regulatory Commission: 
Provided, That notice of such transfers shall be given to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided further, That from 
this appropriation, transfers of sums may be made to other agencies of 
the Government for the performance of the work for which this 
appropriation is made, and in such cases the sums so transferred may be 
merged with the appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections shall be retained and used for necessary 
salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code, and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall 
be reduced by the amount of revenues received during fiscal year 1994 
from licensing fees, inspection services, and other services and 
collections, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $0.

                  NUCLEAR WASTE TECHNICAL REVIEW BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $2,160,000, to be 
transferred from the Nuclear Waste Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                 OFFICE OF THE NUCLEAR WASTE NEGOTIATOR

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the office of the Nuclear Waste Negotiator 
in carrying out activities authorized by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 
1982, as amended by Public Law 102-486, section 802, $1,000,000 to 
remain available until expended.

                   SUSQUEHANNA RIVER BASIN COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the United 
States member of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission as authorized by 
law (84 Stat. 1541), $308,000.

           Contribution to Susquehanna River Basin Commission

    For payment of the United States share of the current expenses of 
the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, as authorized by law (84 Stat. 
1530, 1531), $298,000.

                       TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY

                     Tennessee Valley Authority Fund

    For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority Act of 1933, as amended (16 U.S.C. ch. 12A), including 
purchase, hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, and purchase and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $140,473,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISION

      MINORITY PARTICIPATION IN THE SUPERCONDUCTING SUPER COLLIDER

    Sec. 501. (a) Program Improvements.--Section 304 of the Energy and 
Water Development Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-377; 106 
Stat. 1339) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``owned or controlled'' and inserting ``that 
        (1) are owned and controlled'';
            (B) by inserting after ``Native Americans'' the following: 
        ``; or (2) are small business concerns that are at least 51 
        percent owned by 1 or more women and whose management and daily 
        business operations are controlled by 1 or more women''; and
            (C) by striking the last sentence;
        (2) by inserting ``and (d)'' after ``(6)'' each place it 
    appears; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Administration of Program.--
        ``(1) Certification requirement.--A business concern or other 
    organization shall be eligible for participation under this section 
    only if it has been certified as meeting the requirements specified 
    in subsection (a) by the Small Business Administration, or by a 
    State, local, regional, or other organization designated by the 
    Small Business Administration.
        ``(2) Records and reports.--The Secretary of Energy, with 
    respect to the Superconducting Super Collider project, shall--
            ``(A) submit to the Congress copies of--
                ``(i) each subcontracting report for individual 
            contracts (SF294) required under the Federal Acquisition 
            Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) to be submitted by a 
            contractor or subcontractor with respect to the project; and
                ``(ii) each summary subcontract report (SF295) required 
            under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) 
            to be submitted by a contractor or subcontractor with 
            respect to the project; and
            ``(B) maintain accurate information and data on the amount 
        and type of subcontracts awarded by each contractor or 
        subcontractor under the project and the extent of participation 
        in the subcontracts by socially and economically disadvantaged 
        individuals and economically disadvantaged women referred to in 
        subsection (b).
        ``(3) Categories of work to be included.--The Secretary of 
    Energy shall, to the fullest extent possible, ensure that the 
    categories of work performed under contracts entered into pursuant 
    to this section are representative of all categories of work 
    performed under contract for the Superconducting Super Collider 
    project.
        ``(4) Audits.--The Secretary of Energy shall conduct periodic 
    audits to verify the continuing compliance of prime contractors and 
    subcontractors with the requirements of this section. For such 
    purpose, the Secretary shall have access to such reports and records 
    of prime contractors and subcontractors as the Secretary determines 
    to be necessary.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to fiscal year 1994 and thereafter.

SEC. 502. COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICAN ACT.

    No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended by an 
entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance the 
entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 
(41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').

SEC. 503. SENSE OF CONGRESS; REQUIREMENT REGARDING NOTICE.

    (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case 
of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased with 
financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in expending 
the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice To Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the head of each Federal agency shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

SEC. 504. PROHIBITION OF CONTRACTS.

    If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that 
any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' 
inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product 
sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or 
subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant to 
the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.