[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4602 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4602

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other 
purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management


                    management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, and 
performance of other functions, including maintenance of facilities, as 
authorized by law, in the management of lands and their resources under 
the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, including the 
general administration of the Bureau of Land Management, $598,449,000, 
to remain available until expended, including $1,462,000 to be derived 
from the special receipt account established by section 4 of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-
6a(i)): Provided, That appropriations herein made shall not be 
available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and 
burros in the care of the Bureau of Land Management or its contractors; 
and in addition, $21,650,000 for Mining Law Administration program 
operations, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by 
amounts collected by the Bureau of Land Management and credited to this 
appropriation from annual mining claim fees so as to result in a final 
appropriation estimated at not more than $598,449,000: Provided 
further, That in addition to funds otherwise available, not to exceed 
$5,000,000 from annual mining claim fees shall be credited to this 
account for the costs of administering the mining claim fee program, 
and shall remain available until expended.


                             fire protection

    For necessary expenses for fire use and management, and fire 
preparedness by the Department of the Interior, $114,968,000, to remain 
available until expended.


          emergency department of the interior firefighting fund

    For emergency rehabilitation, severity presuppression, and wildfire 
operations of the Department of the Interior, $121,176,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That such funds also are available 
for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from which 
funds were previously transferred for such purposes: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, persons hired pursuant 
to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging without cost 
from funds available from this appropriation: Provided further, That 
only amounts for emergency rehabilitation and wildfire operations that 
are in excess of the average of such costs for the previous ten years 
shall be considered ``emergency requirements'' pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For expenses necessary for use by the Department of the Interior 
and any of its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, 
including associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, 
pollutants, or contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
seq.), $13,435,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the Department pursuant to sections 107 or 
113(f) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9607 or 9613(f)), shall be 
credited to this account and shall be available without further 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That such sums recovered from or paid by any party are not 
limited to monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other 
personal or real property, which may be retained, liquidated, or 
otherwise disposed of by the Secretary of the Interior and which shall 
be credited to this account.


                         construction and access

    For acquisition of lands and interests therein, and construction of 
buildings, recreation facilities, roads, trails, and appurtenant 
facilities, $12,091,000, to remain available until expended.


                        payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976 (31 
U.S.C. 6901-07), $104,108,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 205, 
206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94-579 including administrative expenses 
and acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, $14,785,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain 
available until expended.


                    oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$97,550,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 per 
centum of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the provisions of the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title 
II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 876).


                            range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 per 
centum of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under 
sections 3 and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and 
the amount designated for range improvements from grazing fees and 
mineral leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the 
Department of the Interior pursuant to law, but not less than 
$10,350,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $600,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.


                service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under sections 209(b), 304(a), 304(b), 305(a), and 504(g) of 
the Act approved October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and sections 101 
and 203 of Public Law 93-153, to be immediately available until 
expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision to the contrary 
of section 305(a) of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), 
any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant to that section, 
whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if not 
appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended under the 
authority of this or subsequent appropriations Acts by the Secretary to 
improve, protect, or rehabilitate any public lands administered through 
the Bureau of Land Management which have been damaged by the action of 
a resource developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, 
without regard to whether all moneys collected from each such 
forfeiture, compromise, or settlement are used on the exact lands 
damage to which led to the forfeiture, compromise, or settlement: 
Provided further, That such moneys are in excess of amounts needed to 
repair damage to the exact land for which collected.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
law, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure 
printing services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing 
either in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator 
is capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                           resource management

    For expenses necessary for scientific and economic studies, 
conservation, management, investigations, protection, and utilization 
of fishery and wildlife resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, 
and for the performance of other authorized functions related to such 
resources; for the general administration of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service; and for maintenance of the herd of long-horned cattle 
on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge; and not less than $1,000,000 
for high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget 
which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as 
authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public Law 93-
408, $513,815,000, of which $11,732,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance of fishery mitigation facilities constructed by the Corps 
of Engineers under the Lower Snake River Compensation Plan, authorized 
by the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2921), to 
compensate for loss of fishery resources from water development 
projects on the Lower Snake River, and which shall remain available 
until expended; and of which $3,000,000 shall be provided to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for endangered species 
activities: Provided, That the amount provided to the National Fish and 
Wildlife Foundation shall be matched by at least an equal amount by the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation: Provided further, That sums may 
be made available to the States of Washington, Oregon, and California 
to conduct monitoring activities related to the President's Forest 
Plan.


                               construction

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, 
and utilization of fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition 
of lands and interests therein; $53,914,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-380), and the Act of July 27, 1990 (Public Law 
101-337); $6,700,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts 
appropriated or credited in fiscal year 1992 and thereafter, may be 
transferred to any account to carry out the provisions of negotiated 
legal settlements or other legal actions for restoration activities and 
to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, 
et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
1251, et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380), and 
the Act of July 27, 1990 (Public Law 101-337) for damage assessment 
activities: Provided further, That sums provided by any party are not 
limited to monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other 
personal or real property, which may be retained, liquidated or 
otherwise disposed of by the Secretary and such sums or properties 
shall be utilized for the restoration of injured resources, and to 
conduct new damage assessment activities.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and for 
activities authorized under Public Law 98-244 to be carried out by the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, $67,410,000, to be derived from 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended.


             cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended by 
Public Law 100-478, $9,000,000 for grants to States, to be derived from 
the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, and to remain 
available until expended.


                      national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $12,000,000.


                          rewards and operations

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the African 
Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 
4241-4245, and 1538), $1,169,000, to remain available until expended.


                north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, $9,000,000.

              wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For deposit to the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be available for 
carrying out the Partnerships for Wildlife Act only to the extent such 
funds are matched as provided in section 7105 of said Act.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 127 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 106 are for replacement only 
(including 44 for police-type use); not to exceed $400,000 for payment, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, for information, rewards, or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service, and miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized or approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on his certificate; repair of 
damage to public roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused 
by operations of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; options 
for the purchase of land at not to exceed $1 for each option; 
facilities incident to such public recreational uses on conservation 
areas as are consistent with their primary purpose; and the maintenance 
and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities under the 
jurisdiction of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and to 
which the United States has title, and which are utilized pursuant to 
law in connection with management and investigation of fish and 
wildlife resources: Provided, That the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft: Provided further, That nothwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the 
Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly-produced publications for which 
the cooperators share at least one-half the cost of printing either in 
cash or services and the Service determines the cooperator is capable 
of meeting accepted quality standards.

                       National Biological Survey

                   research, inventories, and surveys

    For authorized expenses necessary for scientific research relating 
to species biology, population dynamics, and ecosystems; inventory and 
monitoring activities; technology development and transfer; the 
operation of Cooperative Research Units; and for the general 
administration of the National Biological Survey, $167,209,000, of 
which $166,909,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1996, and 
of which $300,000 shall remain available until expended for 
construction: Provided, That none of the funds under this head shall be 
used to conduct new surveys on private property unless specifically 
authorized in writing by the property owner.

                         National Park Service


                  operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not to exceed $1,599,000 for 
the Volunteers-in-Parks program, and not less than $1,000,000 for high 
priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which shall 
be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act 
of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public Law 93-408, $1,079,963,000, 
without regard to the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
451), of which not to exceed $79,900,000, to remain available until 
expended is to be derived from the special fee account established 
pursuant to title V, section 5201, of Public Law 100-203: Provided, 
That should any increase in fees be enacted after enactment of this Act 
but prior to September 30, 1995, that would be available for the 
programs under this heading, the Secretary of the Interior shall make 
available under this heading an amount equal to the amount collected by 
such fee increase to the ``Operation of the National Park System'' 
account for purposes for which such fees are authorized, as approved by 
the Secretary and subject to the reprogramming guidelines of the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That these 
funds shall be used for one-time, non-recurring purposes only.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, environmental compliance and review, 
international park affairs, statutory or contractual aid for other 
activities, and grant administration, not otherwise provided for, 
$43,023,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915), as amended (16 U.S.C. 
470), $41,500,000, to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, 
established by section 108 of that Act, as amended, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1996.


                               construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, $184,941,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $4,500,000 shall be paid to the Army Corps of 
Engineers for modifications authorized by section 104 of the Everglades 
National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989: Provided further, 
That $256,000 for rehabilitation of the William McKinley Tomb and 
$500,000 for the Penn Center shall be derived from the Historic 
Preservation Fund pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 470a: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, a single procurement for 
the construction of the vessel exhibit at Salem Maritime National 
Historic Site may be issued which includes the full scope of the 
project: Provided further, That the solicitation and the contract shall 
contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232.18.

                     urban park and recreation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Urban 
Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501-2514), 
$7,500,000, to remain available until expended.


                     land and water conservation fund

                               (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 1995 by 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.


                  land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the National Park Service, $87,936,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended, of which $4,800,000 is provided for Federal assistance to the 
State of Florida pursuant to Public Law 103-219, and of which 
$28,000,000 is for the State assistance program including $3,250,000 to 
administer the State assistance program: Provided, That of the amounts 
previously appropriated to the Secretary's contingency fund for grants 
to States $415,000 shall be available in 1995 for administrative 
expenses of the State grant program.

                       administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 467 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
338 shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 360 for 
police-type use, 12 buses, and 5 ambulances: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process 
any grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 
U.S.C. 1913: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to 
the National Park Service may be used to implement an agreement for the 
redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island until such agreement 
has been submitted to the Congress and shall not be implemented prior 
to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full and comprehensive report on the development of the southern 
end of Ellis Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon 
in support of the proposed project: Provided further, That the first 
proviso under this head in Public Law 102-381 (106 Stat. 1384) is 
amended by inserting ``, not to exceed $250,000 per incident,'' after 
the word ``funds'' and by inserting ``: Provided further, That any 
exercise of this authority must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation which must be requested as promptly as possible'' after 
the word ``System''.

                    United States Geological Survey


                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, and the mineral and water resources of the United 
States, its Territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized 
by law (43 U.S.C. 31, 1332 and 1340); classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and 
publish and disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; 
$572,556,000, of which $62,130,000 shall be available only for 
cooperation with States or municipalities for water resources 
investigations: Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
used to pay more than one-half the cost of any topographic mapping or 
water resources investigations carried on in cooperation with any State 
or municipality: Provided further, That of the offsetting collections 
credited to this account $546,000 are permanently canceled.


                           working capital fund

    The first paragraph under this head in Public Law 101-512 is 
amended as follows: in the second sentence after ``work,'' insert 
``facilities,''; and in the third sentence after ``include'' insert 
``laboratory modernization and equipment replacement,'', after 
``operations'' insert ``, maintenance,'', and after ``replacement of 
computer,'' insert ``publications, scientific instrumentation,''.
    The second paragraph under this head in Public Law 101-512 is 
amended as follows: in the second proviso after ``depreciation of 
equipment'' insert ``and facilities,''.


                        administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 22 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; reimbursement to the General Services 
Administration for security guard services; contracting for the 
furnishing of topographic maps and for the making of geophysical or 
other specialized surveys when it is administratively determined that 
such procedures are in the public interest; construction and 
maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant facilities; 
acquisition of lands for gauging stations and observation wells; 
expenses of the United States National Committee on Geology; and 
payment of compensation and expenses of persons on the rolls of the 
United States Geological Survey appointed, as authorized by law, to 
represent the United States in the negotiation and administration of 
interstate compacts: Provided, That activities funded by appropriations 
herein made may be accomplished through the use of contracts, grants, 
or cooperative agreements as defined in 31 U.S.C. 6302, et seq.

                      Minerals Management Service


                 royalty and offshore minerals management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of 
royalties, as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations 
applicable to oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses 
and operating contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative 
agreements; including the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only; $189,056,000, of which not less 
than $68,184,000 shall be available for royalty management activities; 
and an amount not to exceed $8,800,000 for the Technical Information 
Management System of Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Lands Activity, to 
be credited to this appropriation and to remain available until 
expended, from additions to receipts resulting from increases to rates 
in effect on August 5, 1993, from rate increases to fee collections for 
OCS administrative activities performed by the Minerals Management 
Service over and above the rates in effect on September 30, 1993, and 
from additional fees for OCS administrative activities established 
after September 30, 1993: Provided, That $1,500,000 for computer 
acquisitions shall remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this Act shall be available for 
the payment of interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721 (b) and (d): 
Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for 
reasonable expenses related to promoting volunteer beach and marine 
cleanup activities: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $15,000 under this head shall be available for 
refunds of overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in 
which the Director of the Minerals Management Service concurred with 
the claimed refund due: Provided further, That the Secretary shall take 
appropriate action to collect unpaid and underpaid royalties and late 
payment interest owed by Federal and Indian mineral lessees and other 
royalty payors on amounts received in settlement or other resolution of 
disputes under, and for partial or complete termination of, sales 
agreements for minerals from Federal and Indian leases: Provided 
further, That the fifth proviso under the heading ``Leasing and Royalty 
Management'' for the Minerals Management Service in Public Law 101-512 
(104 Stat. 1926) is amended by striking the words ``or payment of civil 
penalty'' after the words ``result of the forfeiture of a bond or other 
security'' and striking the words ``or imposition of the civil 
penalty'' after the words ``rendered necessary by the action or 
inaction that led to the forfeiture'': Provided further, That where the 
account title ``Leasing and Royalty Management'' appears in any public 
law, the words ``Leasing and Royalty Management'' beginning in fiscal 
year 1995 and thereafter shall be construed to mean ``Royalty and 
Offshore Minerals Management''.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes of title I, 
section 1016, title IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title 
VIII, section 8201 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,452,000, which 
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended.

                            Bureau of Mines


                            mines and minerals

    For expenses necessary for conducting inquiries, technological 
investigations, and research concerning the extraction, processing, 
use, and disposal of mineral substances without objectionable social 
and environmental costs; to foster and encourage private enterprise in 
the development of mineral resources and the prevention of waste in the 
mining, minerals, metal, and mineral reclamation industries; to inquire 
into the economic conditions affecting those industries; to promote 
health and safety in mines and the mineral industry through research; 
and for other related purposes as authorized by law, $152,719,000, of 
which $100,065,000, shall remain available until expended.


                        administrative provisions

  The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
other contributions, and fees from public and private sources, and to 
prosecute projects using such contributions and fees in cooperation 
with other Federal, State or private agencies: Provided, That the 
Bureau of Mines is authorized, during the current fiscal year, to sell 
directly or through any Government agency, including corporations, any 
metal or mineral product that may be manufactured in pilot plants 
operated by the Bureau of Mines, and the proceeds of such sales shall 
be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
is authorized to convey, without reimbursement, title and all interest 
of the United States in property and facilities of the United States 
Bureau of Mines in Juneau, Alaska to the City and Borough of Juneau, 
Alaska; in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, to The University of Alabama; and in 
Rolla, Missouri, to the University of Missouri-Rolla.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement


                        regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 15 passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; $110,006,000, and notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, an additional amount shall be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended, from performance bond forfeitures in 
fiscal year 1995: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, may 
utilize directly or through grants to States, moneys collected in 
fiscal year 1995 pursuant to the assessment of civil penalties under 
section 518 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 
(30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim lands adversely affected by coal mining 
practices after August 3, 1977, to remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.


                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of title IV of 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-
87, as amended, including the purchase of not more than 22 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only, $182,772,000 to be derived from 
receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That grants to minimum program States will be 
$1,500,000 per State in fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That of the 
funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 may be used for the emergency 
program authorized by section 410 of Public Law 95-87, as amended, of 
which no more than 25 per centum shall be used for emergency 
reclamation projects in any one State and funds for Federally-
administered emergency reclamation projects under this proviso shall 
not exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year unobligated 
funds appropriated for the emergency reclamation program shall not be 
subject to the 25 per centum limitation per State and may be used 
without fiscal year limitation for emergency projects: Provided 
further, That pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the 
Interior is authorized to utilize up to 20 per centum from the recovery 
of the delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

    For operation of Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
cooperative agreements, and grants including expenses necessary to 
provide education and welfare services for Indians, either directly or 
in cooperation with States and other organizations, including payment 
of care, tuition, assistance, and other expenses of Indians in boarding 
homes, or institutions, or schools; grants and other assistance to 
needy Indians; maintenance of law and order; management, development, 
improvement, and protection of resources and appurtenant facilities 
under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including 
payment of irrigation assessments and charges; acquisition of water 
rights; advances for Indian industrial and business enterprises; 
operation of Indian arts and crafts shops and museums; development of 
Indian arts and crafts, as authorized by law; for the general 
administration of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including such expenses 
in field offices; maintaining of Indian reservation roads as defined in 
section 101 of title 23, United States Code; and construction, repair, 
and improvement of Indian housing, $1,526,778,000, of which $208,000 
shall be for cyclical maintenance of tribally owned fish hatcheries and 
related facilities; and of which $297,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Close Up Foundation; and of which not to exceed $95,823,000 shall be 
for payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract support 
costs associated with ongoing contracts or grants or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended: 
Provided, That tribes and tribal contractors may use their tribal 
priority allocations for unmet contract support costs of ongoing 
contracts, grants or compact agreements; and of which not to exceed 
$330,111,000 shall be for school operations costs of Bureau-funded 
schools and other education programs which shall become available for 
obligation on July 1, 1995, and shall remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996; and of which not to exceed $72,580,000 shall 
be for higher education scholarships, adult vocational training, and 
assistance to public schools under the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 
596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 452 et seq.), which shall remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1996; and of which $75,902,000 shall 
remain available until expended, including $16,206,000 for trust funds 
management, $19,083,000 for housing improvement, $30,169,000 for road 
maintenance, $2,332,000 for attorney fees, $1,983,000 for litigation 
support, $4,934,000 for self-governance tribal compacts, and $1,195,000 
for the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided, That payments of 
funds obligated as grants to schools pursuant to Public Law 100-297 
shall be made not later than July 15 and December 1 in lieu of the 
payments authorized to be made on October 1 and January 1 of each 
calendar year: Provided further, That funds made available to tribes 
and tribal organizations through contracts or grants obligated during 
fiscal year 1995 as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), or grants authorized by 
the Indian Education Amendments of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2001 and 2008A) 
shall remain available until expended by the contractor or grantee: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $7,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended, for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, which 
shall be available for the transitional costs of initial or expanded 
tribal contracts, grants or cooperative agreements with the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination 
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs shall be expended as matching funds for 
programs funded under section 103(b)(2) of the Carl D. Perkins 
Vocational Education Act: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be used by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to transfer 
funds under a contract with any third party for the management of 
tribal or individual Indian trust funds until the funds held in trust 
for all such tribes or individuals have been audited and reconciled to 
the earliest possible date, the results of such reconciliation have 
been certified by an independent party as the most complete 
reconciliation of such funds possible, and the affected tribe or 
individual has been provided with an accounting of such funds: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the statute 
of limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, including any 
claim in litigation pending on the date of this Act, concerning losses 
to or mismanagement of trust funds, until the affected tribe or 
individual Indian has been furnished with the accounting of such funds 
from which the beneficiary can determine whether there has been a loss: 
Provided further, That to provide funding uniformity within a Self-
Governance Compact, any funds provided in this Act with availability 
for more than one year may be reprogrammed to one year availability but 
shall remain available within the Compact until expended: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, Indian tribal 
governments may, by appropriate changes in eligibility criteria or by 
other means, change eligibility for general assistance or change the 
amount of general assistance payments for individuals within the 
service area of such tribe who are otherwise deemed eligible for 
general assistance payments so long as such changes are applied in a 
consistent manner to individuals similarly situated: Provided further, 
That any savings realized by such changes shall be available for use in 
meeting other priorities of the tribes: Provided further, That any such 
change must be part of a comprehensive tribal plan for reducing the 
long-term need for general assistance payments: Provided further, That 
any such tribal plan must incorporate, to the greatest extent feasible, 
currently existing social service, educational training, and employment 
assistance resources prior to changing general assistance eligibility 
or payment standards which would have the effect of increasing the cost 
of general assistance: Provided further, That any net increase in costs 
to the Federal government which result solely from tribally increased 
payment levels and which are not part of such a comprehensive tribal 
plan shall be met exclusively from funds available to the tribe from 
within its tribal priority allocation: Provided further, That any 
forestry funds allocated to a tribe which remain unobligated as of 
September 30, 1995, may be transferred during fiscal year 1996 to an 
Indian forest land assistance account established for the benefit of 
such tribe within the tribe's trust fund account: Provided further, 
That any such unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on 
September 30, 1996: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
other than the amounts provided herein for assistance to public schools 
under the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 
452 et seq.), shall be available to support the operation of any 
elementary or secondary school in the State of Alaska in fiscal year 
1995: Provided further, That within the funds contained in this Act, 
only the following new schools may receive initial funding pursuant to 
the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 2001(k) or 2505(a)(1)(C) and (D): Trenton 
and Sault Ste. Marie: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
establish a Joint Working Group on ISEP Funds Allocation to consult 
with Indian tribes and schools on improving the basis for allocating 
Indian School Equalization Program funds: Provided further, That funds 
made available in this or any other Act for expenditure through 
September 30, 1996 for schools funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
shall be available only to the 187 schools which will be in the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs school system as of September 1, 1995.

                              construction

    For construction, major repair, and improvement of irrigation and 
power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, 
$130,270,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$1,500,000 of the funds made available in this Act shall be available 
for rehabilitation of tribally owned fish hatcheries and related 
facilities: Provided further, That such amounts as may be available for 
the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project and for other 
water resource development activities related to the Southern Arizona 
Water Rights Settlement Act may be transferred to the Bureau of 
Reclamation: Provided further, That not to exceed 6 per centum of 
contract authority available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the 
Federal Highway Trust Fund may be used to cover the road program 
management costs of the Bureau of Indian Affairs: Provided further, 
That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams program pursuant to 25 
U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a non-reimbursable basis: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $6,000,000 of contract authority and 
liquidating cash available in fiscal year 1995 from the Federal Highway 
Trust Fund may be used for the acquisition of road construction 
equipment: Provided further, That funds currently obligated for 
rehabilitation and construction on the Gila River Indian Reservation 
may be used to purchase and pump water during fiscal year 1995: 
Provided further, That for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, 
in implementing new construction or facilities improvement and repair 
project grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to tribally 
controlled grant schools under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit 
Requirements and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs contained in 
43 CFR part 12 as the regulatory requirements: Provided further, That 
such grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the 
Secretary and the grantee shall negotiate and determine a schedule of 
payments for the work to be performed; and the funds shall be disbursed 
in not more than two payments per year: Provided further, That in 
considering applications, the Secretary shall consider whether the 
Indian tribe or tribal organization would be deficient in assuring that 
the construction projects conform to applicable building standards and 
codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety standards as 
required by 25 U.S.C. 2005(a), with respect to organizational and 
financial management capabilities: Provided further, That if the 
Secretary declines an application, the Secretary shall follow the 
requirements contained in 25 U.S.C. 2505(f): Provided further, That any 
disputes between the Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant shall 
be subject to the disputes provision in 25 U.S.C. 2508(e).


  indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, $77,096,000, to remain available 
until expended; of which $73,051,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 87-483, 97-293, 101-618, 102-374, 102-441, 102-
575, and 103-116, and for implementation of other enacted water rights 
settlements, including not to exceed $8,000,000, which shall be for the 
Federal share of the Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina Claims 
Settlement, as authorized by section 5(a) of Public Law 103-116; and of 
which $1,045,000 shall be available pursuant to Public Laws 98-500, 99-
264, and 100-580; and of which $3,000,000 shall be available (1) to 
liquidate obligations owed tribal and individual Indian payees of any 
checks canceled pursuant to section 1003 of the Competitive Equality 
Banking Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-86 (101 Stat. 659)), 31 U.S.C. 
3334(b), (2) to restore to Individual Indian Monies trust funds, Indian 
Irrigation Systems, and Indian Power Systems accounts amounts invested 
in credit unions or defaulted savings and loan associations and which 
were not Federally insured, including any interest on these amounts 
that may have been earned, but was not because of the default, and (3) 
to reimburse Indian trust fund account holders for losses to their 
respective accounts where the claim for said loss(es) has been reduced 
to a judgment or settlement agreement approved by the Department of 
Justice.


                     navajo rehabilitation trust fund

    For Navajo tribal rehabilitation and improvement activities in 
accordance with the provisions of section 32(d) of Public Law 93-531, 
as amended (25 U.S.C. 640d-30), including necessary administrative 
expenses, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                technical assistance of indian enterprises

    For payment of management and technical assistance requests 
associated with loans and grants approved under the Indian Financing 
Act of 1974, as amended, $1,970,000.


                    indian direct loan program account

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, including the cost of modifying loans, of expert 
assistance loans authorized by the Act of November 4, 1963, as amended, 
and the cost of direct loans authorized by the Indian Financing Act of 
1974, as amended, $2,484,000: Provided, That these funds are available 
to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
not to exceed $10,890,000.


                  indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $8,784,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal any part of which is to be guaranteed not to exceed 
$46,900,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $906,000.


                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
the Technical Assistance of Indian Enterprises account, the Indian 
Direct Loan Program account, and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program 
account) shall be available for expenses of exhibits, and purchase of 
not to exceed 255 passenger carrying motor vehicles, of which not to 
exceed 210 shall be for replacement only.

                 Territorial and International Affairs


                      administration of territories

    For expenses necessary for the administration of territories under 
the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $80,239,000 of 
which (1) $75,962,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, drug 
interdiction and abuse prevention, insular management controls, and 
brown tree snake control and research; grants to the judiciary in 
American Samoa for compensation and expenses, as authorized by law (48 
U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of American Samoa, in 
addition to current local revenues, for construction and support of 
governmental functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands 
as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as authorized 
by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands as 
authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $4,277,000 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Territorial and International Affairs: Provided, That all financial 
transactions of the territorial and local governments herein provided 
for, including such transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities 
established or utilized by such governments, may be audited by the 
General Accounting Office, at its discretion, in accordance with 
chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That 
Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be provided 
according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special 
Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance for the 
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 99-396, or any 
subsequent legislation related to Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands Covenant grant funding, except that should the Secretary of the 
Interior believe that the performance standards of such agreement are 
not being met, operations funds may be withheld, but only by Act of 
Congress as required by Public Law 99-396: Provided further, That 
$1,025,000 of the amounts provided for technical assistance shall be 
available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, 
That the funds for the program of operations and maintenance 
improvement are appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and 
maintenance of capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the 
Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the 
Federated States of Micronesia through assessments of long-range 
operations and maintenance needs, improved capability of local 
operations and maintenance institutions and agencies (including 
management and vocational education training), and project-specific 
maintenance (with territorial participation and cost sharing to be 
determined by the Secretary based on the individual territory's 
commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): Provided 
further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under this head 
in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-Federal 
matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided 
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).


                  trust territory of the pacific islands

    For expenses necessary for the Department of the Interior in 
administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands pursuant 
to the Trusteeship Agreement approved by joint resolution of July 18, 
1947 (61 Stat. 397), and the Act of June 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 330), as 
amended (90 Stat. 299; 91 Stat. 1159; 92 Stat. 495), and grants to the 
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, in addition to local revenues, 
for support of governmental functions, $19,838,000 to be available 
until expended, including $18,464,000 for operations of the Government 
of Palau: Provided, That all financial transactions of the Trust 
Territory, including such transactions of all agencies or 
instrumentalities established or utilized by such Trust Territory, may 
be audited by the General Accounting Office, at its discretion, in 
accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That all Government operations funds appropriated and 
obligated for the Republic of Palau under this account for fiscal year 
1995, except for $692,000 for special programs, shall be credited as an 
off-set against fiscal year 1995 payments made pursuant to the Compact 
of Free Association (Public Law 99-658), if such Compact is implemented 
before October 1, 1995: Provided further, That not less than $300,000 
of the grants to the Republic of Palau, for support of governmental 
functions, shall be dedicated to the College of Micronesia in 
accordance with the agreement between the Micronesian entities.


                       compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compacts of 
Free Association, $24,602,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by Public Law 99-239: Provided, That the effective date of 
the Palau Compact for purposes of economic assistance pursuant to the 
Palau Compact of Free Association, Public Law 99-658, shall be the 
effective date of the Palau Compact as determined pursuant to section 
101 of Public Law 101-219.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the 
Interior, $62,599,000 of which not to exceed $7,500 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $1,184,000 are permanently 
canceled.

                        Office of the Solicitor


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $34,674,000.

                      Office of Inspector General


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$23,985,000.

                        Construction Management


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Construction Management, 
$2,000,000.

                   National Indian Gaming Commission


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Indian Gaming Commission, 
pursuant to Public Law 100-497, $1,000,000.


                        administrative provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 18 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in the ``Office of the Secretary'', 
``Office of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; 
for contingency planning subsequent to actual oilspills; response and 
natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual 
oilspills; for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 
1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation 
projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, 
from any no year funds available to the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit 
assumption of regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not 
carrying out the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: 
Provided, That appropriations made in this title for fire suppression 
purposes shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
during the preceding fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other 
Federal agencies for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other 
equipment in connection with their use for fire suppression purposes, 
such reimbursement to be credited to appropriations currently available 
at the time of receipt thereof: Provided further, That for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities, no funds shall be 
made available under this authority until funds appropriated to the 
``Emergency Department of the Interior Firefighting Fund'' shall have 
been exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible: Provided further, That such replenishment funds shall be used 
to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds 
were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, U.S.C.: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the 
Interior for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. 
Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued for services or rentals 
for periods not in excess of twelve months beginning at any time during 
the fiscal year.
    Sec. 107. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of Northern, 
Central, and Southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 108. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of leasing, or the approval 
or permitting of any drilling or other exploration activity, on lands 
within the North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 109. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico for Outer Continental Shelf 
Lease Sale 151 in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil 
Resource Management Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Atlantic for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 164 
in the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil Resource Management 
Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds in this Act may be used to publish a 
National final rule defining the term ``valid existing rights'' for 
purposes of section 522(e) of the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977 or to publish a final rule disapproving any 
existing State definition of valid existing rights.
    Sec. 112. If the House-Senate Conference Committee on H.R. 322 
fails to report legislation which is enacted prior to the adjournment 
of the 103d Congress sine die, none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws or to issue a 
patent for any mining or mill site claim located under the general 
mining laws.
    Sec. 113. The provisions of section 112 shall not apply if the 
Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned: (1) 
a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or before the date 
of enactment of this Act, and (2) all requirements established under 
sections 2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) 
for vein or lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the 
Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and 
section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site 
claims, as the case may be, were fully complied with by the applicant 
by that date.
    Sec. 114. Of the offsetting collections credited to public 
enterprise fund numbered 14-4053 in fiscal year 1995, $38,000 is 
permanently canceled as a result of procurement cost savings.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 1995 and thereafter, appropriations made to the Department of the 
Interior in this title may be used to fund incrementally research work 
orders for cooperative agreements with colleges and universities, State 
agencies, and nonprofit organizations that overlap fiscal years: 
Provided, That such cooperative agreements shall contain a statement 
that ``the obligation of funds for future incremental payments shall be 
subject to the availability of funds.''.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service


                             forest research

    For necessary expenses of forest research as authorized by law, 
$200,130,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996.


                        state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with, and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, Territories, possessions, and 
others and for forest pest management activities, cooperative forestry 
and education and land conservation activities, $161,264,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by law.

                    emergency pest suppression fund

    For necessary expenses for emergency suppression of pests, 
$17,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds, or any portion thereof, shall be available in fiscal year 1995 
only to the extent that the President notifies the Congress of his 
designation of any or all of these amounts as emergency requirements 
under section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That Congress hereby designates 
these amounts as emergency requirements pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.


                          international forestry

    For necessary expenses of international forestry as authorized by 
Public Laws 101-513 and 101-624, $7,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1996.

                         national forest system


                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, for ecosystem planning, inventory, and 
monitoring, and for administrative expenses associated with the 
management of funds provided under the heads ``Forest Research'', 
``State and Private Forestry'', ``National Forest System'', 
``Construction'', ``Forest Service Fire Protection'', ``Emergency 
Forest Service Firefighting Fund'', and ``Land Acquisition'' 
$1,345,112,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1996, and including 65 per centum of all monies received during the 
prior fiscal year as fees collected under the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended, in accordance with section 4 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)): Provided, That unobligated and 
unexpended balances in the National Forest System account at the end of 
fiscal year 1994, shall be merged with and made a part of the fiscal 
year 1995 National Forest System appropriation, and shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1996: Provided further, 
That up to $5,000,000 of the funds provided herein for road maintenance 
shall be available for the planned obliteration of roads which are no 
longer needed: Provided further, That funds in the amount of 
$12,000,000 provided under this head in prior years' appropriations 
Acts for fire management are rescinded: Provided further, That timber 
volume authorized or scheduled for sale during fiscal year 1994, but 
which remains unsold at the end of fiscal year 1994, shall be offered 
for sale during fiscal year 1995 in addition to the fiscal year 1995 
timber sale volume to the extent possible.


                      forest service fire protection

    For necessary expenses for firefighting on or adjacent to National 
Forest System lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, and 
for forest fire management and presuppression on National Forest System 
lands, $159,590,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
unexpended balances of amounts previously appropriated for this purpose 
under the heading ``Forest Service Firefighting'', Forest Service, may 
be transferred to and merged with this appropriation and accounted for 
as one appropriation for the same time period as originally enacted.

               emergency forest service firefighting fund

    For necessary expenses for emergency rehabilitation, presuppression 
due to emergencies or economic efficiency, and wildfire suppression 
activities of the Forest Service, $226,200,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That such funds are available for repayment 
of advances from other appropriation accounts previously transferred 
for such purposes.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
252(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended.
    In addition, for necessary expenses for emergency rehabilitation, 
presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire suppression activities 
of the Forest Service, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That these funds, or any portion thereof, shall be 
available only (1) to the extent that the President notifies the 
Congress of his designation of any or all of these amounts as emergency 
requirements under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended, and (2) if the amounts annually appropriated 
under this heading, but not designated as emergency requirements 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, have been at least 
equal to the most recent ten-year historical average, less any enacted 
cost saving program reforms: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.


                               construction

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for construction, $203,186,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $71,443,000 is for construction and acquisition of 
buildings and other facilities; and $131,743,000 is for construction 
and repair of forest roads and trails by the Forest Service as 
authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, 
That funds becoming available in fiscal year 1994 under the Act of 
March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to the General Fund 
of the Treasury of the United States: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be 
obligated for the construction of forest roads by timber purchasers.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the Forest Service, $65,436,000, to be derived from the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended.


          acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,252,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.


             acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, to be derived from funds deposited by 
State, county, or municipal governments, public school districts, or 
other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of December 4, 
1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until expended.

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 per centum of all moneys received during the prior 
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in 
National Forests in the sixteen Western States, pursuant to section 
401(b)(1) of Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed 6 per centum shall be available for 
administrative expenses associated with on-the-ground range 
rehabilitation, protection, and improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $89,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.


                administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (a) purchase of not to exceed 156 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 15 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 148 shall be for replacement only; acquisition of 
79 passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such 
vehicles; operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to 
exceed two for replacement only, and acquisition of 14 aircraft from 
excess sources; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing 
aircraft being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in 
value used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; 
(b) services pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (c) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (d) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein, pursuant to the Act 
of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 428a); (e) for expenses pursuant to the 
Volunteers in the National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, 
558a note); and (f) for debt collection contracts in accordance with 31 
U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to change the boundaries of any region, to abolish any 
region, to move or close any regional office for research, State and 
private forestry, or National Forest System administration of the 
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, without the consent of the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry in the United States Senate and 
the Committee on Agriculture in the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
advanced to the Forest Service Firefighting appropriation and may be 
used for forest firefighting and the emergency rehabilitation of 
burned-over lands under its jurisdiction: Provided, That no funds shall 
be made available under this authority until funds appropriated to the 
``Emergency Forest Service Firefighting Fund'' shall have been 
exhausted.
    The appropriation structure for the Forest Service may not be 
altered without advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Office of International Cooperation and Development in connection 
with forest and rangeland research, technical information, and 
assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with United States 
and international organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with 
the reprogramming procedures contained in the report accompanying this 
Act.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service may be used to disseminate 
program information to private and public individuals and organizations 
through the use of nonmonetary items of nominal value and to provide 
nonmonetary awards of nominal value and to incur necessary expenses for 
the nonmonetary recognition of private individuals and organizations 
that make contributions to Forest Service programs.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money collected, in 
advance or otherwise, by the Forest Service under authority of section 
101 of Public Law 93-153 (30 U.S.C. 185(1)) as reimbursement of 
administrative and other costs incurred in processing pipeline right-
of-way or permit applications and for costs incurred in monitoring the 
construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of any pipeline 
and related facilities, may be used to reimburse the applicable 
appropriation to which such costs were originally charged.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the 
Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, 
as amended by Public Law 93-408.
    None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for timber 
sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 
percent of the fiscal year 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National 
Forest, Ohio: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to 
hardwood stands damaged by natural disaster: Provided further, That 
landscape architects shall be used to maintain a visually pleasing 
forest.
    Any money collected from the States for fire suppression assistance 
rendered by the Forest Service on non-Federal lands not in the vicinity 
of National Forest System lands shall be used to reimburse the 
applicable appropriation and shall remain available until expended as 
the Secretary may direct in conducting activities authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 2101 (note), 2101-2110, 1606, and 2111.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Forest Service is 
authorized to employ or otherwise contract with persons at regular 
rates of pay, as determined by the Service, to perform work occasioned 
by emergencies such as fires, storms, floods, earthquakes or any other 
unavoidable cause without regard to Sundays, Federal holidays, and the 
regular workweek.
    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    None of the funds made available in this Act shall be used for 
timber sale planning or scoping using clearcutting in the Ouachita and 
Ozark-St. Francis National Forests in Arkansas, except for sales that 
are necessary as a result of natural disaster or a threat to forest 
health, or for maintaining or enhancing wildlife habitat, or habitat 
for endangered and threatened species, or for research purposes.
    Pursuant to section 405(b), and section 410(b) of Public Law 101-
593, of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $1,000,000 for 
matching funds shall be available for the National Forest Foundation.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY


                          clean coal technology

    The first paragraph under this head in Public Law 101-512, as 
amended, is further amended by striking the phrase ``$100,000,000 on 
October 1, 1994, and $50,000,000 on October 1, 1995'' and inserting 
``$18,000,000 on October 1, 1994, $100,000,000 on October 1, 1995, and 
$32,000,000 on October 1, 1996''; and by striking the phrase 
``$275,000,000 on October 1, 1994, and $100,000,000 on October 1, 
1995'' and inserting ``$19,121,000 on October 1, 1994, $100,000,000 on 
October 1, 1995, and $255,879,000 on October 1, 1996'': Provided, That 
not to exceed $18,000,000 available in fiscal year 1995 may be used for 
administrative oversight of the Clean Coal Technology program.


                  fossil energy research and development

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, $442,614,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$17,000,000 shall be derived by transfer of unobligated balances from 
the ``SPR petroleum account'': Provided, That no part of the sum herein 
made available shall be used for the field testing of nuclear 
explosives in the recovery of oil and gas.


                       alternative fuels production

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Monies received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1994, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the General Fund of the 
Treasury. Monies received as revenue sharing from the operation of the 
Great Plains Gasification Plant shall be immediately transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury.


                  naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For necessary expenses in carrying out naval petroleum and oil 
shale reserve activities, $187,406,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) 
shall not apply in fiscal year 1995.


                           energy conservation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $793,194,000, to remain available until expended, 
including, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the excess 
amount for fiscal year 1995 determined under the provisions of section 
3003(d) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided, That 
$278,399,000 shall be for use in energy conservation programs as 
defined in section 3008(3) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507) and 
shall not be available until excess amounts are determined under the 
provisions of section 3003(d) of Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 
99-509 such sums shall be allocated to the eligible programs as 
follows: $226,800,000 for the weatherization assistance program, 
$22,539,000 for the State energy conservation program, and $29,060,000 
for the institutional conservation program.

                          economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the 
Economic Regulatory Administration and the Office of Hearings and 
Appeals, $12,437,000, to remain available until expended.


                          emergency preparedness

    For necessary expenses in carrying out emergency preparedness 
activities, $8,249,000, to remain available until expended.


                       strategic petroleum reserve

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant 
to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $244,011,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $90,764,000 shall be derived by transfer of unobligated 
balances from the ``SPR petroleum account'': Provided, That 
appropriations herein made shall not be available for leasing of 
facilities for the storage of crude oil for the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve unless the quantity of oil stored in or deliverable to 
Government-owned storage facilities by virtue of contractual 
obligations is equal to 700,000,000 barrels.


                          spr petroleum account

    Notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 6240(d) the United States share of crude 
oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk Hills) may be sold or 
otherwise disposed of to other than the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: 
Provided, That outlays in fiscal year 1995 resulting from the use of 
funds in this account shall not exceed $9,000,000.

                   energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $84,728,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding section 4(d) of the Service 
Contract Act of 1965 (41 U.S.C. 353(d)) or any other provision of law, 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used to enter into a 
contract for end use consumption surveys for a term not to exceed eight 
years.

            administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made 
to other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for 
which the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to 
prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, 
private, or foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received 
by or for the account of the Department of Energy or otherwise 
generated by sale of products in connection with projects of the 
Department appropriated under this Act may be retained by the Secretary 
of Energy, to be available until expended, and used only for plant 
construction, operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities 
as provided in appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: 
Provided further, That the remainder of revenues after the making of 
such payments shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts: Provided further, That any contract, agreement, or provision 
thereof entered into by the Secretary pursuant to this authority shall 
not be executed prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days (not 
including any day in which either House of Congress is not in session 
because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full comprehensive 
report on such project, including the facts and circumstances relied 
upon in support of the proposed project.
    The Secretary of Energy may transfer to the Emergency Preparedness 
appropriation such funds as are necessary to meet any unforeseen 
emergency needs from any funds available to the Department of Energy 
from this Act.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service


                          indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles III and XXVII and section 208 of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$1,713,052,000, together with payments received during the fiscal year 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 300aaa-2 for services furnished by the Indian 
Health Service: Provided, That funds made available to tribes and 
tribal organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any other 
agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450), shall 
be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract award 
and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
$12,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for the Indian 
Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund: Provided further, That $351,258,000 
for contract medical care shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996: Provided further, That of the funds provided, not 
less than $11,603,000 shall be used to carry out the loan repayment 
program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as 
amended: Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may be used 
for one-year contracts and grants which are to be performed in two 
fiscal years, so long as the total obligation is recorded in the year 
for which the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That the 
amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
the authority of title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall be available for two fiscal years after the fiscal year in which 
they were collected, for the purpose of achieving compliance with the 
applicable conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the 
Social Security Act (exclusive of planning, design, or construction of 
new facilities): Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$7,500,000 shall remain available until expended, for the Indian Self-
Determination Fund, which shall be available for the transitional costs 
of initial or expanded tribal contracts, grants or cooperative 
agreements with the Indian Health Service under the provisions of the 
Indian Self-Determination Act: Provided further, That funding contained 
herein, and in any earlier appropriations Acts for scholarship programs 
under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996: Provided 
further, That amounts received by tribes and tribal organizations under 
title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended, shall 
be reported and accounted for and available to the receiving tribes and 
tribal organizations until expended.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the 
Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, 
and titles III and XXVII and section 208 of the Public Health Service 
Act with respect to environmental health and facilities support 
activities of the Indian Health Service, $253,767,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction or renovation of health facilities for the benefit of an 
Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land for sites to 
construct, improve, or enlarge health or related facilities: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law a single 
procurement for the construction of the Fort Belknap, Montana health 
center and satellite clinic and a single procurement for construction 
of the White Earth, Minnesota health center may be issued which 
includes the full scope of the project: Provided further, That the 
solicitation and the contract shall contain the clause ``availability 
of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232.18.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); and for expenses of attendance 
at meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for 
which the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved 
conduct, supervision, or management of those functions or activities: 
Provided, That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care 
at all tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, 
subject to charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under 
the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-53) shall be 
credited to the account of the facility providing the service and shall 
be available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health 
Service shall be administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian 
Sanitation Facilities Act) and Public Law 93-638, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act, except those used for administrative and program direction 
purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at curtailing 
Federal travel and transportation: Provided further, That the Indian 
Health Service shall neither bill nor charge those Indians who may have 
the economic means to pay unless and until such time as Congress has 
agreed upon a specific policy to do so and has directed the Indian 
Health Service to implement such a policy: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds previously or herein 
made available to a tribe or tribal organization through a contract, 
grant or agreement authorized by title I of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 
U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-governance 
funding agreement under title III of the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act of 1975 and thereafter shall remain available 
to the tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian 
Health Service in this Act shall be used to implement the final rule 
published in the Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the 
Department of Health and Human Services, relating to eligibility for 
the health care services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian 
Health Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased 
costs associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has 
been included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted 
for in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided 
further, That the appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service 
may not be altered without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That in fiscal year 
1995 and thereafter (a) the Secretary may enter into personal services 
contracts with entities, either individuals or organizations, for the 
provision of services in facilities owned, operated or constructed 
under the jurisdiction of the Indian Health Service; (b) the Secretary 
may exempt such a contract from competitive contracting requirements 
upon adequate notice of contracting opportunities to individuals and 
organizations residing in the geographic vicinity of the health 
facility; (c) consideration of individuals and organizations shall be 
based solely on the qualifications established for the contract and the 
proposed contract price; and (d) individuals providing health care 
services pursuant to these contracts are covered by the Federal Tort 
Claims Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Indian Health Service clinic in Stilwell, Oklahoma shall be 
known and designated as the ``Wilma P. Mankiller Indian Health 
Clinic'': Provided further, That any reference in a law, regulation, 
document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to the 
clinic referenced in the preceding proviso shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the ``Wilma P. Mankiller Indian Health Clinic'': Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in fiscal year 1994 to increase the 
level of need funded for the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska may be used to 
purchase land with an existing improvement to be used as a tribally 
owned health care facility: Provided further, That the Secretary, 
acting through the Indian Health Service, may contract with the 
Southcentral Foundation for the operation of the Dena A Coy substance 
abuse treatment program in Anchorage, Alaska under the authority of 
Public Law 93-638, the Indian Self-Determination Act, 25 U.S.C. 450: 
Provided further, That money heretofore and hereafter collected for 
meals served at Indian Health Service facilities will be credited to 
the appropriations from which the services were furnished and shall be 
credited to the appropriation when received.

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

              Office of Elementary and Secondary Education


                             indian education

    For necessary expenses to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title VI of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965, as amended, including, to the extent determined necessary by the 
Secretary, continuing projects begun under the Indian Education Act of 
1988, $83,500,000: Provided, That $1,735,000 available pursuant to 
section 6203 of the Act shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $24,936,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household: Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home: Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development


                         payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by Public Law 99-498, as 
amended (20 U.S.C. 56, Part A), $11,213,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the annual budget proposal 
and justification for the Institute shall be submitted to the Congress 
concurrently with the submission of the President's Budget to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the Institute shall act as its own 
certifying officer.

                        Smithsonian Institution


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed thirty years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to 5 replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, rental, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees; $314,454,000, of which 
not to exceed $32,000,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, exhibition 
reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, the 
repatriation of skeletal remains program, research equipment, 
information management, and Latino programming shall remain available 
until expended and, including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations.


         construction and improvements, national zoological park

    For necessary expenses of planning, construction, remodeling, and 
equipping of buildings and facilities at the National Zoological Park, 
by contract or otherwise, $4,050,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                   repair and restoration of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair and restoration of buildings owned 
or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract or otherwise, 
as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 
623), including not to exceed $10,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $24,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, 
and exterior repair or restoration of buildings of the Smithsonian 
Institution may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on 
the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $29,300,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a single procurement for the construction of the 
National Museum of the American Indian Cultural Resources Center may be 
issued which includes the full scope of the project: Provided further, 
That the solicitation and the contract shall contain the clause 
``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 52.232.18.

                        National Gallery of Art


                          salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for replacement only; 
and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works of art for 
the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without advertising, 
with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or prices and 
under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, 
$53,003,000, of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special 
exhibition program shall remain available until expended.


             repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized $4,431,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts


                        operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $10,343,000.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses of capital repair and rehabilitation of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $9,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$9,878,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $141,950,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to groups and 
individuals pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and for administering 
the functions of the Act, to remain available until September 30, 1996.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$29,150,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996, to the 
National Endowment for the Arts, of which $12,750,000 shall be 
available for purposes of section 5(l): Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as 
may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of 
money, and other property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of 
the Endowment under the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 
11(a)(2)(A) and 11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal 
years for which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                          reduction of funding

    Each amount appropriated or otherwise made available by this title 
for ``National Endowment for the Arts'' is hereby reduced by 2.0 
percent.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities


                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $151,420,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
September 30, 1996.


                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$25,963,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996, of which 
$14,000,000 shall be available to the National Endowment for the 
Humanities for the purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as 
may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of 
money, and other property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of 
the Endowment under the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 
11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                      Institute of Museum Services


                        grants and administration

    For carrying out title II of the Arts, Humanities, and Cultural 
Affairs Act of 1976, as amended, $28,770,000.


                        administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                        Commission of Fine Arts


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $834,000.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (99 Stat. 
1261; 20 U.S.C. 956(a)), as amended, $7,500,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing an Advisory 
Council on Historic Preservation, Public Law 89-665, as amended, 
$2,947,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall be available for 
the compensation of Executive Level V or higher positions.

                  National Capital Planning Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,655,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members will be compensated at a rate equivalent to the rate for 
Executive Schedule Level IV.

             Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial 
Commission, established by the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 694), 
as amended by Public Law 92-332 (86 Stat. 401), $48,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.

              Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by section 17(a) of Public 
Law 92-578, as amended, $2,738,000 for operating and administrative 
expenses of the Corporation.

                           public development

    For public development activities and projects in accordance with 
the development plan as authorized by section 17(b) of Public Law 92-
578, as amended, $4,084,000, to remain available until expended.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council


                        holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388, as amended, $26,660,000; of which $2,700,000 shall 
be for repair and rehabilitation projects and shall remain available 
until expended.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
opposition to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is 
not complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of 
such department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless notice of 
such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the Committees 
on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
    Sec. 307. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 308. The Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management may 
offer for sale salvageable timber in the Pacific Northwest in fiscal 
year 1995: Provided, That for public lands known to contain the 
Northern spotted owl, such salvage sales may be offered as long as the 
offering of such sale will not render the area unsuitable as habitat 
for the Northern spotted owl: Provided further, That timber salvage 
activity in spotted owl habitat is to be done in full compliance with 
all existing environmental and forest management laws.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant 
sequoia (sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest 
System or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than 
such sales were conducted in fiscal year 1994.
    Sec. 310. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any increase in government housing rental rates in excess of 
10 per centum more than the rental rates which were in effect on 
September 1, 1994, for such housing.
    Sec. 311. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal 
of the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 312. Notwithstanding any other provision of law in fiscal year 
1995 and thereafter, appropriations made available to any department or 
agency in a Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act shall be available to that department or agency to 
reimburse the representative (as that term is defined by applicable 
law) of employees killed in the line of duty after January 1, 1994, and 
in subsequent fiscal years, for burial costs and related out-of-pocket 
expenses: Provided, That the amount of such reimbursement may exceed 
the $800 limitation in 5 U.S.C. 8134(a): Provided further, That funds 
provided pursuant to this authority may not exceed $10,000 per 
employee.
    Sec. 313. With the exception of budget authority for 
``Miscellaneous payments to Indians'', Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
Department of the Interior; ``Salaries and expenses'', National Indian 
Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior; ``Payment to the 
Institute'', Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and 
Arts Development; ``Salaries and expenses'', Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars; ``Salaries and expenses'' and 
``National capital arts and cultural affairs'', Commission of Fine 
Arts; ``Salaries and expenses'', Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation; ``Salaries and expenses'', National Capital Planning 
Commission; ``Salaries and expenses'', Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
Memorial Commission; and ``Salaries and expenses'', ``Public 
development'', Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, each amount 
of budget authority for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, 
provided in this Act, for payments not required by law is hereby 
reduced by 0.191 per centum: Provided, That such reductions shall be 
applied ratably to each account, program, activity, and project 
provided for in this Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.