[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4624 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4624

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
boards, commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, boards, 
commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1995, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 51, 53, 
55, and 61); pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized 
by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and 
burial benefits, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, 
adjusted-service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on 
commercial life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of 
Article IV of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as 
amended, and for other benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 
1312, 1977, and 2106, chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 
540-548; 43 Stat. 122, 123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198), 
$17,626,892,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not 
to exceed $25,750,000 of the amount appropriated shall be reimbursed to 
``General operating expenses'' and ``Medical care'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing those provisions authorized in the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, Public Law 101-508, and in the 
Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992, Public Law 102-568, the funding source 
for which is specifically provided as the ``Compensation and pensions'' 
appropriation: Provided further, That $6,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated shall be transferred to ``Medical facilities revolving 
fund'' to augment the funding of individual medical facilities for 
nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized by the Veterans' 
Benefits Act of 1992, Public Law 102-568.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 
31, 34, 35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61), $1,286,600,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to 
pay any court order, court award or any compromise settlement arising 
from litigation involving the vocational training program authorized by 
section 18 of Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
chapter 19; 70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487), $24,760,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 guaranty and indemnity program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $65,226,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                     loan guaranty program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $59,371,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                      direct loan program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That during 1995, 
within the resources available, not to exceed $1,000,000 in gross 
obligations for direct loans are authorized for specially adapted 
housing loans (38 U.S.C. chapter 37).
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $1,020,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                  education loan fund program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,061, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount 
of direct loans not to exceed $4,034.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $195,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $54,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount 
of direct loans not to exceed $1,964,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $767,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 38, U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, 
$218,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses''.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, 
as authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
equipment; funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for 
beneficiaries receiving care in Department of Veterans Affairs 
facilities; administrative expenses in support of planning, design, 
project management, real property acquisition and disposition, 
construction and renovation of any facility under the jurisdiction or 
for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs; oversight, 
engineering and architectural activities not charged to project cost; 
repairing, altering, improving or providing facilities in the several 
hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); aid to 
State homes as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 1741); and not to exceed 
$8,000,000 to fund cost comparison studies as referred to in 38 U.S.C. 
8110(a)(5); $16,232,756,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $771,000,000 is for the 
equipment and land and structures object classifications only, which 
amount shall not become available for obligation until August 1, 1995, 
and shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996: 
Provided further, That of the $15,622,452,000 made available under this 
heading for fiscal year 1994 in Public Law 103-124, the $9,863,265,000 
restricted by section 509 of Public Law 103-124 for personnel 
compensation and benefits expenditures is reduced to $9,813,265,000.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
chapter 73), to remain available until September 30, 1996, 
$252,000,000, plus reimbursements.

                health professional scholarship program

    For payment of health professional scholarship program grants, as 
authorized by law, to students who agree to a service obligation with 
the Department of Veterans Affairs at one of its medical facilities, 
$10,386,000.

      medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, architectural, engineering, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including site acquisition; engineering and 
architectural activities not charged to project cost; and research and 
development in building construction technology; $69,808,000, plus 
reimbursements.

               grants to the republic of the philippines

    For payment to the Republic of the Philippines of grants, as 
authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 1732), for assisting in the replacement 
and upgrading of equipment and in rehabilitating the physical plant and 
facilities of the Veterans Memorial Medical Center, $500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.

                   transitional housing loan program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8, which shall be transferred from the ``General post 
fund'': Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
not to exceed $70,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the direct loan program, $54,000, which shall be transferred 
from the ``General post fund'', as authorized by Public Law 102-54, 
section 8.

                      Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of 
overseas employee mail; $890,600,000, of which $25,500,000, for the 
acquisition of automated data processing equipment and services to 
support the modernization program in the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, shall not become available for obligation until 
September 1, 1995, and shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                        national cemetery system

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery System not otherwise provided for, including uniforms 
or allowances therefor, as authorized by law; cemeterial expenses as 
authorized by law; purchase of three passenger motor vehicles, for use 
in cemeterial operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$72,663,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $31,819,000.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 38, 
United States Code, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
$3,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $355,612,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That, except for advance planning 
of projects funded through the advance planning fund and the design of 
projects funded through the design fund, none of these funds shall be 
used for any project which has not been considered and approved by the 
Congress in the budgetary process: Provided further, That funds 
provided in this appropriation for fiscal year 1995, for each approved 
project shall be obligated (1) by the awarding of a construction 
documents contract by September 30, 1995, and (2) by the awarding of a 
construction contract by September 30, 1996: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall promptly report in writing to the Comptroller General 
and to the Committees on Appropriations any approved major construction 
project in which obligations are not incurred within the time 
limitations established above; and the Comptroller General shall review 
the report in accordance with the procedures established by section 
1015 of the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (title X of Public Law 93-
344): Provided further, That no funds from any other account except the 
``Parking revolving fund'', may be obligated for constructing, 
altering, extending, or improving a project which was approved in the 
budget process and funded in this account until one year after 
substantial completion and beneficial occupancy by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs of the project or any part thereof with respect to 
that part only.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in 
sections 316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 
of title 38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project 
is less than $3,000,000, $153,540,000, to remain available until 
expended, along with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, 
minor projects'' appropriations which are hereby made available for any 
project where the estimated cost is less than $3,000,000: Provided, 
That funds in this account shall be available for (1) repairs to any of 
the nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs which are necessary because of loss or 
damage caused by any natural disaster or catastrophe, and (2) temporary 
measures necessary to prevent or to minimize further loss by such 
causes.

                         parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
8109), $16,300,000, together with income from fees collected, to remain 
available until expended. Resources of this fund shall be available for 
all expenses authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109 except operations and 
maintenance costs which will be funded from ``Medical care''.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist the several States to acquire or construct 
State nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or 
alter existing hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in 
State homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. 8131-8137), $47,397,000, to remain available until expended.

        grants for the construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 2408), 
$5,378,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Any appropriation for 1995 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
may be transferred to any other of the mentioned appropriations.
    Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
1995 for salaries and expenses shall be available for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    No part of the appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'' and the ``Parking 
revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for 
or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    No part of the foregoing appropriations shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons except beneficiaries 
entitled under the laws bestowing such benefits to veterans, unless 
reimbursement of cost is made to the appropriation at such rates as may 
be fixed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
fiscal year 1995 for ``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment 
benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' shall be 
available for payment of prior year accrued obligations required to be 
recorded by law against the corresponding prior year accounts within 
the last quarter of fiscal year 1994.
    Appropriations accounts available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1995 shall be available to pay prior year 
obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund 
accounts they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Of the budgetary resources available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs during fiscal year 1995, $20,742,000 are permanently canceled. 
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall allocate the amount of 
budgetary resources canceled among the Department's accounts available 
for procurement and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in each such account shall 
be reduced by the amount allocated to such account. For the purposes of 
this section, the definition of ``procurement'' includes all stages of 
the process of acquiring property or services, beginning with the 
process of determining a need for a product or service and ending with 
contract completion and closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs

   homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere grants (hope 
                                grants)

    For the homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere (HOPE 
grants) program as authorized under title III of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437aaa et seq.) and subtitles A, B, and 
C of title IV of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which up to one and one-half percent may be made available for 
technical assistance to potential applicants, applicants and recipients 
of assistance under this head as authorized under subtitle E of title I 
of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,400,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


            national homeownership trust demonstration program

    For the National Homeownership Trust Demonstration program, as 
authorized by title III of the National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended by section 182 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1992, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               annual contributions for assisted housing

             (including rescission and transfers of funds)

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 1437), not otherwise provided 
for, $11,083,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That to be added to and merged with the foregoing amounts there shall 
be up to $400,000,000 of amounts of budget authority (and contract 
authority) reserved or obligated in prior years for the development or 
acquisition costs of public housing (including public housing for 
Indian families), for modernization of existing public housing projects 
(including such projects for Indian families), and, except as herein 
provided, for programs under section 8 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), 
which are recaptured during fiscal year 1995 or are unobligated as of 
September 30, 1994; and up to $100,000,000 of transfers of unobligated 
balances from the Urban Development Action Grants program: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this head, 
$282,000,000 shall be for the development or acquisition cost of public 
housing for Indian families, including amounts for housing under the 
mutual help homeownership opportunity program under section 202 of the 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1437bb); and $598,000,000 shall be for the development 
or acquisition cost of public housing, of which up to .67 per centum 
shall be available for technical assistance and inspection of public 
housing agencies by the Secretary: Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this head, $3,700,000,000 shall be for 
modernization of existing public housing projects pursuant to section 
14 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437l), including up to $15,000,000 for the 
inspection of modernization units and provision of technical assistance 
by the Secretary and contract expertise to assist in the oversight and 
management of the public and Indian housing modernization program, 
including an annual resident survey: Provided further, That of the 
amounts provided under this head for modernization of existing public 
housing projects, $25,000,000 may be used for the Tenant Opportunity 
Program: Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this 
head, $2,785,582,000 shall be for rental assistance under the section 8 
existing housing certificate program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) and the housing 
voucher program under section 8(o) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)): 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided for rental 
assistance, a total of up to $400,000,000 may be made available for new 
programs subject to enactment into law of applicable authorizing 
legislation: Provided further, That those portions of the fees for the 
costs incurred in administering incremental units assisted in the 
certificate and housing voucher programs under sections 8(b), 8(o), and 
8(e)(2) shall be established or increased in accordance with the 
authorization for such fees in section 8(q) of the Act: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this head, $17,300,000 
shall be available for fees for coordinators under section 23(h)(1) for 
the family self-sufficiency program (42 U.S.C. 1437u): Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this head, 
$735,000,000 shall be for amendments to section 8 contracts other than 
contracts for projects developed under section 202 of the Housing Act 
of 1959, as amended, and $555,000,000 shall be for section 8 assistance 
for property disposition, and $175,000,000 shall be for assistance for 
State or local units of government, tenant and nonprofit organizations 
to purchase projects where owners have indicated an intention to prepay 
mortgages and for assistance to be used as an incentive to prevent 
prepayment or for vouchers to aid eligible tenants adversely affected 
by mortgage prepayment, as authorized in the Emergency Low-Income 
Housing Preservation Act of 1987, as amended: Provided further, That 50 
per centum of the amounts of budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 
per centum of the cash amounts associated with such budget authority, 
that are recaptured from projects described in section 1012(a) of the 
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (Public 
Law 100-628, 102 Stat. 3224, 3268) shall be rescinded, or in the case 
of cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section: 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this head, 
$186,000,000 shall be for housing opportunities for persons with AIDS 
under title VIII, subtitle D of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act; $100,000,000 shall be for the lead-based paint 
hazard reduction program as authorized under sections 1011 and 1053 of 
the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 1992; and 
$30,000,000 shall be for service coordinators in public housing 
pursuant to section 9(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937; and $30,000,000 shall be for service coordinators in project-
based section 8 housing, pursuant to section 8(d)(2)(F)(1) of the Act, 
tenant-based section 8 housing, pursuant to section 8(q) of the Act 
and, for service coordinators in multifamily housing assisted under the 
National Housing Act, pursuant to section 676 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1992: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the language preceding the first proviso of this 
paragraph, $289,500,000 shall be used for special purpose grants in 
accordance with the terms and conditions specified for such grants in 
the committee of conference report and statement of the managers (H. 
Rept. 103-715) accompanying H.R. 4624, except for the grant of $500,000 
for the Earth Conservatory for the acquisition of land near Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $1,279,000,000 shall 
be for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance, 
and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, for 
supportive housing for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the 
Housing Act of 1959: Provided, That $22,000,000 shall be for service 
coordinators pursuant to section 202(q) of the Housing Act of 1959 and 
subtitle E of title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1992, other than section 676 of such Act and section 8(d)(2)(F)(i) of 
the Act.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $387,000,000 shall be 
for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as 
authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act; and for project rental assistance, and amendments to 
contracts for project rental assistance, for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.

   assistance for the renewal of expiring section 8 subsidy contracts

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437) not otherwise provided for, for use in connection with 
expiring section 8 subsidy contracts, $2,536,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That to the extent the amount in 
this appropriation is insufficient to fund all expiring section 8 
contracts, the Secretary may transfer to and merge with this 
appropriation such amounts from the ``Annual contributions for assisted 
housing'' appropriation as the Secretary shall determine, and amounts 
earmarked in the foregoing account may be reduced accordingly, at the 
Secretary's discretion: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
maintain consolidated accounting data for funds disbursed at the public 
housing agency or Indian housing authority or project level for subsidy 
assistance regardless of the source of the disbursement so as to 
minimize the administrative burden of multiple accounts.

                       rental housing assistance

                              (rescission)

    The limitation otherwise applicable to the maximum payments that 
may be required in any fiscal year by all contracts entered into under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) is reduced 
in fiscal year 1995 by not more than $2,000,000 in uncommitted balances 
of authorizations provided for this purpose in appropriations Acts: 
Provided, That up to $66,000,000 of recaptured section 236 budget 
authority resulting from the prepayment of mortgages subsidized under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) shall be 
rescinded in fiscal year 1995.

                        homeownership assistance

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For payments under section 235(r) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z) for incentives to mortgagors to refinance 
mortgages that are insured under such section 235 and for closing and 
other costs in connection with such refinancing, $6,875,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That up to $50,000,000 of 
recaptured section 235 budget authority resulting from reducing the 
interest rate on such refinanced mortgages shall be reused for payments 
under this heading: Provided further, That up to $184,000,000 of 
additional recaptured section 235 budget authority from refinancing 
section 235 mortgages shall be rescinded in fiscal year 1995.

                          congregate services

    For contracts with payments to public housing agencies and 
nonprofit corporations for congregate services programs, $25,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 1995, of which up to $6,267,000 
shall be for entities operating such programs in accordance with the 
provisions of the Congregate Services Act of 1978, as amended, and the 
balance shall be for programs under section 802 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (Public Law 101-625).

         payments for operation of low-income housing projects

    For payments to public housing agencies and Indian housing 
authorities for operating subsidies for low-income housing projects as 
authorized by section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), $2,900,000,000.

                   severely distressed public housing

    For the HOPE VI/urban revitalization demonstration program under 
the third paragraph under the head ``Homeownership and Opportunity for 
People Everywhere grants (HOPE grants)'' in the Department of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1993, Public Law 102-389, 106 Stat. 1571, 1579, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding the first proviso of such third paragraph, the 
Secretary shall have discretion to approve funding for more than 
fifteen applicants: Provided further, That notwithstanding the third 
proviso of such third paragraph, the Secretary may provide funds for 
more than 500 units for each participating city: Provided further, That 
in selecting HOPE VI implementation grants recipients in fiscal year 
1995, the Secretary must first award such grants to those cities or 
jurisdictions which have received HOPE VI planning grants in fiscal 
year 1993 or fiscal year 1994: Provided further, That the requirement 
of the immediately proceeding proviso shall not limit the Secretary's 
discretion to limit funding to amounts he deems appropriate, nor shall 
it prevent the Secretary from guaranteeing that all implementation 
grant recipients conform with the requirements of the HOPE VI/urban 
revitalization demonstration program: Provided further, That of the 
foregoing $500,000,000, the Secretary may use up to $2,500,000 for 
technical assistance under such urban revitalization demonstration, to 
be made available directly, or indirectly, under contracts or grants, 
as appropriate: Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph shall 
prohibit the Secretary from conforming the program standards and 
criteria set forth herein, with subsequent authorization legislation 
that may be enacted into law.

             drug elimination grants for low-income housing

    For grants to public housing agencies for use in eliminating drug-
related crime in public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11901-
11908, and for drug information clearinghouse services authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 11921-11925, $290,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $10,000,000 shall be for grants, technical assistance, 
contracts and other assistance training, program assessment, and 
execution for or on behalf of public housing agencies and resident 
organizations (including the cost of necessary travel for participants 
in such training).

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $3,000,000, as authorized by 
section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 
Stat. 3739): Provided, That such costs, including the costs of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part 
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $22,388,000.

                           youthbuild program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For youthbuild program activities authorized by subtitle D of title 
IV of the Crantson-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended. In addition, 
the unexpended balances from the $28,000,000 made available for 
subtitle D of title IV of such Act under the head ``Homeownership and 
opportunity for people everywhere grants (HOPE Grants)'' in the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994 shall be transferred to 
and merged with this appropriation.

                     housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, other than loans, not 
otherwise provided for, for providing counseling and advice to tenants 
and homeowners--both current and prospective--with respect to property 
maintenance, financial management, and such other matters as may be 
appropriate to assist them in improving their housing conditions and 
meeting the responsibilities of tenancy or homeownership, including 
provisions for training and for support of voluntary agencies and 
services as authorized by section 106 of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968, as amended, $50,000,000.

                         flexible subsidy fund

    For assistance to owners of eligible multifamily housing projects 
insured, or formerly insured, and under the National Housing Act, as 
amended, or which are otherwise eligible for assistance under section 
201(c) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a), in the program of assistance for troubled 
multifamily housing projects under the Housing and Community 
Development Amendments of 1978, as amended, $50,000,000, and all 
uncommitted balances of excess rental charges as of September 30, 1994, 
and any collections and other amounts in the fund authorized under 
section 201(j) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 
1978, as amended, during fiscal year 1995, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That assistance to an owner of a multifamily 
housing project assisted, but not insured, under the National Housing 
Act may be made if the project owner and the mortgagee have provided or 
agreed to provide assistance to the project in a manner as determined 
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

                     Federal Housing Administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 1995, commitments to guarantee loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed a loan principal of $100,000,000,000.
    During fiscal year 1995, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $180,000,000: Provided, That the foregoing 
amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with sales of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under section 203 of such Act.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $308,846,000, to be derived from the FHA-
mutual mortgage insurance guaranteed loans receipt account, of which 
not to exceed $302,056,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation 
for salaries and expenses; and of which not to exceed $6,790,000 shall 
be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of Inspector 
General.

             fha--general and special risk program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3(b) and 
1735c(f)), $188,395,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996, 
of which up to $132,903,000 is to be derived from the FHA--general and 
special risk, negative subsidies receipt account: Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize total loan 
principal any part of which is to be guaranteed of not to exceed 
$20,885,072,000: Provided further, That of the foregoing amount 
provided to subsidize program costs, not more than $47,098,750 may be 
obligated by January 1, 1995, not more than $94,197,500 may be 
obligated by April 1, 1995, not more than $160,135,750 may be obligated 
by July 1, 1995.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238(a), and 519(d) of the 
National Housing Act, shall not exceed $220,000,000; of which not to 
exceed $200,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with 
the sale of multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and 
formerly insured under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection 
with the sale of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary 
and formerly insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $197,470,000, of which 
$193,299,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for salaries and 
expenses; and of which $4,171,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for the Office of Inspector General.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

                      (includes transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 1995, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $142,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $8,824,000, to be derived from the 
GNMA--guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $8,824,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for salaries and expenses.

                          Homeless Assistance

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act (Public Law 100-77), as amended); the supportive housing program 
(as authorized under subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 
moderate rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized 
under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist 
homeless individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act; the shelter plus care program (as authorized 
under subtitle F of title IV of such Act); and the innovative homeless 
initiatives demonstration program (as authorized under section 2 of the 
HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-120)), $1,120,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Community Planning and Development

                      community development grants

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for carrying 
out a community development grants program as authorized by title I of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 5301), $4,600,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
1997: Provided, That $46,000,000 shall be available for grants to 
Indian tribes pursuant to section 106(a)(1) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301), and 
$44,000,000 shall be available for ``special purpose grants'' pursuant 
to section 107 of such Act: Provided further, That not to exceed 20 per 
centum of any grant made with funds appropriated herein (other than a 
grant using funds under section 107(b)(3) of such Act or funds set 
aside in the following provisos) shall be expended for ``Planning and 
Management Development'' and ``Administration'' as defined in 
regulations promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development: Provided further, That $20,000,000 shall be made available 
from the total amount provided to carry out an early childhood 
development program under section 222 of the Housing and Urban-Rural 
Recovery Act of 1983, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-6 note), including 
services for families that are homeless or at risk of becoming 
homeless: Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be made available 
from the total amount provided to carry out a neighborhood development 
program under section 123 of said Act (42 U.S.C. 5318 note).
    During fiscal year 1995, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 108 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301), shall not exceed 
$2,054,000,000.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $42,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$33,375,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That $26,000,000 shall be available to carry out activities pursuant to 
section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987.

                     Management and Administration

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative and nonadministrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided 
for, including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $955,398,000, of which $495,355,000 shall be 
provided from the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, 
and $8,824,000 shall be provided from funds of the Government National 
Mortgage Association.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $47,388,000, of which $10,961,000 shall be transferred from 
the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety 
and Soundness Act of 1992, $15,451,000, to remain available until 
expended, from the Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Fund: Provided, 
That such amounts shall be collected by the Director as authorized by 
section 1316 (a) and (b) of such Act, and deposited in the Fund under 
section 1316(f).

                       administrative provisions

    None of the funds provided under this title to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, which are obligated to State or local 
governments or to housing finance agencies or other public or quasi-
public housing agencies, shall be used to indemnify contractors or 
subcontractors of the government or agency against costs associated 
with judgments of infringement of intellectual property rights.
    Of the budgetary resources available to the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development during fiscal year 1995, $3,538,000 are 
permanently canceled. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the 
Department's accounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses. Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses in each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated 
to such account. For the purpose of this paragraph, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or service and ending with contract completion and 
closeout as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Of the $150,000,000 earmarked in Public Law 102-139 for special 
purpose grants (105 Stat. 736, 745), $1,000,000 made available to the 
Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency to complete renovation and 
revitalization of the Saquoit Silk Mills in Scranton into low-income 
elderly apartments shall instead be made available for such low-income 
elderly apartments on the site of the existing Lackawanna Junior 
College in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law or regulation thereunder, the 
requirement that an amendment to an urban development action grant 
agreement must be integrally related to the approved project is hereby 
waived for project numbers B87AA360540 and B87AA360521.
    None of the funds made available in this Act may be used in 
violation of section 214 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1980 or of any applicable Federal law or regulation of the United 
States.
    Subparagraph (A) of the first sentence of section 203(b)(2) of the 
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b)(2)) is amended by striking 
clause (ii) and all that follows through ``May 12, 1992;'' and 
inserting the following:
                ``(ii) 75 percent of the dollar amount limitation 
            determined under section 305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan 
            Mortgage Corporation Act for a residence of the applicable 
            size;
        except that the applicable dollar amount limitation in effect 
        for any area under this subparagraph may not be less than the 
        greater of the dollar amount limitation in effect under this 
        section for the area on the date of enactment of the Housing 
        Choice and Community Investment Act of 1994 or 38 percent of 
        the dollar amount limitation determined under section 305(a)(2) 
        of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act for a 
        residence of the applicable size;''.
    Notwithstanding subsection 306(g)(3) of the National Housing Act, 
as amended, fees charged for the guaranty of, or commitment to 
guaranty, multiclass securities backed by a trust or pool of securities 
or notes guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association 
prior to February 1, 1993, and other related fees, shall be charged in 
an amount the Association deems appropriate.
    Beginning fiscal year 1995, the Government National Mortgage 
Association shall permit Ginnie Mae II mortgage-backed securities to be 
eligible as collateral for multiclass securities that such Association 
guarantees, in accordance with the Notice published at 59 Fed. Reg. 
27290 (May 26, 1994) and successor Notices.
    Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
amended by inserting at the end the following: ``However, where the 
maximum monthly rent, for a unit in a new construction, substantial 
rehabilitation, or moderate rehabilitation project, to be adjusted 
using an annual adjustment factor exceeds the fair market rental for an 
existing dwelling unit in the market area, the Secretary shall adjust 
the rent only to the extent that the owner demonstrates that the 
adjusted rent would not exceed the rent for an unassisted unit of 
similar quality, type, and age in the same market area, as determined 
by the Secretary. The immediately foregoing sentence shall be effective 
only during fiscal year 1995.''.
    The immediately foregoing amendment shall apply to all contracts 
for new construction, substantial rehabilitation, and moderate 
rehabilitation projects under which rents are adjusted under section 
8(c)(2)(A) of such Act by applying an annual adjustment factor.
    Section 8(c)(2)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended by the immediately foregoing amendment to such section, is 
further amended by inserting at the end the following: ``For any unit 
occupied by the same family at the time of the last annual rental 
adjustment, where the assistance contract provides for the adjustment 
of the maximum monthly rent by applying an annual adjustment factor and 
where the rent for a unit is otherwise eligible for an adjustment based 
on the full amount of the factor, 0.01 shall be subtracted from the 
amount of the factor, except that the factor shall not be reduced to 
less than 1.0. The immediately foregoing sentence shall be effective 
only during fiscal year 1995.''.
    The immediately foregoing shall hereafter apply to all contracts 
that are subject to section 8(c)(2)(A) of such Act and that provide for 
rent adjustments using an annual adjustment factor.
    The United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended in each of 
sections 6(c)(4)(A)(ii) and 8(d)(1)(A)(ii), by striking ``and (V)'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``(V) assisting families that 
include one or more adult members who are employed; and (VI)''; and in 
sections 6(c)(4)(A)(ii) and 8(d)(1)(A)(ii), by inserting after the 
final semicolon in each the following: ``subclause (V) shall be 
effective only during fiscal year 1995;''.
    Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437f) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(aa) Refinancing Incentive.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may pay all or a part of the 
    up front costs of refinancing for each project that--
            ``(A) is constructed, substantially rehabilitated, or 
        moderately rehabilitated under this section;
            ``(B) is subject to an assistance contract under this 
        section; and
            ``(C) was subject to a mortgage that has been refinanced 
        under section 223(a)(7) or section 223(f) of the National 
        Housing Act to lower the periodic debt service payments of the 
        owner.
        ``(2) Share from reduced assistance payments.--The Secretary 
    may pay the up front cost of refinancing only--
            ``(A) to the extent that funds accrue to the Secretary from 
        the reduced assistance payments that results from the 
        refinancing; and
            ``(B) after the application of amounts in accordance with 
        section 1012 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
        Amendments Act of 1988.''.
    Section 223(a)(7) of the National Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 
1751n(a)(7)) is amended in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
end; and by inserting, before ``: Provided further'' in said paragraph, 
the following: ``; and (D) any multifamily mortgage that is refinanced 
under this paragraph shall be documented through amendments to the 
existing insurance contract and shall not be structured through the 
provisions of a new insurance contract''.
    The amendments of the two immediately preceding paragraphs shall be 
effective only during fiscal year 1995.
    Section 601 of title VI of S. 2281 (103d Cong., 2d Sess), as 
reported to the Senate on July 13 (legislative day, July 11), 1994 (S. 
Rep. 103-307), is hereby incorporated into this Act, and such section 
601 is deemed enacted into law upon enactment of this Act: Provided, 
That the provisions of such section 601 shall be effective only during 
fiscal year 1995.
    Title VIII of S. 2281 (103d Cong., 2d Sess), as reported to the 
Senate on July 13 (legislative day, July 11), 1994 (S. Rep. 103-307), 
is hereby incorporated into this Act, and such title VIII is deemed 
enacted into law upon enactment of this Act.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the New York City 
Housing Authority is authorized to use not more than $12,420,000, from 
development reservation number NY36P005324 for 100 public housing units 
previous awarded from funds appropriated under Public Law 101-507 (Nov. 
5, 1990), for the purpose of completing a homeownership program 
involving not more than 463 dwelling units located in Bronx County, in 
the City of New York, in accordance with a certain submission dated 
November 16, 1993 made in response to a Notice of Funding Availability 
issued at 58 Fed. Reg. 41127. The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall thereafter add a similar number of existing non-
Federal public housing units, designated by the Authority, to the 
agency's inventory of federally-assisted public housing developments 
and said units shall, for all purposes other than the repayment of any 
debt associated with their development or rehabilitation, be considered 
as if initially developed under title I of the Housing Act of 1937.

                               TITLE III

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries; 
$20,265,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That where 
station allowance has been authorized by the Department of the Army for 
officers of the Army serving the Army at certain foreign stations, the 
same allowance shall be authorized for officers of the Armed Forces 
assigned to the Commission while serving at the same foreign stations, 
and this appropriation is hereby made available for the payment of such 
allowance: Provided further, That when traveling on business of the 
Commission, officers of the Armed Forces serving as members or as 
Secretary of the Commission may be reimbursed for expenses as provided 
for civilian members of the Commission: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall reimburse other Government agencies, including the 
Armed Forces, for salary, pay, and allowances of personnel assigned to 
it: Provided further, That section 509 of the general provisions 
carried in title V of this Act shall not apply to the funds provided 
under this heading: Provided further, That not more than $125,000 of 
the private contributions to the Korean War Memorial Fund may be used 
for administrative support of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Advisory 
Board including travel by members of the board authorized by the 
Commission, travel allowances to conform to those provided by Federal 
travel regulations.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board


                          salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $1,730,000 are rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act.
    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $500,000.

              Community Development Financial Institutions


            community development financial institutions fund

                             program account

    For grants, loans, and technical assistance to qualifying community 
development lenders, and administrative expenses of the Fund, 
$125,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, up to $10,000,000 
may be used for the cost of direct loans, and up to $1,000,000 may be 
used for administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program: 
Provided further, That the cost of direct loans, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be defined as in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount 
of direct loans not to exceed $75,815,000: Provided further, That not 
more than $39,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
may be used for programs and activities authorized in section 114 of 
the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 
1994.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18, purchase of nominal awards to 
recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to Commission 
activities, and not to exceed $500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $42,509,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

       national and community service programs operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service in carrying out the programs, activities, and 
initiatives under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as 
amended (Public Law 103-82) (hereinafter referred to as ``the Act''), 
$575,000,000, of which $386,212,000 is available for obligation for the 
period September 1, 1995 through August 31, 1996: Provided, That not 
more than $29,400,000 is available for administrative expenses 
authorized under section 501(a)(4) of the Act, of which not more than 
$14,700,000 shall be for administrative expenses for State commissions 
pursuant to section 126(a) of subtitle C of title I of the Act: 
Provided further, That not more than $2,500 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That not more 
than $145,900,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation, 
shall be transferred to the National Service Trust Fund for educational 
awards as authorized under subtitle D of title I of the Act: Provided 
further, That not more than $14,175,000 of the $145,900,000 for the 
National Service Trust shall be for educational awards authorized under 
section 129(b) of the subtitle C of title I of the Act: Provided 
further, That $6,500,000 shall be made available for the Points of 
Light Foundation for purposes authorized under title III of the Act: 
Provided further, That no funds from any other appropriation, or from 
funds otherwise made available to the Corporation, shall be used to pay 
for personnel compensation and benefits, travel, or any other 
administrative expense for the Board of Directors, the Office of the 
Chief Executive Officer, the Office of the Managing Director, the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, the Office of National and 
Community Service Programs, the National Civilian Community Corps, or 
any portion of any of the Corporation's field offices or staff working 
on National and Community Service or National Civilian Community Corps 
programs.


                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $2,000,000.

                       Court of Veterans Appeals

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. sections 7251-7292, 
$9,429,000, to be available without regard to section 509 of this Act, 
of which not to exceed $790,000, to remain available until September 
30, 1996, shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth, under this head in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase of two 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; $12,017,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Environmental Protection Agency


                         research and development

    For research and development activities, including procurement of 
laboratory equipment and supplies; other operating expenses in support 
of research and development; and construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; $350,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: 
Provided, That not more than $55,000,000 of these funds shall be 
available for procurement of laboratory equipment, supplies, and other 
operating expenses in support of research and development.


                    abatement, control, and compliance

    For abatement, control, and compliance activities, including hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of 
aircraft; purchase of reprints; library memberships in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members; construction, 
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not 
to exceed $75,000 per project; and not to exceed $6,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $1,417,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That not more than 
$304,722,500 of these funds shall be available for operating expenses: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this head 
shall be available to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration pursuant to section 118(h)(3) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, as amended: Provided further, That from funds 
appropriated under this heading, the Administrator may make grants to 
federally recognized Indian governments for the development of 
multimedia environmental programs.


                     program and research operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel 
and related costs and for travel expenses, including uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; 
$922,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$28,542,000.

                        buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $43,870,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     hazardous substance superfund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111 (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; 
$1,435,000,000 to remain available until expended, consisting of 
$1,185,000,000 as authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended by Public 
Law 101-508, and $250,000,000 as a payment from general revenues to the 
Hazardous Substance Superfund as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA, 
as amended by Public Law 101-508, plus sums recovered on behalf of the 
Hazardous Substance Superfund in excess of $229,391,000 during fiscal 
year 1995: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with section 111(a) 
of CERCLA: Provided further, That $15,384,000 of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be transferred to the Office of Inspector 
General appropriation to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 111(m) of CERCLA or any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $69,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available to the Agency for 
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to carry out activities described 
in sections 104(i), 111(c)(4), and 111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 
118(f) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry to issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles 
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 1995: Provided 
further, That no more than $308,000,000 of these funds shall be 
available for administrative expenses of the Environmental Protection 
Agency: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be made available for program management of Alternative 
Remedial Contracting Strategy (ARCS) contracts exceeding 11 percent of 
the total cost of such contract.

              leaking underground storage tank trust fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, 
alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not 
to exceed $75,000 per project, $70,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no more than $8,150,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That $669,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be transferred to the Office of 
Inspector General appropriation to remain available until September 30, 
1995.

                           oil spill response


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$20,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not more than 
$8,420,000 of these funds shall be available for administrative 
expenses.


                Water Infrastructure/State Revolving Fund

    For necessary expenses for capitalization grants for State 
revolving funds to support water infrastructure financing, and to carry 
out the purposes of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as 
amended, and the Water Quality Act of 1987, $2,962,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $22,500,000 shall be for making 
grants under section 104(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended; $100,000,000 shall be for making grants under section 
319 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, and shall 
be available only upon enactment of clean water authorizing 
legislation, but if no such legislation is enacted by November 1, 1994, 
these funds shall immediately be available; $52,500,000 shall be for 
section 510 of the Water Quality Act of 1987; $70,000,000 shall be for 
making grants under section 1443(a) of the Public Health Service Act; 
and, notwithstanding any other provision of law, $781,800,000 shall be 
available upon enactment of clean water authorizing legislation, but if 
no such legislation is enacted by November 1, 1994, the funds shall 
then be available for making grants for the construction of wastewater 
treatment facilities in accordance with the terms and conditions 
specified for such grants in House Report 103-715: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $500,000,000 made available 
under this heading in Public Law 103-124, and earmarked to not become 
available until May 31, 1994, which date was extended to September 30, 
1994, in Public Law 103-211, shall be available upon enactment of clean 
water authorizing legislation, but if no such legislation is enacted by 
September 30, 1994, these funds shall then be available for making 
grants for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities in 
accordance with the terms and conditions specified for such grants in 
House Report 103-715: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $1,235,200,000 shall be available upon enactment of 
clean water state revolving fund authorizing legislation, but if no 
such legislation is enacted by November 1, 1994, these funds shall 
immediately be available for making capitalization grants under title 
VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended: Provided 
further, That the grant awarded from funds appropriated under the 
paragraph with the heading ``Construction grants'' in title III of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 (103 Stat. 858), for 
construction of wastewater treatment facilities for the towns of Ware 
Shoals and Honea Path, South Carolina, and would include, but would not 
be limited to, the construction of a connector sewer line, consisting 
of a main trunk line and four pump stations for the town of Honea Path, 
South Carolina, to the wastewater treatment facility in the town of 
Ware Shoals, South Carolina, the upgrade and expansion of the Ware 
Shoals wastewater treatment plant, and the demolition of the Chiquala 
Mill Lagoon, the Clatworthy Lagoon, the Corner Creek Lagoon, and the 
Still Branch Lagoon.

                       administrative provisions

    Of the budgetary resources available to the Environmental 
Protection Agency during fiscal year 1995, $7,525,000 are permanently 
canceled. The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
shall allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the 
agency's accounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses. Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses in each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated 
to such account. For the purposes of this paragraph, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or service and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    None of the funds provided in this Act may be used within the 
Environmental Protection Agency for any final action by the 
Administrator or her delegate for signing and publishing for 
promulgation of a rule concerning any new standard for radon in 
drinking water.
    None of the funds provided in this Act may be used during fiscal 
year 1995 to sign, promulgate, implement or enforce the requirement 
proposed as ``Regulation of Fuels and Fuel Additives: Individual 
Foreign Refinery Baseline Requirements for Reformulated Gasoline'' at 
volume 59 of the Federal Register at pages 22800 through 22814.

                   Executive Office of the President

                office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $4,981,000: Provided, That the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy shall reimburse other agencies for not 
less than one-half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals 
detailed to it.

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, $997,000.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                            disaster relief

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the functions of the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5121 et seq.), $320,000,000, to remain available until expended.

            disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,418,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount 
of direct loans not to exceed $175,000,000 under section 319 of the 
Stafford Act: Provided further, That any unused portion of the direct 
loan limitation and subsidy shall be available until expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $95,000.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343); uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; expenses of 
attendance of cooperating officials and individuals at meetings 
concerned with the work of emergency preparedness; transportation in 
connection with the continuity of Government programs to the same 
extent and in the same manner as permitted the Secretary of a Military 
Department under 10 U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $162,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $4,400,000.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2251 et seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 
U.S.C. App. 2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and 
Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978, $215,960,000.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    There is hereby appropriated $130,000,000 to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency to carry out an emergency food and shelter program 
pursuant to title III of Public Law 100-77, as amended: Provided, That 
total administrative costs shall not exceed three and one-half per 
centum of the total appropriation.

                     national flood insurance fund

                          (transfers of funds)

    Of the funds available from the National Flood Insurance Fund for 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, $14,913,000 shall be transferred 
as needed to the ``Salaries and expenses'' appropriation for 
administrative costs of the insurance and flood plain management 
programs and $49,229,000 shall be transferred as needed to the 
``Emergency management planning and assistance'' appropriation for 
flood plain management activities, including $4,720,000 for expenses 
under section 1362 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 4103, 4127), which amount shall be available until 
September 30, 1996. In fiscal year 1995, no funds in excess of (1) 
$32,000,000 for operating expenses, (2) $253,641,000 for agents' 
commissions and taxes, and (3) $12,000,000 for interest on Treasury 
borrowings shall be available from the National Flood Insurance Fund 
without prior notice to the Committees on Appropriations.

                       administrative provisions

    The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
promulgate through rulemaking a methodology for assessment and 
collection of fees to be assessed and collected in fiscal year 1995 
applicable to persons subject to the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency's radiological emergency preparedness regulations. The aggregate 
charges assessed pursuant to this section during fiscal year 1995 shall 
approximate, but not be less than, 100 per centum of the amounts 
anticipated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to be obligated 
for its radiological emergency preparedness program for such fiscal 
year. The methodology for assessment and collection of fees shall be 
fair and equitable, and shall reflect the full amount of costs of 
providing radiological emergency planning, preparedness, response and 
associated services. Such fees will be assessed in a manner that 
reflects the use of agency resources for classes of regulated persons 
and the administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received 
pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury as offsetting receipts. Assessment and collection of such fees 
are only authorized during fiscal year 1995.
    Of the budgetary resources available to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency during fiscal year 1995, $1,441,000 are permanently 
canceled. The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the Agency's 
accounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses. 
Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated to such 
account. For the purposes of this paragraph, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or service and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                    General Services Administration

                      consumer information center

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,008,000, to be 
deposited into the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the 
appropriations, revenues and collections deposited into the fund shall 
be available for necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center 
activities in the aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Administrative 
expenses of the Consumer Information Center in fiscal year 1995 shall 
not exceed $2,454,000. Appropriations, revenues, and collections 
accruing to this fund during fiscal year 1995 in excess of $7,500,000 
shall remain in the fund and shall not be available for expenditure 
except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                Department of Health and Human Services

                       office of consumer affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Consumer Affairs, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,166,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, that Office may solicit, 
accept and deposit to this account, during fiscal year 1995, gifts for 
the purpose of defraying its costs of printing, publishing, and 
distributing consumer information and educational materials; may expend 
up to $1,100,000 of those gifts for those purposes, in addition to 
amounts otherwise appropriated; and the balance shall remain available 
for expenditure for such purposes to the extent authorized in 
subsequent appropriations Acts: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading may be made available for any other 
activities within the Department of Health and Human Services.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of human space flight research and development activities, 
including research; development; operations; services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including repair, rehabilitation, and 
modification of real and personal property, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, 
and operation of mission and administrative aircraft; $5,573,900,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 1996.

                  science, aeronautics and technology


                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, and technology research and 
development activities, including research; development; operations; 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities including repair, 
rehabilitation and modification of real and personal property, and 
acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities 
including operations, production, and services; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft; $5,901,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996.
    Of the amounts provided under the heading, ``construction of 
facilities'', for the Consortium for International Earth Science 
Information Network in Public Law 102-389, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                    national aeronautical facilities


                          (including rescission)

    For construction of new national wind tunnel facilities, including 
final design, modification of existing facilities, necessary equipment, 
and for acquisition or condemnation of real property as authorized by 
law, for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
$400,000,000, to remain available until March 31, 1997: Provided, That 
the funds made available under this heading shall be rescinded on July 
15, 1995, unless the President requests at least $400,000,000 in the 
fiscal year 1996 budget request for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration for continuation of this wind tunnel initiative.

                            mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for human space flight programs and science, 
aeronautical, and technology programs, including research operations 
and support; space communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of facilities, minor 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, environmental compliance and restoration, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
program management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $35,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 
thirty-three for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $2,554,587,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: 
Provided, That of the amounts made available under the heading 
``Research and program management'' in Public Law 103-211, $18,000,000 
are rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act: Provided further, 
That an additional $18,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
1995, shall be immediately available for research and program 
management activities, contingent upon the enactment of the rescission 
in the preceding proviso before October 1, 1994.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $16,000,000.


                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Of the budgetary resources available to the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration during fiscal year 1995, $59,003,000 are 
permanently canceled. The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration shall allocate the amount of budgetary resources 
canceled among the agency's accounts available for procurement and 
procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for procurement and 
procurement-related expenses in each such account shall be reduced by 
the amount allocated to such account. For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the definition of ``procurement'' includes all stages of the 
process of acquiring property or services, beginning with the process 
of determining a need for a product or service and ending with contract 
completion and closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities as authorized by law, the amount available 
for such activity shall remain available until expended. This provision 
does not apply to the amounts appropriated in ``Mission support'' 
pursuant to the authorization for repair, rehabilitation and 
modification of facilities, minor construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 1997.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'', amounts made available by this 
Act for personnel and related costs and travel expenses of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration shall remain available until 
September 30, 1995 and may be used to enter into contracts for 
training, investigations, cost associated with personnel relocation, 
and for other services, to be provided during the next fiscal year.
    No amount appropriated pursuant to this or any other Act may be 
used for the lease or construction of a new contractor-funded facility 
for exclusive use in support of a contract or contracts with the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration under which the 
Administration would be required to substantially amortize through 
payment or reimbursement such contractor investment, unless an 
appropriations Act specifies the lease or contract pursuant to which 
such facilities are to be constructed or leased or such facility is 
otherwise identified in such Act. The Administrator may authorize such 
facility lease or construction, if he determines, in consultation with 
the Committees on Appropriations, that deferral of such action until 
the enactment of the next appropriations Act would be inconsistent with 
the interest of the Nation in aeronautical and space activities.
    The unexpired balances of prior appropriations to NASA for 
activities for which funds are provided under this Act may be 
transferred to the new account established for the appropriation that 
provides funds for such activity under this Act. Balances so 
transferred may be merged with funds in the newly established account 
and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund to be available for the 
same purposes and under the same terms and conditions.
    The fourth proviso in the paragraph under the heading ``Science, 
space, and technology education trust fund'' in the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development--Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1989 (Public Law 101-404, 102 Stat. 1014, 1028) is amended by striking 
out ``for a ten-year period'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``hereafter''.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall convey, without 
reimbursement, to the City of Slidell, Louisiana, all rights, title, 
and interest of the United States in the property, including all 
improvements thereon, known as the Slidell Computer Complex, and 
consisting of approximately 14 acres in the City of Slidell, St. 
Tammany Parish, Louisiana: Provided, That appropriated funds may be 
used to effect this conveyance: Provided further, That in consideration 
of this conveyance, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
may require such other terms and conditions as the Administrator deems 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

    During fiscal year 1995, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions as authorized by the National Credit Union Central Liquidity 
Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795) shall not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, 
That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity Facility in 
fiscal year 1995 shall not exceed $901,000.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities


               (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the purposes of the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and 
the Act to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of 
aircraft and purchase of flight services for research support; 
acquisition of aircraft; $2,280,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$225,430,000 shall remain available until expended for Polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program; the balance to 
remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That receipts for 
scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the amount appropriated is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That amounts 
appropriated in prior fiscal years for the United States Polar Research 
Programs, the United States Antarctic Logistical Support Activities, 
and the Critical Technologies Institute shall be transferred to and 
merged with this appropriation and remain available until expended.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $35,000,000 are rescinded.

                        major research equipment

    For necessary expenses in carrying out major construction and 
procurement projects pursuant to the purposes of the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, $126,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


                     academic research infrastructure

    For necessary expenses in carrying out an academic research 
infrastructure program pursuant to the purposes of the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1996: Provided, That $131,867,000 of the funds under this 
heading are available for obligation for the period September 1, 1995 
through August 31, 1996: Provided further, That the funds made 
available in the preceding proviso shall be rescinded on July 15, 1995, 
unless the President requests at least $250,000,000 in the fiscal year 
1996 budget request for the National Science Foundation for academic 
research infrastructure activities.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
purposes of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1861-1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 
and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$605,974,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That to the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in 
the authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary salaries and expenses in carrying out the purposes of 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1861-1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia; reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services; $123,966,000: Provided, That contracts may be 
entered into under salaries and expenses in fiscal year 1995 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $4,380,000.

          national science foundation headquarters relocation

    For necessary support of the relocation of the National Science 
Foundation, $5,200,000: Provided, That these funds shall be used to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for services and related 
acquisitions in support of relocating the National Science Foundation.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $38,667,000.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 4101-4118) for civilian employees; and not to exceed 
$1,000 for official reception and representation expenses; $22,930,000: 
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he 
deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into 
the Armed Forces of the United States.

                                TITLE IV

                              CORPORATIONS

    Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development which are subject to the Government Corporation Control 
Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, 
within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each 
such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 1995 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                         fslic resolution fund

    For payment of expenditures of the FSLIC Resolution Fund, for which 
other funds available to the FSLIC Resolution Fund as authorized by 
Public Law 101-73 are insufficient, $827,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    fdic affordable housing program

    For the affordable housing program of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation under section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
U.S.C. 1831q), $15,000,000 to pay for any losses resulting from the 
sale of properties under the program, and for all administrative and 
holding costs associated with operating the program.
    Notwithstanding any provisions of section 40 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act or any other provision of law, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation shall be deemed in compliance with such section 
if, in its sole discretion, the Corporation at any time modifies, 
amends or waives any provisions of such section in order to maximize 
the efficient use of the available appropriated funds. The Corporation 
shall not be subject to suit for its failure to comply with the 
requirements of this provision or section 40 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act.

                      Resolution Trust Corporation

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $32,000,000.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Section 501. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this 
Act are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has 
been placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not 
exceed the amounts set forth therefor in the budget estimates submitted 
for the appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
travel performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal 
boards of the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with 
major disasters or emergencies declared or determined by the President 
under the provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of 
Inspector General in connection with audits and investigations; or to 
payments to interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the 
budget schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, 
II, and III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially 
submitted for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may 
correspondingly exceed the amounts therefor set forth in the estimates 
in the same proportion.
    Sec. 502. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 503. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Resolution Trust Corporation, 
Federal Reserve banks or any member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, 
and any insured bank within the meaning of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).
    Sec. 504. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 505. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
        (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee of 
    the United States unless--
            (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is part of, a 
        voucher or abstract which describes the payee or payees and the 
        items or services for which such expenditure is being made, or
            (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
        certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, is 
        specifically authorized by law; and
        (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the General 
    Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from such audit.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between his domicile and his 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under title 31, United States Code, 
section 1344.
    Sec. 507. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share 
in the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest 
of the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 508. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used, 
directly or through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for 
payment of the salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal 
Government or a grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate 
paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically 
authorized by law.
    Sec. 509. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act for 
personnel compensation and benefits shall be available for other object 
classifications set forth in the budget estimates submitted for the 
appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to any part 
of the appropriations contained in this Act for Offices of Inspector 
General personnel compensation and benefits.
    Sec. 510. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pay the 
expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening 
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein affects the 
authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 
7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 et seq.).
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise provided under existing law or under 
an existing Executive order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts 
which are (1) a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of 
all contracts entered into within twenty-four months prior to the date 
on which the list is made available to the public and of all contracts 
on which performance has not been completed by such date. The list 
required by the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall 
include a narrative description of the work to be performed under each 
such contract.
    Sec. 512. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) for a contract for 
services unless such executive agency (1) has awarded and entered into 
such contract in full compliance with such Act and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, and (2) requires any report prepared pursuant 
to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, analyses and 
manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is substantially 
derived from or substantially includes any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, to contain information concerning (A) the contract 
pursuant to which the report was prepared, and (B) the contractor who 
prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 513. Except as otherwise provided in section 506, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles 
per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 515. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1995 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on 
which the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 517. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 518. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.

                                TITLE VI

                 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', as 
authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1974, for emergency expenses resulting from the January 1994 
earthquake in Southern California, $225,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 1996, of which $50,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from funds provided under the head ``Department of Education, 
Impact aid'' in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-211): Provided, That of the foregoing amount, 
$200,000,000 and $25,000,000 shall be for the cities of Los Angeles and 
Santa Monica, California, respectively: Provided further, That in 
administering these funds, the Secretary may waive, or specify 
alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or any use by the recipient of these funds, 
except for statutory requirements relating to fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the obligation and use of 
such funds, and would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of 
the statute or regulation: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', for 
grants to States and units of general local government and for related 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for carrying out a 
community development program as authorized by title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974, to be used to assist States, 
local communities, and businesses in recovering from the flooding and 
damage caused by Tropical Storm Alberto and other disasters, 
$180,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive any provision of 
law (except for provisions relating to fair housing, the environment, 
or labor standards) if the Secretary determines such waiver is 
necessary to facilitate the obligation of the entire amount: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may 
transfer up to $50,000,000 to the HOME investment partnerships program, 
as authorized under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, to be used for purposes related to flooding and 
damage caused by Tropical Storm Alberto and other disasters: Provided 
further, That the entire amount, including transfers, is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the entire amount, including 
transfers, shall be available only to the extent of an official budget 
request, for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement, as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, is 
transmitted to the Congress.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency


             disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster assistance direct loan 
program account'' for the cost of direct loans, $12,500,000, as 
authorized by section 417 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act to be used to assist local governments in 
recovering from flooding and damage caused by Tropical Storm Alberto 
and other disasters: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount 
of direct loans not to exceed $50,000,000 under section 417 of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act: 
Provided further, That any unused portion of the direct loan limitation 
and subsidy shall be available until expended: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent of an official 
budget request, for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement, as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, is transmitted to the Congress.

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Highway Administration


                           federal-aid highways

                         emergency relief program

                           (highway trust fund)

    The matter under the heading in the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-211) is amended by deleting 
``$950,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$775,000,000''.
    This Act may be cited as the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1995.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.