[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2330 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2330
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1994 for the intelligence 
and intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the 
Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House or Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1994''.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1994 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
        (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
        (2) The Department of Defense.
        (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (4) The National Security Agency.
        (5) The National Reconnaissance Office.
        (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and 
    the Department of the Air Force.
        (7) The Department of State.
        (8) The Department of the Treasury.
        (9) The Department of Energy.
        (10) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (11) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
        (12) The Central Imagery Office.

SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Ceilings.--The amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under section 101, and the authorized 
personnel ceilings as of September 30, 1994, for the conduct of the 
intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the elements listed 
in such section, are those specified in the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations prepared to accompany the conference report on the bill 
H.R. 2330 of the One Hundred Third Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--The 
Schedule of Authorizations shall be made available to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives and to the 
President. The President shall provide for suitable distribution of the 
Schedule, or of appropriate portions of the Schedule, within the 
executive branch.

SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Authority for Adjustments.--The Director of Central Intelligence 
may authorize employment for civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 1994 under section 102 of this Act when the 
Director determines that such action is necessary to the performance of 
important intelligence functions, except that such number may not, for 
any element of the intelligence community, exceed 2 percent of the 
number of civilian personnel authorized under such section for such 
element.
    (b) Notice to Intelligence Committees.--The Director of Central 
Intelligence shall promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate whenever the Director exercises the authority 
granted by this section.

SEC. 104. COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Community Management Account of the Director of 
Central Intelligence for fiscal year 1994 the sum of $113,800,000. 
Within such amounts authorized, funds identified in the classified 
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) for the 
Advanced Research and Development Committee and the Environmental Task 
Force shall remain available until September 30, 1995.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The Community Management Account 
of the Director of Central Intelligence is authorized 222 full-time 
personnel as of September 30, 1994. Such personnel of the Community 
Management Account may be permanent employees of the Community 
Management Account or personnel detailed from other elements of the 
United States Government.
    (c) Reimbursement.--During fiscal year 1994, any officer or employee 
of the United States or a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to 
the Community Management Staff from another element of the United States 
Government shall be detailed on a reimbursable basis, except that any 
such officer, employee or member may be detailed on a nonreimbursable 
basis for a period of less than one year for the performance of 
temporary functions as required by the Director of Central Intelligence.

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 1994 the sum of 
$182,300,000.

SEC. 202. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act is 
amended--
        (1) in section 101(7) (50 U.S.C. 2001(7))--
            (A) by striking the comma after ``basic pay'' and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``and''; and
            (B) by striking ``, and interest determined under section 
        281'';
        (2) in section 201(c) (50 U.S.C. 2011(c)), by striking ``the 
    proviso of section 102(d)(3) of the National Security Act of 1947 
    (50 U.S.C. 403(d)(3))'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 
    103(c)(5) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-
    3(c)(5))'';
        (3) in section 211(c)(2)(B) (50 U.S.C. 2021(c)(2)(B)), by 
    striking ``the requirement under section 241(b)(4)'' and inserting 
    in lieu thereof ``prior notification of a current spouse, if any, 
    unless the participant establishes to the satisfaction of the 
    Director, in accordance with regulations which the Director may 
    prescribe, that the participant does not know, and has taken all 
    reasonable steps to determine, the whereabouts of the current 
    spouse'';
        (4) in section 221 (50 U.S.C. 2031)--
            (A) by striking ``(or, in the case of an annuity computed 
        under section 232 and based on less than 3 years, over the total 
        service)'' in subsection (a)(4);
            (B) in subsection (f)(1)(A)--
                (i) by inserting ``after the participant's death'' 
            before the period in the first sentence; and
                (ii) by striking ``after the participant's death'' in 
            the second sentence;
            (C) by striking ``(or is remarried'' in subsection (g)(1) 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``(or is remarried,''; and
            (D) by striking ``(except as provided in paragraph (2))'' in 
        subsection (j);
        (5) in section 222 (50 U.S.C. 2032)--
            (A) by striking ``other'' the first place it appears in 
        subsection (a)(7) and inserting in lieu thereof ``survivor'';
            (B) by inserting ``the participant'' before ``or does not 
        qualify'' in subsection (c)(3)(C); and
            (C) by inserting ``spouse's or the'' after ``month before 
        the'' in subsection (c)(4);
        (6) in section 224(c)(1)(B)(i) (50 U.S.C. 2034(c)(1)(B)(i)), by 
    striking ``former participant'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
    ``retired participant'';
        (7) in section 225(c) (50 U.S.C. 2035(c))--
            (A) by striking ``other'' the first place it appears in 
        paragraph (3) and inserting in lieu thereof ``survivor''; and
            (B) by striking ``1991'' in paragraph (4)(A) and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``1990'';
        (8) in section 231(d)(2) (50 U.S.C. 2051(d)(2)), by striking 
    ``241(b)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``241(a)'';
        (9) in section 232(b)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(4)), by striking 
    ``section 222'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 224'';
        (10) in section 234(b) (50 U.S.C. 2054(b)), by striking 
    ``sections 241 and 281'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 
    241'';
        (11) in section 241 (50 U.S.C. 2071)--
            (A) by striking ``A lump-sum benefit that would have been 
        payable to a participant, former participant, or annuitant, or 
        to a survivor annuitant, authorized by subsection (d) or (e) of 
        this section or by section 234(b) or 281(d)'' in subsection (c) 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``A lump-sum payment authorized by 
        subsection (d) or (e) of this section 281(d) and a payment of 
        any accrued and unpaid annuity authorized by subsection (f) of 
        this section''; and
            (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g) and 
        inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Payment of Accrued and Unpaid Annuity When Retired Participant 
Dies.--If a retired participant dies, any annuity accrued and unpaid 
shall be paid in accordance with subsection (c).'';
        (12) in section 264(b) (50 U.S.C. 2094)--
            (A) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (2);
            (B) by striking ``and to any payment of a return of 
        contributions under section 234(a); and'' in paragraph (3) and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``, and the amount of any such 
        payment;''; and
            (C) by striking paragraph (4);
        (13) in section 265 (50 U.S.C. 2095), by striking ``Act'' in 
    both places it appears and inserting in lieu thereof ``title'';
        (14) in section 291(b)(2) (50 U.S.C. 2131(b)(2)), by striking 
    ``or section 232(c)''; and
        (15) in section 304(i)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2154(i)(1)), by striking 
    ``section 102(a)(3)'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 
    102(a)(4)''.
    (b) Retroactive Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection 
(a) shall take effect as of February 1, 1993.
    SEC. 203. SURVIVOR ANNUITY, RETIREMENT ANNUITY, AND HEALTH BENEFITS 
      FOR CERTAIN EX-SPOUSES OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Survivor Annuity.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Entitlement of former wife or husband.--Any person who 
        was divorced on or before December 4, 1991, from a participant 
        or retired participant in the Central Intelligence Agency 
        Retirement and Disability System and who was married to such 
        participant for not less than 10 years during such participant's 
        creditable service, at least five years of which were spent by 
        the participant during the participant's service as an employee 
        of the Central Intelligence Agency outside the United States, or 
        otherwise in a position the duties of which qualified the 
        participant for designation by the Director of Central 
        Intelligence as a participant under section 203 of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2013), shall be 
        entitled, except to the extent such person is disqualified under 
        paragraph (2), to a survivor annuity equal to 55 percent of the 
        greater of--
                (i) the unreduced amount of the participant's annuity, 
            as computed under section 221(a) of such Act; or
                (ii) the unreduced amount of what such annuity as so 
            computed would be if the participant had not elected payment 
            of the lump-sum credit under section 294 of such Act.
            (B) Reduction in survivor annuity.--A survivor annuity 
        payable under this subsection shall be reduced by an amount 
        equal to any survivor annuity payments made to the former wife 
        or husband under section 226 of such Act.
        (2) Limitations.--A former wife or husband is not entitled to a 
    survivor annuity under this subsection if--
            (A) the former wife or husband remarries before age 55, 
        except that the entitlement of the former wife or husband to 
        such a survivor annuity shall be restored on the date such 
        remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce;
            (B) the former wife or husband is less than 50 years of age; 
        or
            (C) the former wife or husband meets the definition of 
        ``former spouse'' that was in effect under section 204(b)(4) of 
        the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for 
        Certain Employees before December 4, 1991.
        (3) Commencement and termination of annuity.--
            (A) Commencement of annuity.--The entitlement of a former 
        wife or husband to a survivor annuity under this subsection 
        shall commence--
                (i) in the case of a former wife or husband of a 
            participant or retired participant who is deceased as of 
            October 1, 1994, beginning on the later of--

                    (I) the 60th day after such date; or
                    (II) the date on which the former wife or husband 
                reaches age 50; and

                (ii) in the case of any other former wife or husband, 
            beginning on the latest of--

                    (I) the date on which the participant or retired 
                participant to whom the former wife or husband was 
                married dies;
                    (II) the 60th day after October 1, 1994; or
                    (III) the date on which the former wife or husband 
                attains age 50.

            (B) Termination of annuity.--The entitlement of a former 
        wife or husband to a survivor annuity under this subsection 
        terminates on the last day of the month before the former wife's 
        or husband's death or remarriage before attaining age 55. The 
        entitlement of a former wife or husband to such a survivor 
        annuity shall be restored on the date such remarriage is 
        dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce.
        (4) Election of benefits.--A former wife or husband of a 
    participant or retired participant shall not become entitled under 
    this subsection to a survivor annuity or to the restoration of the 
    survivor annuity unless the former wife or husband elects to receive 
    it instead of any other survivor annuity to which the former wife or 
    husband may be entitled under the Central Intelligence Agency 
    Retirement and Disability System or any other retirement system for 
    Government employees on the basis of a marriage to someone other 
    than the participant.
        (5) Application.--
            (A) Time limit; waiver.--A survivor annuity under this 
        subsection shall not be payable unless appropriate written 
        application is provided to the Director, complete with any 
        supporting documentation which the Director may by regulation 
        require. Any such application shall be submitted not later than 
        October 1, 1995. The Director may waive the application deadline 
        under the preceding sentence in any case in which the Director 
        determines that the circumstances warrant such a waiver.
            (B) Retroactive benefits.--Upon approval of an application 
        provided under subparagraph (A), the appropriate survivor 
        annuity shall be payable to the former wife or husband with 
        respect to all periods before such approval during which the 
        former wife or husband was entitled to such annuity under this 
        subsection, but in no event shall a survivor annuity be payable 
        under this subsection with respect to any period before October 
        1, 1994.
        (6) Restoration of annuity.--Notwithstanding paragraph (5)(A), 
    the deadline by which an application for a survivor annuity must be 
    submitted shall not apply in cases in which a former spouse's 
    entitlement to such a survivor annuity is restored after October 1, 
    1994, under paragraph (2)(A) or (3)(B).
        (7) Applicability in cases of participants transferred to 
    fers.--
            (A) Entitlement.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), this 
        subsection shall apply to a former wife or husband of a 
        participant under the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
        Disability System who has elected to become subject to chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code.
            (B) Amount of annuity.--The survivor annuity of a person 
        covered by subparagraph (A) shall be equal to 50 percent of the 
        unreduced amount of the participant's annuity computed in 
        accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' 
        Retirement System Act of 1986 and shall be reduced by an amount 
        equal to any survivor annuity payments made to the former wife 
        or husband under section 8445 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Retirement Annuity.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Entitlement of former wife or husband.--A person 
        described in subsection (a)(1)(A) shall be entitled, except to 
        the extent such former spouse is disqualified under paragraph 
        (2), to an annuity--
                (i) if married to the participant throughout the 
            creditable service of the participant, equal to 50 percent 
            of the annuity of the participant; or
                (ii) if not married to the participant throughout such 
            creditable service, equal to that former wife's or husband's 
            pro rata share of 50 percent of such annuity (determined in 
            accordance with section 222(a)(1)(B) of the Central 
            Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2032 
            (a)(1)(B)).
            (B) Reduction in retirement annuities.--
                (i) Amount of reduction.--An annuity payable under this 
            subsection shall be reduced by an amount equal to any 
            apportionment payments payable to the former wife or husband 
            pursuant to the terms of a court order incident to the 
            dissolution of the marriage of such former spouse and the 
            participant, former participant, or retired participant.
                (ii) Definition of terms.--For purposes of clause (i):

                    (I) Apportionment.--The term ``apportionment'' means 
                a portion of a retired participant's annuity payable to 
                a former wife or husband either by the retired 
                participant or the Government in accordance with the 
                terms of a court order.
                    (II) Court order.--The term ``court order'' means 
                any decree of divorce or annulment or any court order or 
                court-approved property settlement agreement incident to 
                such decree.

        (2) Limitations.--A former wife or husband is not entitled to an 
    annuity under this subsection if--
            (A) the former wife or husband remarries before age 55, 
        except that the entitlement of the former wife or husband to an 
        annuity under this subsection shall be restored on the date such 
        remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce;
            (B) the former wife or husband is less than 50 years of age; 
        or
            (C) the former wife or husband meets the definition of 
        ``former spouse'' that was in effect under section 204(b)(4) of 
        the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for 
        Certain Employees before December 4, 1991.
        (3) Commencement and termination.--
            (A) Retirement annuities.--The entitlement of a former wife 
        or husband to an annuity under this subsection--
                (i) shall commence on the later of--

                    (I) October 1, 1994;
                    (II) the day the participant upon whose service the 
                right to the annuity is based becomes entitled to an 
                annuity under such Act; or
                    (III) such former wife's or husband's 50th birthday; 
                and

                (ii) shall terminate on the earlier of--

                    (I) the last day of the month before the former wife 
                or husband dies or remarries before 55 years of age, 
                except that the entitlement of the former wife or 
                husband to an annuity under this subsection shall be 
                restored on the date such remarriage is dissolved by 
                death, annulment, or divorce; or
                    (II) the date on which the annuity of the 
                participant terminates.

            (B) Disability annuities.--Notwithstanding subparagraph 
        (A)(i)(II), in the case of a former wife or husband of a 
        disability annuitant--
                (i) the annuity of the former wife or husband shall 
            commence on the date on which the participant would qualify 
            on the basis of the participant's creditable service for an 
            annuity under the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act 
            (other than a disability annuity) or the date the disability 
            annuity begins, whichever is later; and
                (ii) the amount of the annuity of the former wife or 
            husband shall be calculated on the basis of the annuity for 
            which the participant would otherwise so qualify.
            (C) Election of benefits.--A former wife or husband of a 
        participant or retired participant shall not become entitled 
        under this subsection to an annuity or to the restoration of an 
        annuity unless the former wife or husband elects to receive it 
        instead of any survivor annuity to which the former wife or 
        husband may be entitled under the Central Intelligence Agency 
        Retirement and Disability System or any other retirement system 
        for Government employees on the basis of a marriage to someone 
        other than the participant.
            (D) Application.--
                (i) Time limit; waiver.--An annuity under this 
            subsection shall not be payable unless appropriate written 
            application is provided to the Director of Central 
            Intelligence, complete with any supporting documentation 
            which the Director may by regulation require, not later than 
            October 1, 1995. The Director may waive the application 
            deadline under the preceding sentence in any case in which 
            the Director determines that the circumstances warrant such 
            a waiver.
                (ii) Retroactive benefits.--Upon approval of an 
            application under clause (i), the appropriate annuity shall 
            be payable to the former wife or husband with respect to all 
            periods before such approval during which the former wife or 
            husband was entitled to an annuity under this subsection, 
            but in no event shall an annuity be payable under this 
            subsection with respect to any period before October 1, 
            1994.
        (4) Restoration of annuities.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
    (3)(D)(i), the deadline by which an application for a retirement 
    annuity must be submitted shall not apply in cases in which a former 
    spouse's entitlement to such annuity is restored after October 1, 
    1994, under paragraph (2)(A) or (3)(A)(ii).
        (5) Applicability in cases of participants transferred to 
    fers.--The provisions of this subsection shall apply to a former 
    wife or husband of a participant under the Central Intelligence 
    Agency Retirement and Disability System who has elected to become 
    subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code. For purposes 
    of this paragraph, any reference in this section to a participant's 
    annuity under the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
    Disability System shall be deemed to refer to the transferred 
    participant's annuity computed in accordance with section 302(a) of 
    the Federal Employee's Retirement System Act of 1986.
        (6) Savings provision.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
    construed to impair, reduce, or otherwise affect the annuity or the 
    entitlement to an annuity of a participant or former participant 
    under title II or III of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
    Act.
    (c) Health Benefits.--
        (1) In general.--Section 16 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
    Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403p) is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as 
        subsections (e) through (g), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Eligibility of Former Wives or Husbands.--(1) Notwithstanding 
subsections (a) and (b) and except as provided in subsections (d), (e), 
and (f), an individual--
        ``(A) who was divorced on or before December 4, 1991, from a 
    participant or retired participant in the Central Intelligence 
    Agency Retirement and Disability System or the Federal Employees 
    Retirement System Special Category;
        ``(B) who was married to such participant for not less than ten 
    years during the participant's creditable service, at least five 
    years of which were spent by the participant during the 
    participant's service as an employee of the Agency outside the 
    United States, or otherwise in a position the duties of which 
    qualified the participant for designation by the Director of Central 
    Intelligence as a participant under section 203 of the Central 
    Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2013); and
        ``(C) who was enrolled in a health benefits plan as a family 
    member at any time during the 18-month period before the date of 
    dissolution of the marriage to such participant;
is eligible for coverage under a health benefits plan.
    ``(2) A former spouse eligible for coverage under paragraph (1) may 
enroll in a health benefits plan in accordance with subsection (b)(1), 
except that the election for such enrollment must be submitted within 60 
days after the date on which the Director notifies the former spouse of 
such individual's eligibility for health insurance coverage under this 
subsection.
    ``(d) Continuation of Eligibility.--Notwithstanding subsections (a), 
(b), and (c) and except as provided in subsections (e) and (f), an 
individual divorced on or before December 4, 1991, from a participant or 
retired participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System or Federal Employees' Retirement System Special 
Category who enrolled in a health benefits plan following the 
dissolution of the marriage to such participant may continue enrollment 
following the death of such participant notwithstanding the termination 
of the retirement annuity of such individual.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Subsection (a) of such section 
    is amended by striking ``subsection (c)(1)'' and inserting in lieu 
    thereof ``subsection (e)''.
        (B) Subsection (e)(2) of such section (as redesignated by 
    paragraph (1) of this section) is amended by inserting ``or to 
    subsection (d)'' after ``subsection (b)(1)''.
    (d) Source of Payment for Annuities.--Annuities provided under 
subsections (a) and (b) shall be payable from the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund maintained under section 202 of 
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2012).
    (e) Effective Date.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
    subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect as of October 1, 1994, the 
    amendments made by subsection (c) shall apply to individuals on and 
    after October 1, 1994, and no benefits provided pursuant to those 
    subsections shall be payable with respect to any period before 
    October 1, 1994.
        (2) Section 16(d) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 
    (as added by subsection (c) of this section) shall apply to 
    individuals beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 204. CROSS-REFERENCE CORRECTIONS TO REVISED CIARDS STATUTE.
    (a) Annual Intelligence Authorization Acts.--Section 306 of the 
Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990 (50 U.S.C. 403r-1) is 
amended by striking ``section 303 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``section 303 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2153)''.
    (b) Foreign Service Act of 1980.--The Foreign Service Act of 1980 is 
amended--
        (1) in section 853 (22 U.S.C. 4071b), by striking ``title II of 
    the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain 
    Employees'' in subsection (c) and inserting in lieu thereof ``title 
    II of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2011 
    et seq.)'';
        (2) in section 854 (22 U.S.C. 4071c)--
            (A) by striking ``title II of the Central Intelligence 
        Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees'' in 
        subsection (a)(3) and inserting in lieu thereof ``title II of 
        the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2011 
        et seq.)''; and
            (B) by striking ``title III of the Central Intelligence 
        Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees'' in 
        subsection (d) and inserting in lieu thereof ``title III of the 
        Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2151 et 
        seq.)''; and
        (3) in section 855 (22 U.S.C. 4071d), by striking ``under title 
    II of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for 
    Certain Employees or under section 302(a) or 303(b) of that Act'' in 
    subsection (b)(2)(A)(ii) and inserting in lieu thereof ``under title 
    II of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2011 
    et seq.) or under section 302(a) or 303(b) of that Act (50 U.S.C. 
    2152(a), 2153(b))''.
    (c) Internal Revenue Code of 1986.--Section 3121(b)(5)(H)(i) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``section 307 of 
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain 
Employees'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 307 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2157)''.
    (d) Social Security Act.--Section 210(a)(5)(H)(i) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 410(a)(5)(H)(i)) is amended by striking 
``section 307 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 
for Certain Employees'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 307 of 
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2157)''.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED 
      BY LAW.
    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or laws of the 
United States.

SEC. 303. TEMPORARY PAY RETENTION FOR CERTAIN FBI EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--Section 406 of the Federal Employees Pay 
Comparability Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 1467) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 406. FBI NEW YORK FIELD DIVISION.

    ``(a) The total pay of an employee of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation assigned to the New York Field Division before the date of 
September 29, 1993, in a position covered by the demonstration project 
conducted under section 601 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1989 (Public Law 100-453) shall not be reduced as a result 
of the termination of the demonstration project during the period that 
employee remains employed after that date in a position covered by the 
demonstration project.
    ``(b) Beginning on September 30, 1993, any periodic payment under 
section 601(a)(2) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1989 for any such employee shall be reduced by the amount of any 
increase in basic pay under title 5, United States Code, including the 
following provisions: an annual adjustment under section 5303, locality-
based comparability payment under section 5304, initiation or increase 
in a special pay rate under section 5305, promotion under section 5334, 
periodic step increase under section 5335, merit increase under section 
5404, or other increase to basic pay under any provision of law.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect as of September 30, 1993, and shall apply to the pay of employees 
to whom the amendment applies that is earned on or after that date.

SEC. 304. ANNUAL REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Annual DCI Report.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 
is amended by adding at the end the following new section:


           ``annual report on intelligence community activities

    ``Sec. 109. (a) In General.--The Director of Central Intelligence 
shall submit to Congress an annual report on the activities of the 
intelligence community. The annual report under this section shall be 
unclassified.
    ``(b) Matters To Be Covered in Annual Report.--Each report under 
this section shall describe--
        ``(1) the activities of the intelligence community during the 
    preceding fiscal year, including significant successes and failures 
    that can be described in an unclassified manner; and
        ``(2) the areas of the world and the issues that the Director 
    expects will require increased or unusual attention from the 
    intelligence community during the next fiscal year.
    ``(c) Time for Submission.--The report under this section for any 
year shall be submitted at the same time that the President submits the 
budget for the next fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
108 the following new item:

``Sec. 109. Annual report on intelligence community activities.''.

SEC. 305. SECURITY REVIEWS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) the President directed the Director of the Information 
    Security Oversight Office to review Executive Order 12356 and other 
    directives relating to the protection of national security 
    information and to report no later than November 30, 1993; and
        (2) the Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central 
    Intelligence have established a joint security commission to conduct 
    a review of security practices and procedures at the Department of 
    Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency and to report within 1 
    year of the establishment of the commission.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Director of Central Intelligence, the Secretary of 
    Defense, and the Director of the Information Security Oversight 
    Office should conduct the reviews referred to in subsection (a) with 
    maximum consultation with each other; and
        (2) the results of these reviews should be incorporated into a 
    consolidated recommendation for the President.
    SEC. 306. REPORT ON UNITED STATES EFFORTS TO COUNTER TERRORISM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, the Attorney General of the 
United States, and the Director of Central Intelligence shall jointly 
submit to the Congress, not later than May 1, 1994, a report on United 
States Government programs to counter terrorism.
    (b) Matters To Be Covered in Report.--The report required by 
subsection (a) shall, at a minimum--
        (1) identify Federal Government activities, programs and assets 
    which are being utilized or could be utilized to counter terrorism;
        (2) assess the processing, analysis, and distribution of 
    intelligence or terrorism and make recommendations for improvement;
        (3) make recommendations on appropriate national policies, both 
    preventive and reactive, to counter terrorism;
        (4) assess the coordination among law enforcement, intelligence, 
    and defense agencies involved in counterterrorism activities and 
    make recommendations concerning how coordination can be improved; 
    and
        (5) assess whether there should be more centralized operational 
    control over Federal Government activities, programs, and assets 
    utilized to counter terrorism, and, if so, make recommendations 
    concerning how such control should be achieved.

SEC. 307. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE GAPS.

    (a) Report.--The Director of Central Intelligence and the Secretary 
of Defense jointly shall prepare and submit by February 15, 1994, to the 
Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and to the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Services, and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report 
described in subsection (b).
    (b) Contents of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall--
        (1) identify and assess the critical gaps between the 
    information needs of the United States Government and intelligence 
    collection capabilities, to include the identification of topics and 
    areas of the world of significant interest to the United States to 
    which the application of additional resources, technology, or other 
    efforts would generate new information of high priority to senior 
    officials of the United States Government;
        (2) identify and assess gaps in the ability of the intelligence 
    community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act 
    of 1947) to provide intelligence support needed by the Armed Forces 
    of the United States and, in particular, by the commanders of 
    combatant commands established under section 161(a) of title 10, 
    United States Code; and
        (3) contain joint recommendations of the Director of Central 
    Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense on appropriate means, to 
    include specific budgetary adjustments, for reducing or eliminating 
    the gaps identified under paragraphs (1) and (2).

SEC. 308. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONTRACTING.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Director of Central 
Intelligence should continue to direct that elements of the intelligence 
community, whenever compatible with the national security interests of 
the United States and consistent with the operational and security 
concerns related to the conduct of intelligence activities, and where 
fiscally sound, should award contracts in a manner that would maximize 
the procurement of products properly designated as having been made in 
the United States.
    SEC. 309. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 307 OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY ACT.
    Section 307 of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
striking ``provisions and purposes of this Act'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``provisions and purposes of this Act (other than the provisions 
and purposes of sections 102, 103, 104, 105 and titles V, VI, and 
VII)''.

SEC. 310. RATIFICATION OF FUNDING TRANSACTION.

    Funds obligated or expended for the Accelerated Architecture 
Acquisition Initiative of the Plan to Improve the Imagery Ground 
Architecture based upon the notification to the appropriate committees 
of Congress by the Director of Central Intelligence dated August 16, 
1993, shall be deemed to have been specifically authorized by the 
Congress for purposes of section 504(a)(3) of the National Security Act 
of 1947.

SEC. 311. NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION TRUST FUND.

    (a) Reduction of Amounts in Trust Fund.--The amount in the National 
Security Education Trust Fund established pursuant to section 804 of 
Public Law 102-183 (50 U.S.C. 1904) in excess of $120,000,000 that has 
not been appropriated from the trust fund as of the date of enactment of 
this Act shall be transferred to the Treasury of the United States as 
miscellaneous receipts.
    (b) Annual Assessment.--(1) Section 806 of such Public Law (50 
U.S.C. 1903) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Consultation.--During the preparation of each report required 
by subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the members of the 
Board specified in paragraphs (1) through (7) of section 803(b). Each 
such member shall submit to the Secretary an assessment of their hiring 
needs in the areas of language and area studies and a projection of the 
deficiencies in such areas. The Secretary shall include all assessments 
in the report required by subsection (a).''.
    (2) Section 802(a) of such Public Law (50 U.S.C. 1902(a)) is 
amended--
        (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting before the semicolon at 
    the end the following: ``in those language and study areas where 
    deficiencies exist (as identified in the assessments undertaken 
    pursuant to section 806(d))''; and
        (B) in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by inserting before the semicolon at 
    the end the following: ``and in which deficiencies exist (as 
    identified in the assessments undertaken pursuant to section 
    806(d))''.
    (c) Funding for Fiscal Years 1993 Through 1996.--Title VIII of such 
Public Law (50 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 810. FUNDING.

    ``(a) Fiscal Years 1993 and 1994.--Amounts appropriated to carry out 
this title for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 shall remain available until 
expended.
    ``(b) Fiscal Years 1995 and 1996.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated from, and may be obligated from, the Fund for each of the 
fiscal years 1995 and 1996 not more than the amount credited to the Fund 
in interest only for the preceding fiscal year under section 804(e).''.
    (d) Technical Correction.--Section 802(a)(1)(A) of such Public Law 
(50 U.S.C. 1902(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking the comma after 
``term,''.

                  TITLE IV--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

    SEC. 401. SUPPORT FOR SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, AND ENGINEERING 
      EDUCATION.
    (a) General Authority.--In recognition of the importance of science, 
mathematics, and engineering to the national security and in order to 
encourage students to pursue studies in science, mathematics, and 
engineering, the Director of Central Intelligence may carry out a 
program in fiscal years 1994 and 1995 to award cash prizes and visits to 
the Central Intelligence Agency (including the payment of costs 
associated with such visits) for students who participate in high school 
science fairs within the United States.
    (b) Merit.--Awards made under subsection (a) shall be made solely on 
the basis of merit.
    (c) Equitable Regional Representation.--The Director shall ensure 
that there is equitable regional representation with respect to the 
program carried out under subsection (a).
    (d) Limitation on Expenditures.--The Director may not expend more 
than $5,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994 and 1995 to carry out this 
section.

                TITLE V--ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

SEC. 501. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949.

    The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 is amended--
        (1) in section 5(a) (50 U.S.C. 403f(a))--
            (A) by striking ``Bureau of the Budget'' and inserting in 
        lieu thereof ``Office of Management and Budget''; and
            (B) by striking ``sections 102 and 303 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (Public Law 253, Eightieth Congress)'' in 
        the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ``subparagraphs 
        (B) and (C) of section 102(a)(2), subsections (c)(5) and (d) of 
        section 103, subsections (a) and (g) of section 104, and section 
        303 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403(a)(2), 
        403-3, 403-4, and 405)'';
        (2) in the first sentence of section 6 (50 U.S.C. 403g)--
            (A) by striking ``the proviso of section 102(d)(3) of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (Public Law 253, Eightieth 
        Congress, first session)'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``section 103(c)(5) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 403-3(c)(5))''; and
            (B) by striking ``Bureau of the Budget'' and inserting in 
        lieu thereof ``Office of Management and Budget''; and
        (3) in section 19(b) (50 U.S.C. 403s(b))--
            (A) by striking ``Section 231'' in the heading after ``(b)'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``Section 232'';
            (B) by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403 note)'' in paragraph (2) 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``(50 U.S.C. 2013)''; and
            (C) by striking ``section 231'' in the matter following 
        paragraph (4) and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 232''.

SEC. 502. NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.

    Section 103(d)(3) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
403-3(d)(3)) is amended by striking ``providing'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``provide''.
    SEC. 503. CODIFICATION IN TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, OF CERTAIN 
      PERMANENT PROVISIONS.
    (a) Intelligence-Related Provision.--(1) Chapter 21 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 424 the 
following new section:
``§425. Disclosure of personnel information: exemption for National 
    Reconnaissance Office
    ``(a) Exemption From Disclosure.--Except as required by the 
President or as provided in subsection (b), no provision of law shall be 
construed to require the disclosure of the name, title, or salary of any 
person employed by, or assigned or detailed to, the National 
Reconnaissance Office or the disclosure of the number of such persons.
    ``(b) Provision of Information to Congress.--Subsection (a) does not 
apply with respect to the provision of information to Congress.''.
    (2) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of such 
chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``425. Disclosure of personnel information: exemption for National 
Reconnaissance Office.''.

    (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 406 of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-496; 10 U.S.C. 
424 note) is repealed.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.