[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4429 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4429

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the transfer of naval vessels to certain foreign 
countries.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER NAVAL VESSELS TO CERTAIN FOREIGN 
COUNTRIES.
    (a) Australia.--Subject to section 6, the Secretary of the Navy is 
authorized to transfer to the Government of Australia the ``NEWPORT'' 
class tank landing ships SAGINAW (LST 1188) and FAIRFAX COUNTY (LST 
1193). Such transfers shall be on a sales basis under section 21 of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761; relating to the foreign 
military sales program).
    (b) Brazil.--Subject to section 6, the Secretary of the Navy is 
authorized to transfer to the Government of Brazil the ``NEWPORT'' 
class tank landing ship CAYUGA (LST 1186) and the ``KNOX'' class 
frigates MILLER (FF 1091) and VALDEZ (FF 1096). Such transfers shall be 
on a lease basis under chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2796 and following).
    (c) Morocco.--Subject to section 6, the Secretary of the Navy is 
authorized to transfer to the Government of Morocco the ``NEWPORT'' 
class tank landing ship BRISTOL COUNTY (LST 1198). Such transfer shall 
be on a grant basis under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j; relating to transfers of excess defense 
articles).
    (d) Spain.--Subject to section 6, the Secretary of the Navy is 
authorized to transfer to the Government of Spain the ``NEWPORT'' class 
tank landing ship BARNSTABLE COUNTY (LST 1197). Such transfer shall be 
on a lease basis under chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2796 and following).

SEC. 2. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS.

    The following provisions do not apply with respect to the transfers 
authorized by this Act:
        (1) In case of a grant under section 516 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961, subsection (c) of that section and any 
    similar provision of law.
        (2) In the case of a sale under section 21 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 525 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
    Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public 
    Law 103-87) and any similar, successor provision of law.
        (3) In the case of a lease under section 61 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 62 of that Act (except that section 62 of that 
    Act shall apply to any renewal of the lease).

SEC. 3. COSTS OF TRANSFERS.

    Any expense of the United States in connection with a transfer 
authorized by this Act shall be charged to the recipient.

SEC. 4. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority granted by section 1 of this Act shall expire at the 
end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, except that leases entered into during that period under section 1 
may be renewed.
SEC. 5. REPAIR AND REFURBISHMENT OF VESSELS IN THE UNITED STATES.
    It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of the Navy 
should request that each country to which a naval vessel is transferred 
under this Act have such repair or refurbishment of the vessel as is 
needed, before the vessel joins the naval forces of that country, 
performed at shipyards located in the United States, including United 
States navy shipyards.

SEC. 6. CONDITION FOR TRANSFER.

    No vessel may be transferred under this Act until the Secretary of 
Defense certifies in writing to Congress that, after the transfer--
        (1) the amphibious lift capacity remaining available in the 
    Navy is sufficient in all lift categories to transport 2\1/2\ 
    Marine Corps expeditionary brigades simultaneously; and
        (2) the amphibious lift capacity planned to be available in the 
    Navy under the future-years defense program will be sufficient in 
    all lift categories, throughout the period covered by the future-
    years defense program, to transport 2\1/2\ Marine Corps 
    expeditionary brigades simultaneously.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.