[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4426 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4426

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and 
making supplemental appropriations for such programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other 
purposes, namely:

               TITLE I--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE


                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                  International Financial Institutions


      contribution to the International bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
share of the paid-in share portion of the increases in capital stock 
for the General Capital Increase, $23,009,101, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That one quarter of such funds may be 
obligated only after April 1, 1995: Provided further, That one quarter 
of such funds may be obligated only after September 1, 1995: Provided 
further, That not more than twenty-one days prior to the obligation of 
each such sum, the Secretary shall submit a certification to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Bank has not approved any loans 
to Iran since October 1, 1994, or the President of the United States 
certifies that withholding of these funds is contrary to the national 
interest of the United States.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of increases in capital stock in an amount not to exceed $743,923,914.
    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Global Environment Facility (GEF), $90,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.


        CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $1,235,000,000, for the United States 
contribution to the replenishment, to remain available until expended.


          contribution to the international finance corporation

    For payment to the International Finance Corporation by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $68,743,028, for the United States share of 
the increase in subscriptions to capital stock, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading not more than $5,364,000 may be expended for the purchase of 
such stock in fiscal year 1995.


           contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, for the United States share of the paid-in share 
portion of the increase in capital stock, $28,111,959, and for the 
United States share of the increases in the resources of the Fund for 
Special Operations, $21,338,000, and for the United States share of the 
capital stock of the Inter-American Investment Corporation, $190,000, 
to remain available until expended.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $1,594,568,180.


      contribution to the enterprise for the americas multilateral 
                            investment fund

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Fund to be administered by the Inter-American 
Development Bank, $75,000,000 to remain available until expended.


                contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increases in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended (Public Law 
89-369), $167,960,000, to remain available until expended.


               contribution to the african development fund

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $124,229,309, for the United States contribution to the 
African Development Fund, to remain available until expended.


               contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, for the paid-in share portion of the United States share of 
the increase in capital stock, $133,000, to remain available until 
expended.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $2,002,540.


   contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $69,180,353, for the United States 
share of the paid-in share portion of the initial capital subscription, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading not more than $7,002,000 may be 
expended for the purchase of such stock in fiscal year 1995.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $161,420,824.


   contribution to the enhanced structural adjustment facility of the 
                      international monetary fund

    For payment to the Interest Subsidy Account of the Enhanced 
Structural Adjustment Facility of the International Monetary Fund, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                 international organizations and programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $374,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for the International Atomic Energy 
Agency only if the Secretary of State Pdetermines (and so reports to 
the Congress) that Israel is not being denied its right to participate 
in the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading that are made available for the United 
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), 75 per centum shall be obligated and 
expended no later than thirty days after the date of enactment of this 
Act and 25 per centum shall be expended within thirty days from the 
start of UNICEF's fourth quarter of operations for 1995: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading that 
are made available to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) shall 
be made available for activities in the People's Republic of China: 
Provided further, That not more than $50,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available to the UNFPA: 
Provided further, That not more than one-half of this amount may be 
provided to UNFPA before March 1, 1995, and that no later than February 
15, 1995, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations indicating the amount UNFPA is budgeting 
for the People's Republic of China in 1995: Provided further, That any 
amount UNFPA plans to spend in the People's Republic of China in 1995 
above $7,000,000, shall be deducted from the amount of funds provided 
to UNFPA after March 1, 1995 pursuant to the previous provisos: 
Provided further, That with respect to any funds appropriated under 
this heading that are made available to UNFPA, UNFPA shall be required 
to maintain such funds in a separate account and not commingle them 
with any other funds.

                TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE


                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 1995, unless 
otherwise specified herein, as follows:

                  Agency for International Development


                       development assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $853,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this title under the heading ``Agency for 
International Development'', (1) not less than $280,000,000 should be 
made available for activities which have as their objective the 
reduction of childhood mortality, including such activities as 
immunization programs, oral rehydration programs, and education 
programs which address improved nutrition, and water and sanitation 
programs, (2) not less than $135,000,000 should be made available for 
basic education programs, and (3) not less than $25,000,000 should be 
made available for micronutrient programs.


                    POPULATION, DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 
104(b), $450,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available in this Act nor any 
unobligated balances from prior appropriations may be made available to 
any organization or program which, as determined by the President of 
the United States, supports or participates in the management of a 
program of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
be used to pay for the performance of abortion as a method of family 
planning or to motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions; and 
that in order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, 
funds shall be available only to voluntary family planning projects 
which offer, either directly or through referral to, or information 
about access to, a broad range of family planning methods and services: 
Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family planning 
under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant 
shall be discriminated against because of such applicant's religious or 
conscientious commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, 
additionally, all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of 
the previous proviso: Provided further, That for purposes of this or 
any other Act authorizing or appropriating funds for foreign 
operations, export financing, and related programs, the term 
``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, shall not be 
construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local law, of 
information or counseling about all pregnancy options including 
abortion: Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than the amount equal to the amount made available for the Office of 
Population of the Agency for International Development in fiscal year 
1994 shall be made available to that office: Provided further, That the 
Administrator of the Agency for International Development may decrease 
that amount only if he consults with and provides a written 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, 
That such justification shall be considered in accordance with the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


                       development fund for africa

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 10 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $802,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out chapters 1 and 10 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be transferred to the 
Government of Zaire: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading which are made available for activities supported by the 
Southern Africa Development Community shall be made available 
notwithstanding section 512 of this Act and section 620(q) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                  PRIVATE AND VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 per centum of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the requirements of 
the provisions of section 123(g) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
and the provisions on private and voluntary organizations in title II 
of the ``Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1985'' (as enacted in Public Law 98-473) shall be superseded by the 
provisions of this section.


                    INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $169,998,000 to 
remain available until expended.


                            debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, of modifying direct loans and loan guarantees, as the 
President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the PInternational Affairs 
Budget Function 150, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended.


          micro and small enterprise development program account

    For the subsidy cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, 
$1,500,000, as authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That guarantees of loans made under this heading in support of 
microenterprise activities may guarantee up to 70 percent of the 
principal amount of any such loans notwithstanding section 108 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out programs under this heading, $500,000, all of 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development.


                     HOUSING GUARANTY PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the subsidy cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990, of guaranteed loans authorized by sections 221 
and 222 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $19,300,000: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize loan principal, 100 percent 
of which shall be guaranteed, pursuant to the authority of such 
sections: Provided further, That the President shall enter into 
commitments to guarantee such loans in the full amount provided under 
this heading, subject to the availability of qualified applicants for 
such guarantees. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
guaranteed loan programs, $8,000,000, all of which may be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for Operating Expenses of the 
Agency for International Development: Provided further, That 
commitments to guarantee loans under this heading may be entered into 
notwithstanding the second and third sentences of section 222(a) and, 
with regard to programs for Eastern Europe and programs for the benefit 
of South Africans disadvantaged by apartheid, section 223(j) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except through 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.


      PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $45,118,000.


      OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$517,500,000: Provided, That of this amount not more than $1,475,000 
may be made available to pay for printing costs: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs administered by 
the Agency for International Development may be used to finance 
printing costs of any report or study (except feasibility, design, or 
evaluation reports or studies) in excess of $25,000 without the 
approval of the Administrator of that Agency or the Administrator's 
designee.


  OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 
                          OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$39,118,000, which sum shall be available for the Office of the 
Inspector General of the Agency for International Development.


                          ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,349,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $1,200,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1994, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $815,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance may be provided, 
with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic 
reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in previous 
fiscal years, and of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be provided 
as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That in 
exercising the authority to provide cash transfer assistance for Israel 
and Egypt, the President shall ensure that the level of such assistance 
does not cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary 
exports from the United States to each such country: Provided further, 
That it is the sense of the Congress that the recommended levels of 
assistance for Egypt and Israel are based in great measure upon their 
continued participation in the Camp David Accords and upon the 
Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be made available for Zaire: 
Provided further, That not more than $50,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available to finance tied-
aid credits, unless the President determines it is in the national 
interest to provide in excess of $50,000,000 and so notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available or limited by this Act may be used for 
tied-aid credits or tied-aid grants except through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out 
the provisions of chapters 1 and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 may be used for tied-aid credits: Provided further, That as 
used in this heading the term ``tied-aid credits'' means any credit, 
within the meaning of section 15(h)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, which is used for blended or parallel financing, as those terms 
are defined by sections 15(h) (4) and (5), respectively, of such Act: 
Provided further, That not less than $15,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be made available for Cyprus to 
be used only for scholarships, bicommunal projects, and measures aimed 
at the reunification of the island and designed to reduce tensions, and 
promote peace and cooperation between the two communities on Cyprus.


                      international fund for ireland

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, up to $19,600,000, which shall be 
available for the United States contribution to the International Fund 
for Ireland and shall be made available in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 (Public Law 
99-415): Provided, That such amount shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and activities: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading shall 
remain available until expended.


           assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $359,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, for economic assistance and for related programs for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States.
    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior 
appropriations Acts that are or have been made available for an 
Enterprise Fund may be deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing 
accounts prior to the Fund's disbursement of such funds for program 
purposes. The Fund may retain for such program purposes any interest 
earned on such deposits without returning such interest to the Treasury 
of the United States and without further appropriation by the Congress. 
Funds made available for Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the 
minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities.
    (c) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.


   assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 
11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM 
Support Act, for assistance for the new independent states of the 
former Soviet Union and for related programs, $850,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the provisions of 498B(j) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to funds appropriated by 
this paragraph.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
transferred to the Government of Russia--
        (1) unless that Government is making progress in implementing 
    comprehensive economic reforms based on market principles, private 
    ownership, negotiating repayment of commercial debt, respect for 
    commercial contracts, and equitable treatment of foreign private 
    investment; and
        (2) if that Government applies or transfers United States 
    assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
    seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or ventures.
    (c) Funds may be furnished without regard to subsection (b) if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (d) None of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be made 
available to any government of the new independent states of the former 
Soviet Union if that government directs any action in violation of the 
territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any other new 
independent state, such as those violations included in Principle Six 
of the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made 
available without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest of the 
United States: Provided further, That the restriction of this 
subsection shall not apply to the use of such funds for the provision 
of assistance for purposes of humanitarian, disaster and refugee 
relief.
    (e) None of the funds appropriated under this heading for the new 
independent states of the former Soviet Union shall be made available 
for any state to enhance its military capability: Provided, That this 
restriction does not apply to demilitarization, defense conversion or 
non-proliferation programs, or programs to support troop withdrawal 
including through the support of an officer resettlement program, and 
technical assistance for the housing sector.
    (f) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the 
regular procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the new 
independent states of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (h) Funds appropriated under this heading may be made available for 
assistance for Mongolia.
    (i) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the new 
independent states of the former Soviet Union shall be provided to the 
maximum extent feasible through the private sector, including private 
voluntary organizations and nongovernmental organizations functioning 
in the new independent states.
    (j) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$15,000,000 should be available only for a family planning program for 
the new independent states of the former Soviet Union comparable to the 
family planning program currently administered by the Agency for 
International Development in the Central Asian Republics and focusing 
on population assistance which provides an alternative to abortion.
    (k) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$150,000,000 should be made available for programs for Ukraine: 
Provided, That of these funds not less than $25,000,000 should be made 
available for land privatization activities and development of small 
and medium size businesses, including agriculture enterprises.
    (l) Of the funds made available by this or any other Act, not less 
than $75,000,000 should be made available for programs and activities 
for Armenia.
    (m) Of the funds made available by this or any other Act, not less 
than $50,000,000 should be made available for programs and activities 
for Georgia.
    (n) The President should establish a Trans-Caucasus Enterprise 
Fund.
    (o) The report required by subsection (d) under the heading 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'', contained in Public Law 102-391, shall be updated at least 
annually and shall also contain a listing of all grants and contracts 
issued from funds appropriated annually for the new independent states 
of the former Soviet Union, to include for each grant and contract (1) 
a description of its purpose, (2) its amount, and (3) the country where 
the grant or contract funds are to be expended.
    (p) Not less than $50,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading should be made available for programs and activities which 
match United States private sector resources with Federal funds.
    (q) Within sixty days of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps being taken to include 
individuals and organizations with language or regional expertise in 
the provision of assistance to the new independent states of the former 
Soviet Union.
    (r) Of the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
heading ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', not to 
exceed $30,000,000 shall be made available for police training and 
exchanges, and investigative and technical assistance activities 
related to international criminal activities.
    (s) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 50 
percent should be made available for country specific activities within 
bilateral, regional, or multilateral programs, except as provided 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                          Independent Agencies


                      african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of title V of 
the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980, 
Public Law 96-533, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 9104, title 
31, United States Code, $16,905,000: Provided, That, when, with the 
permission of the President of the Foundation, funds made available to 
a grantee under this heading are invested pending disbursement, the 
resulting interest is not required to be deposited in the United States 
Treasury if the grantee uses the resulting interest for the purpose for 
which the grant was made: Provided further, That this provision applies 
with respect to both interest earned before and interest earned after 
the enactment of this provision: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
Psection 505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation Act, in 
exceptional circumstances the board of directors of the Foundation may 
waive the dollar limitation contained in that section with respect to a 
project: Provided further, That the Foundation shall provide a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations after each time such waiver 
authority is exercised.


                        INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, and to make such contracts and 
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 
section 9104, title 31, United States Code, $30,960,000.

                              PEACE CORPS

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $219,745,000, including the purchase of not 
to exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 1996.

                          Department of State


                     INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 481 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $105,000,000: Provided, That 
during fiscal year 1995, the Department of State may also use the 
authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without 
regard to its restrictions, to receive non-lethal excess property from 
an agency of the United States Government for the purpose of providing 
it to a foreign country under chapter 8 of part I of that Act subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.


                     MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross and assistance to 
refugees, including contributions to the Intergovernmental Committee 
for Migration and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; 
salaries and expenses of personnel and dependents as authorized by the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 
through 5925 of title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
States Code, $671,000,000: Provided, That not more than $11,500,000 of 
the funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
administrative expenses of the Office of Refugee Programs of the 
Department of State: Provided further, That not less than $80,000,000 
shall be made available for refugees from the former Soviet Union and 
Eastern Europe and other refugees resettling in Israel.

                    refugee resettlement assistance

    For necessary expenses for the targeted assistance program 
authorized by title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 and 
administered by the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department of 
Health and Human Services, in addition to amounts otherwise available 
for such purposes, $6,000,000.


      united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $50,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 
2(c)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 which would 
limit the amount of funds which could be appropriated for this purpose.


                        ANTI-TERRORISM ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $15,244,000.


                  nonproliferation and disarmament fund

    For necessary expenses for a ``Nonproliferation and Disarmament 
Fund'', $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to promote 
bilateral and multilateral activities: Provided, That such funds may be 
used pursuant to the authorities contained in section 504 of the 
FREEDOM Support Act: Provided further, That such funds may also be used 
for such countries other than the new independent states of the former 
Soviet Union and international organizations when it is in the national 
security interest of the United States to do so: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President


              INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $25,500,000: Provided, That up 
to $300,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for grant financed military education and training for any 
country whose annual per capita GNP exceeds $2,349 on the condition 
that that country agrees to fund from its own resources the 
transportation cost and living allowances of its students: Provided 
further, That the civilian personnel for whom military education and 
training may be provided under this heading may also include members of 
national legislatures who are responsible for the oversight and 
management of the military, and may also include individuals who are 
not members of a government: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for Indonesia, 
Rwanda, and Zaire: Provided further, That a report is to be submitted 
to the Committees on Appropriations addressing how the proposed School 
of the Americas IMET program for fiscal year 1995 will contribute to 
the promotion of human rights, respect for civilian authority and the 
rule of law, the establishment of legitimate judicial mechanisms for 
the military, and achieving the goal of right sizing military forces: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading or under the heading ``Military-to-Military Contact Program'' 
may be made available for Thailand or Algeria except through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall submit, by February 
1, 1995, a report to the Committees on Appropriations on the Thai 
military's support for the Khmer Rouge and the Thai Government's 
efforts to impede support for Burmese democracy advocates, exiles, and 
refugees.


                   military-to-military contact program

    For necessary expenses, for the military-to-military contact 
program of the Department of Defense, $12,000,000: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available only for 
activities in the area of responsibility of the United States Pacific 
Command and for activities for East European countries and the Baltic 
States.


                    foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,151,279,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph not less than $1,800,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be available 
for grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within 
thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1994, whichever 
is later: Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of 
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and 
the United States, be available for advanced fighter aircraft programs 
or for other advanced weapons systems, as follows: (1) up to 
$150,000,000 shall be available for research and development in the 
United States; and (2) not less than $475,000,000 shall be available 
for the procurement in Israel of defense articles and defense services, 
including research and development: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this paragraph shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding 
any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act.
    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, of direct loans authorized by section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act as follows: cost of direct loans, $47,917,000: 
Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of not to exceed $619,650,000: 
Provided further, That the rate of interest charged on such loans shall 
be not less than the current average market yield on outstanding 
marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
made available for Greece and Turkey only on a loan basis, and the 
principal amount of direct loans for each country shall not exceed the 
following: $255,150,000 only for Greece and $364,500,000 only for 
Turkey: Provided further, That 10 percent of the principal amount of 
direct loans for Turkey shall be withheld until the Secretary of State, 
in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, has submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations a report addressing, among other things, 
the allegations of abuses against civilians by the Turkish armed forces 
and the situation in Cyprus, and a separate notification has been 
submitted at least 15 days prior to the obligation of such funds: 
Provided further, That 10 percent of the principal amount of direct 
loans for Greece shall be withheld until the Secretary of State has 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations a report on the 
allegations of Greek violations of the United Nations sanctions against 
Serbia and of the United Nations Charter, and a separate notification 
has been submitted at least 15 days prior to the obligation of such 
funds.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: 
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 515 of this Act: Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance 
with paragraph (5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a): 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available for Zaire, Sudan, Liberia, Guatemala, and 
Peru: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for Colombia or Bolivia until the 
Secretary of State certifies that such funds will be used by such 
country primarily for counternarcotics activities: Provided further, 
That funds made available under this heading may be used, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for demining activities, 
and may include activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations: Provided further, That not more than 
$100,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available for use in financing the procurement of defense articles, 
defense services, or design and construction services that are not sold 
by the United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act to 
countries other than Israel and Egypt: Provided further, That only 
those countries for which assistance was justified for the ``Foreign 
Military Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 
congressional presentation for security assistance programs may utilize 
funds made available under this heading for procurement of defense 
articles, defense services or design and construction services that are 
not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export Control 
Act: Provided further, That, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, funds made available 
under this heading for the cost of direct loans may also be used to 
supplement the funds available under this heading for necessary 
expenses for grants if countries specified under this heading as 
eligible for such direct loans decline to utilize such loans: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended 
at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for defense 
articles and services: Provided further, That the Department of Defense 
shall conduct during the current fiscal year nonreimbursable audits of 
private firms whose contracts are made directly with foreign 
governments and are financed with funds made available under this 
heading (as well as subcontractors thereunder) as requested by the 
Defense Security Assistance Agency: Provided further, That not more 
than $22,150,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the United 
States, for the general costs of administering military assistance and 
sales: Provided further, That not more than $335,000,000 of funds 
realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during fiscal year 1995 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export 
Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded only through 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, and no employee of the Defense Security Assistance 
Agency, may be used to facilitate the transport of aircraft to 
commercial arms sales shows.


                     special defense acquisition fund

    Notwithstanding any provision of Public Law 102-391 as amended by 
Public Law 103-87, not to exceed $140,000,000 of the obligational 
authority provided in that Act under the heading ``Special Defense 
Acquisition Fund'' may be obligated pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the 
Arms Export Control Act.
    Not to exceed $20,000,000 may be obligated pursuant to section 
51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act for the purposes of closing the 
Special Defense Acquisition Fund, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1998: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
Act is not used to initiate new procurements.


                         PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS

                      (INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $75,000,000: Provided, That of 
this amount up to $850,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, 
funds appropriated under the heading ``International Military Education 
and Training'' to carry out the provisions of section 541 of the Act: 
Provided further, That funds transferred under the previous proviso 
shall be in addition to amounts that may be transferred between 
accounts under the authority of any other provision of law.

                      TITLE IV--EXPORT ASSISTANCE


                 EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon State as defined in article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

                         subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $786,551,000 to remain available until September 30, 
1996: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until 2010 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 1995 and 1996: 
Provided further, That up to $100,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
paragraph shall remain available until expended and may be used for 
tied-aid grant purposes: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph may be used for tied-aid credits or 
grants except through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
by this paragraph are made available notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, in connection with the purchase or 
lease of any product by any East European country, any Baltic State, or 
any agency or national thereof.


                         ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs (to be computed on an accrual basis), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $20,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
$45,228,000: Provided, That necessary expenses (including special 
services performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other 
personal services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the 
Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other 
assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank in satisfaction of moneys 
owed the Export-Import Bank, or the investigation or appraisal of any 
property, or the evaluation of the legal or technical aspects of any 
transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance 
commitment has been made, shall be considered nonadministrative 
expenses for the purposes of this heading: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement 
Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 1995.


                 overseas private investment corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for 
official reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed 
$35,000) shall not exceed $24,322,000: Provided further, That project-
specific transaction costs, including direct and indirect costs 
incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs associated with 
services provided to specific investors or potential investors pursuant 
to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be 
considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.


                             program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $33,944,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 1995 and 1996: 
Provided further, That such sums shall remain available through fiscal 
year 2003 for the disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated 
in fiscal year 1995, and through fiscal year 2004 for the disbursement 
of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 1996. In 
addition, such sums as may be necessary for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit program may be derived from amounts available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance programs 
in the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and 
merged with said account.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President


                       TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $44,986,000.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS


              OBLIGATIONS DURING LAST MONTH OF AVAILABILITY

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 per centum of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.


      PROHIBITION OF BILATERAL FUNDING FOR INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
                              INSTITUTIONS

    Sec. 502. None of the funds contained in title II of this Act may 
be used to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.


                     LIMITATION ON RESIDENCE EXPENSES

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.


                          LIMITATION ON EXPENSES

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal 
year.


                LIMITATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL ALLOWANCES

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned 
foreign currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available by this Act for general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available 
for entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances.


                  PROHIBITION ON FINANCING NUCLEAR GOODS

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'') pursuant 
to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may 
be used, except for purposes of nuclear safety, to finance the export 
of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology.


         PROHIBITION AGAINST DIRECT FUNDING FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, 
North Korea, Iran, Serbia, Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes 
of this section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall 
include direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-
Import Bank or its agents.


                              MILITARY COUPS

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to 
finance directly any assistance to any country whose duly elected Head 
of Government is deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That 
assistance may be resumed to such country if the President determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the 
termination of assistance a democratically elected government has taken 
office.


                        TRANSFERS BETWEEN ACCOUNTS

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any 
authority contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer 
funds, consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.


                   DEOBLIGATION/REOBLIGATION AUTHORITY

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under the ``Agency for International Development'' are, if 
deobligated, hereby continued available for the same period as the 
respective appropriations under such headings or until September 30, 
1995, whichever is later, and for the same general purpose, and for 
countries within the same region as originally obligated: Provided, 
That the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of the Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of the deobligation and reobligation 
of such funds in accordance with regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 
23 of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under 
this Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be 
used in fiscal year 1995.


                          AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, shall remain available until expended if such funds 
are initially obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of 
payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the report required by section 
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate for each 
country, to the extent known at the time of submission of such report, 
those funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of payment and 
economic policy reform purposes.


             LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES IN DEFAULT

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United States 
of principal or interest on any loan made to such country by the United 
States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated under 
this Act: Provided, That this section and section 620(q) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds made available in this 
Act or during the current fiscal year for Nicaragua, and for any 
narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru authorized 
by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act.


                            COMMERCE AND TRADE

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the 
commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the 
resulting productive capacity is expected to become operative and if 
the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers 
of the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the 
judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and 
employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
        (1) activities designed to increase food security in developing 
    countries where such activities will not have a significant impact 
    in the export of agricultural commodities of the United States; or
        (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit American 
    producers.
    (c) None of the funds provided in this Act to the Agency for 
International Development, other than funds made available to carry out 
Caribbean Basin Initiative programs under the Tariff Schedules of the 
United States, section 1202 of title 19, United States Code, schedule 
8, part I, subpart B, item 807.00, shall be obligated or expended--
        (1) to procure directly feasibility studies or prefeasibility 
    studies for, or project profiles of potential investment in, the 
    manufacture, for export to the United States or to third country 
    markets in direct competition with United States exports, of 
    import-sensitive articles as defined by section 503(c)(1) (A) and 
    (E) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 2463(c)(1) (A) and (E)); 
    or
        (2) to assist directly in the establishment of facilities 
    specifically designed for the manufacture, for export to the United 
    States or to third country markets in direct competition with 
    United States exports, of import-sensitive articles as defined in 
    section 503(c)(1) (A) and (E) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
    2463(c)(1) (A) and (E)).


                           SURPLUS COMMODITIES

    Sec. 514. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the International Development Association, the 
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the African Development Bank, and the African 
Development Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to 
oppose any assistance by these institutions, using funds appropriated 
or made available pursuant to this Act, for the production or 
extraction of any commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus 
on world markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                       NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

    Sec. 515. For the purposes of providing the Executive Branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Development Assistance Fund'', 
``Population, Development Assistance'', ``Development Fund for 
Africa'', ``International organizations and programs'', ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', ``International narcotics control'', ``Assistance 
for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', ``Assistance for the New 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Peacekeeping operations'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency 
for International Development'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency for 
International Development Office of Inspector General'', ``Anti-
terrorism assistance'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
``International military education and training'', ``Military-to-
Military Contact Program'', ``Inter-American Foundation'', ``African 
Development Foundation'', ``Peace Corps'', or ``Migration and refugee 
assistance'', shall be available for obligation for activities, 
programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, countries, or other 
operation not justified or in excess of the amount justified to the 
Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of these specific 
headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of 
Congress are previously notified fifteen days in advance: Provided, 
That the President shall not enter into any commitment of funds 
appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other than 
conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified 
to Congress or 20 per centum in excess of the quantities justified to 
Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified fifteen 
days in advance of such commitment: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or 
project under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
of less than 20 per centum of the amount previously justified to the 
Congress for obligation for such activity, program, or project for the 
current fiscal year: Provided further, That the requirements of this 
section or any similar provision of this Act requiring notification in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations may be waived if failure to do so would pose a 
substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided further, That in 
case of any such waiver, notification to the Congress, or the 
appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than three days after taking the 
action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


   limitation on availability of funds for international organizations 
                              and programs

    Sec. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this 
Act, none of the funds provided for ``International Organizations and 
Programs'' shall be available for the United States proportionate 
share, in accordance with section 307(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, for any programs identified in section 307, or for Libya, 
Iran, or, at the discretion of the President, Communist countries 
listed in section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended: Provided, That, subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act 
or any previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing, and related programs, which are returned 
or not made available for organizations and programs because of the 
implementation of this section or any similar provision of law, shall 
remain available for obligation through September 30, 1996.
    (b) The United States shall not make any voluntary or assessed 
contribution--
        (1) to any affiliated organization of the United Nations which 
    grants full membership as a state to any organization or group that 
    does not have the internationally recognized attributes of 
    statehood, or
        (2) to the United Nations, if the United Nations grants full 
    membership as a state in the United Nations to any organization or 
    group that does not have the internationally recognized attributes 
    of statehood,
during any period in which such membership is effective.


               ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL

    Sec. 517. The Congress finds that progress on the peace process in 
the Middle East is vitally important to United States security 
interests in the region. The Congress recognizes that, in fulfilling 
its obligations under the Treaty of Peace Between the Arab Republic of 
Egypt and the State of Israel, done at Washington on March 26, 1979, 
Israel incurred severe economic burdens. Furthermore, the Congress 
recognizes that an economically and militarily secure Israel serves the 
security interests of the United States, for a secure Israel is an 
Israel which has the incentive and confidence to continue pursuing the 
peace process. Therefore, the Congress declares that it is the policy 
and the intention of the United States that the funds provided in 
annual appropriations for the Economic Support Fund which are allocated 
to Israel shall not be less than the annual debt repayment (interest 
and principal) from Israel to the United States Government in 
recognition that such a principle serves United States interests in the 
region.


      PROHIBITION CONCERNING ABORTIONS AND INVOLUNTARY STERILIZATION

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations. The Congress reaffirms its 
commitments toP Population, Development Assistance and to the need for 
informedP voluntary family planning.


                          reporting requirement

    Sec. 519. The President shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the reports required by section 25(a)(1) of the Arms 
Export Control Act.


                    special notification requirements

    Sec. 520. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Indonesia, Liberia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, 
Rwanda, Sudan, or Zaire except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
That this section shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act to 
carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 that are made available for El Salvador and 
Nicaragua.


               DEFINITION OF PROGRAM, PROJECT, AND ACTIVITY

    Sec. 521. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the Appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all Appropriations and Authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as (1) 
justified to the Congress, or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within thirty days of enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


           family planning, child survival and aids activities

    Sec. 522. Up to $8,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for family planning, health, child survival, and AIDS, 
may be used to reimburse United States Government agencies, agencies of 
State governments, institutions of higher learning, and private and 
voluntary organizations for the full cost of individuals (including for 
the personal services of such individuals) detailed or assigned to, or 
contracted by, as the case may be, the Agency for International 
Development for the purpose of carrying out family planning activities, 
child survival activities and activities relating to research on, and 
the treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome in 
developing countries: Provided, That such individuals shall not be 
included within any personnel ceiling or personnel level, with regard 
to individuals detailed or assigned to the Agency for International 
Development prior to October 1, 1994, established pursuant to any 
provision of law or regulation applicable to any United States 
Government agency during the period of detail or assignment: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
for child survival activities or activities relating to research on, 
and the treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
may be made available notwithstanding any provision of law that 
restricts assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this Act that are made available for family planning 
activities may be made available notwithstanding section 512 of this 
Act and section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


        prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Iran, Syria, North 
Korea, or the People's Republic of China, unless the President of the 
United States certifies that the withholding of these funds is contrary 
to the national interest of the United States.


                            RECIPROCAL LEASING

    Sec. 524. Section 61(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended 
by striking out ``1994'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``1995''.


                 NOTIFICATION ON EXCESS DEFENSE EQUIPMENT

    Sec. 525. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as are 
other committees pursuant to subsection (c) of that section: Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such 
Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of 
such defense articles.


                        authorization requirement

    Sec. 526. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 
of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.
    (b) Section 13 of the Department of State Appropriations 
Authorization Act of 1973 is repealed.
    (c) The Secretary of the Treasury may, to fulfill commitments of 
the United States, (1) subscribe to and make payment for shares of the 
Inter-American Development Bank, make contributions to the Fund for 
Special Operations of that Bank, and vote for resolutions (including 
amendments to that Bank's constitutive agreement), all in connection 
with the eighth general increase in resources of that Bank; and (2) 
contribute to the Restructured Global Environment Facility under its 
Instrument, to the African Development Fund in connection with the 
seventh general replenishment of its resources, and to the Interest 
Subsidy Account of the successor to the Enhanced Structural Adjustment 
Facility of the International Monetary Fund. The amount authorized to 
be appropriated for payment for paid-in shares of the Inter-American 
Development Bank is limited to $76,832,001, the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for payment for callable shares of the Inter-American 
Development Bank is limited to $4,511,156,729, and the amount 
authorized to be appropriated for payment of the contribution to the 
Interest Subsidy Account of the successor to the Enhanced Structural 
Adjustment Facility of the International Monetary Fund is limited to 
$25,000,000. The amount to be paid in respect of each such contribution 
or subscription is authorized to be appropriated without fiscal year 
limitation. Each such subscription or contribution shall be effective 
only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    (d) Title XV of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 
U.S.C. 262o) is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 1502. MILITARY SPENDING BY RECIPIENT COUNTRIES; MILITARY 
INVOLVEMENT IN THE ECONOMIES OF RECIPIENT COUNTRIES.
    ``(a) Consideration of Commitment To Achieving Certain Goals.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
    the United States Executive Directors of the international 
    financial institutions (as defined in section 1701(c)(2)) to 
    promote growth in the international economy by taking into account, 
    when considering whether to support or oppose loan proposals at 
    these institutions, the extent to which the recipient government 
    has demonstrated a commitment to achieving the following goals:
            ``(A) to provide accurate and complete data on the annual 
        expenditures and receipts of the armed forces;
            ``(B) to establish good and publicly accountable 
        governance, including an end to excessive military involvement 
        in the economy; and
            ``(C) to make substantial reductions in excessive military 
        spending and forces.
    ``(b) Steps To Achieve Goals Required.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Directors of the 
international financial institutions (as so defined) to promote a 
policy at each institution under which--
        ``(1) the respective institution monitors closely and, through 
    regular policy consultations with recipient governments, seeks to 
    influence the composition of public expenditure in favor of funding 
    growth and development priorities and away from unproductive 
    expenditure, including excessive military expenditures;
        ``(2) the respective institution supports lending operations 
    which assist efforts of recipient governments to promote good 
    governance, including public participation, and reduce military 
    expenditures; and
        ``(3) the allocation of resources and the extension of credit 
    by the respective institution takes into account the performance of 
    recipient governments in the areas of good governance, ending 
    excessive military involvement in the economy and reducing 
    excessive military expenditures.''.
    (e) Title XVI of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 
U.S.C. 262p et seq.) is amended by redesignating section 1620 as 
section 1622 and by inserting after section 1619 the following:

``SEC. 1620. RESPECT FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLES.

    ``The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the United States 
Executive Directors of the international financial institutions (as 
defined in section 1701(c)(2)) and the United States representative to 
the council of the Global Environment Facility administered by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to use the voice 
and vote of the United States to bring about the creation and full 
implementation of policies designed to promote respect for and full 
protection of the territorial rights, traditional economies, cultural 
integrity, traditional knowledge and human rights of indigenous 
peoples.

``SEC. 1621. ENCOURAGEMENT OF FAIR LABOR PRACTICES.

    ``(a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the United States 
Executive Directors of the international financial institutions (as 
defined in section 1701(c)(2)) to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to urge the respective institution--
        ``(1) to adopt policies to encourage borrowing countries to 
    guarantee internationally recognized worker rights (within the 
    meaning of section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974) and to 
    include the status of such rights as an integral part of the 
    institution's policy dialogue with each borrowing country;
        ``(2) in developing the policies referred to in paragraph (1), 
    to use the relevant conventions of the International Labor 
    Organization, which have set forth, among other things, the right 
    of association, the right to organize and bargain collectively, a 
    prohibition on the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor, 
    and certain minimum labor standards that take into account 
    differences in development levels among nations including a minimum 
    age for the employment of children, acceptable conditions of work 
    with respect to minimum wages, hours of work, and occupational 
    safety and health; and
        ``(3) to establish formal procedures to screen projects and 
    programs funded by the institution for any negative impact in a 
    borrowing country on the rights referred to in paragraph (1).
    ``(b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee 
on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate by the end of each 
fiscal year a report on the extent to which each borrowing country 
guarantees internationally recognized worker rights to its labor force 
and on progress toward achieving each of the goals described in 
subsection (a).''.
    (f) The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 38. FOCUS ON LOW-INCOME AREAS OF LATIN AMERICA AND THE 
      CARIBBEAN.
    ``The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the United States 
Executive Director of the Bank to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to support an increased focus on the poorest countries in Latin 
America and the Caribbean, and on poorer areas of better off countries, 
and to support programs conducted by the Multilateral Investment Fund, 
particularly in targeting low-income countries and populations, working 
with nongovernmental organizations and training and assisting former 
combatants from civil conflicts in Latin America.''.

                            DEPLETED URANIUM

    Sec. 527. None of the funds provided in this or any other Act may 
be made available to facilitate in any way the sale of M-833 antitank 
shells or any comparable antitank shells containing a depleted uranium 
penetrating component to any country other than (1) countries which are 
members of NATO, (2) countries which have been designated as a major 
non-NATO ally for purposes of section 1105 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 or, (3) Taiwan: Provided, That 
funds may be made available to facilitate the sale of such shells 
notwithstanding the limitations of this section if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States.


    OPPOSITION TO ASSISTANCE TO TERRORIST COUNTRIES BY INTERNATIONAL 
                         FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

    Sec. 528. (a) Instructions for United States Executive Directors.--
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States 
Executive Director of each international financial institution 
designated in subsection (b), and the Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall instruct the United States Executive 
Director of the International Fund for Agriculture Development, to use 
the voice and vote of the United States to oppose any loan or other use 
of the funds of the respective institution to or for a country for 
which the Secretary of State has made a determination under section 
6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``international financial institution'' includes--
        (1) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
    the International Development Association, and the International 
    Monetary Fund; and
        (2) wherever applicable, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
    the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the 
    African Development Fund, and the European Bank for Reconstruction 
    and Development.


        Prohibition on Bilateral Assistance to Terrorist Countries

    Sec. 529. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for bilateral assistance under any heading of this Act and 
funds appropriated under any such heading in a provision of law enacted 
prior to enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
        (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
    group which has committed an act of international terrorism, or
        (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to a 
country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least fifteen days before 
the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.


                  commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 530. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification requirements of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel and Egypt and 
NATO and major non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing 
(including leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from 
United States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense 
Equipment (other than helicopters and other types of aircraft having 
possible civilian application), if the President determines that there 
are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for those 
defense articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by 
government-to-government sale under such Act.

                         competitive insurance

    Sec. 531. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, 
shall include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies 
have a fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is 
necessary or appropriate.


                   stingers in the persian gulf region

    Sec. 532. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms 
Export Control Act or chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961.


   prohibition on leveraging and diversion of united states assistance

    Sec. 533. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
provided to any foreign government (including any instrumentality or 
agency thereof), foreign person, or United States person in exchange 
for that foreign government or person undertaking any action which is, 
if carried out by the United States Government, a United States 
official or employee, expressly prohibited by a provision of United 
States law.
    (b) For the purposes of this section the term ``funds appropriated 
by this Act'' includes only (1) assistance of any kind under the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; and (2) credits, and guaranties under 
the Arms Export Control Act.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit--
        (1) the ability of the President, the Vice President, or any 
    official or employee of the United States to make statements or 
    otherwise express their views to any party on any subject;
        (2) the ability of an official or employee of the United States 
    to express the policies of the President; or
        (3) the ability of an official or employee of the United States 
    to communicate with any foreign country government, group or 
    individual, either directly or through a third party, with respect 
    to the prohibitions of this section including the reasons for such 
    prohibitions, and the actions, terms, or conditions which might 
    lead to the removal of the prohibitions of this section.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 534. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under the heading ``Agency for International Development'' and any 
interest earned on such investment may be for the purpose for which the 
assistance was provided to that organization.


                          location of stockpiles

    Sec. 535. Section 514(b)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
is amended by striking out ``$200,000,000 for stockpiles in Israel for 
fiscal year 1994'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``a total of 
$200,000,000 for stockpiles in Israel for fiscal years 1994 and 1995, 
up to $40,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in the Republic 
of Korea, and up to $10,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in 
Thailand for fiscal year 1995''.


                            separate accounts

    Sec. 536. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I (including the Philippines Multilateral 
Assistance Initiative) or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation 
of local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency 
for International Development shall--
        (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a separate 
    account established by that government;
        (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
    forth--
            (i) the amount of the local currencies to be generated, and
            (ii) the terms and conditions under which the currencies so 
        deposited may be utilized, consistent with this section; and
        (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
    responsibilities of the Agency for International Development and 
    that government to monitor and account for deposits into and 
    disbursements from the separate account.
    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local 
currencies, shall be used only--
        (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
    part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
            (i) project and sector assistance activities, or
            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
        (B) for the administrative requirements of the United States 
    Government.
    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that the 
equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2)(A) from the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 
of part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds 
which remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Conforming Amendments.--The provisions of this subsection shall 
supersede the tenth and eleventh provisos contained under the heading 
``Sub-Saharan Africa, Development Assistance'' as included in the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1989 and sections 531(d) and 609 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is 
made available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 
or 10 of part I (including the Philippines Multilateral Assistance 
Initiative) or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector assistance, 
that country shall be required to maintain such funds in a separate 
account and not commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the 
Committee of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (H. 
Report No. 98-1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least fifteen days prior to obligating any 
such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed 
description of how the funds proposed to be made available will be 
used, with a discussion of the United States interests that will be 
served by the assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of 
the economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


   compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 537. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, 
or while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, and the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.


          Compliance With United Nations Sanctions Against Iraq

    Sec. 538. (a) Denial of Assistance.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to carry out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part 
I, relating to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms 
Export Control Act may be used to provide assistance to any country 
that is not in compliance with the United Nations Security Council 
sanctions against Iraq, Serbia or Montenegro unless the President 
determines and so certifies to the Congress that--
        (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the United 
    States;
        (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people in 
    that country; or
        (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
    assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.
    (b) Import Sanctions.--If the President considers that the taking 
of such action would promote the effectiveness of the economic 
sanctions of the United Nations and the United States imposed with 
respect to Iraq, Serbia, or Montenegro, as the case may be and is 
consistent with the national interest, the President may prohibit, for 
such a period of time as he considers appropriate, the importation into 
the United States of any or all products of any foreign country that 
has not prohibited--
        (1) the importation of products of Iraq, Serbia, or Montenegro 
    into its customs territory, and
        (2) the export of its products to Iraq, Serbia, or Montenegro, 
    as the case may be.


                        pow/mia military drawdown

    Sec. 539. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
President may direct the drawdown, without reimbursement by the 
recipient, of defense articles from the stocks of the Department of 
Defense, defense services of the Department of Defense, and military 
education and training, of an aggregate value not to exceed $15,000,000 
in fiscal year 1995, as may be necessary to carry out subsection (b).
    (b) Such defense articles, services and training may be provided to 
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, under subsection (a) as the President 
determines are necessary to support efforts to locate and repatriate 
members of the United States Armed Forces and civilians employed 
directly or indirectly by the United States Government who remain 
unaccounted for from the Vietnam War, and to ensure the safety of 
United States Government personnel engaged in such cooperative efforts 
and to support United States Department of Defense-sponsored 
humanitarian projects associated with the POW/MIA efforts. Any aircraft 
shall be provided under this section only to Laos and only on a lease 
or loan basis, but may be provided at no cost notwithstanding section 
61 of the Arms Export Control Act and may be maintained with defense 
articles, services and training provided under this section.
    (c) The President shall, within sixty days of the end of any fiscal 
year in which the authority of subsection (a) is exercised, submit a 
report to the Congress which identifies the articles, services, and 
training drawn down under this section.
    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President such 
sums as may be necessary to reimburse the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or account for defense articles, defense services, and military 
education and training provided under this section.


                  mediterranean excess defense articles

    Sec. 540. During fiscal year 1995, the provisions of section 573(e) 
of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1990, shall be applicable, for the period specified 
therein, to excess defense articles made available under sections 516 
and 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                      priority delivery of equipment

    Sec. 541. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the delivery 
of excess defense articles that are to be transferred on a grant basis 
under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act to NATO allies and to 
major non-NATO allies on the southern and southeastern flank of NATO 
shall be given priority to the maximum extent feasible over the 
delivery of such excess defense articles to other countries.


                             israel drawdown

    Sec. 542. Section 599B(a) of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 (as amended by 
Public Law 102-145, as amended, and Public Law 102-391), is further 
amended--
        (a) by striking out ``fiscal year 1994'' and inserting in lieu 
    thereof ``fiscal year 1995'';
        (b) by striking out ``Appropriations Act, 1994'' and inserting 
    in lieu thereof ``Appropriations Act, 1995''; and
        (c) by striking out ``$700,000,000'' and inserting in lieu 
    thereof ``$775,000,000''.


                           cash flow financing

    Sec. 543. For each country that has been approved for cash flow 
financing (as defined in section 25(d) of the Arms Export Control Act, 
as added by section 112(b) of Public Law 99-83) under the Foreign 
Military Financing Program, any Letter of Offer and Acceptance or other 
purchase agreement, or any amendment thereto, for a procurement in 
excess of $100,000,000 that is to be financed in whole or in part with 
funds made available under this Act shall be submitted through the 
regular notification procedures to the Committees on Appropriations.


   authorities for the peace corps, the inter-american foundation and 
                   the african development foundation

    Sec. 544. Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions of 
this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act, or the African Development Foundation 
Act. The appropriate agency shall promptly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations whenever it is conducting activities or is proposing to 
conduct activities in a country for which assistance is prohibited.


                   impact on jobs in the United States

    Sec. 545. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
        (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise currently 
    located in the United States for the purpose of inducing such an 
    enterprise to relocate outside the United States if such incentive 
    or inducement is likely to reduce the number of employees of such 
    business enterprise in the United States because United States 
    production is being replaced by such enterprise outside the United 
    States;
        (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or developing in 
    a foreign country any export processing zone or designated area in 
    which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, and safety laws of that 
    country do not apply, in part or in whole, to activities carried 
    out within that zone or area, unless the President determines and 
    certifies that such assistance is not likely to cause a loss of 
    jobs within the United States; or
        (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes to 
    the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, as 
    defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of workers 
    in the recipient country, including any designated zone or area in 
    that country: Provided, That in recognition that the application of 
    this subsection should be commensurate with the level of 
    development of the recipient country and sector, the provisions of 
    this subsection shall not preclude assistance for the informal 
    sector in such country, micro and small-scale enterprise, and 
    smallholder agriculture.


                  authority to assist bosnia-hercegovina

    Sec. 546. (a) Congress finds as follows:
        (1) The United Nations has imposed an embargo on the transfer 
    of arms to any country on the territory of the former Yugoslavia.
        (2) The federated states of Serbia and Montenegro have a large 
    supply of military equipment and ammunition and the Serbian forces 
    fighting the government of Bosnia-Hercegovina have more than one 
    thousand battle tanks, armored vehicles, and artillery pieces.
        (3) Because the United Nations arms embargo is serving to 
    sustain the military advantage of the aggressor, the United Nations 
    should exempt the government of Bosnia-Hercegovina from its 
    embargo.
    (b) Pursuant to a lifting of the United Nations arms embargo, or to 
a unilateral lifting of the arms embargo by the President of the United 
States, against Bosnia-Hercegovina, the President is authorized to 
transfer, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, to the government of that nation, without 
reimbursement, defense articles from the stocks of the Department of 
Defense and defense services of the Department of Defense of an 
aggregate value not to exceed $50,000,000 in fiscal year 1995: 
Provided, That the President certifies in a timely fashion to the 
Congress that--
        (1) the transfer of such articles would assist that nation in 
    self-defense and thereby promote the security and stability of the 
    region; and
        (2) United States allies are prepared to join in such a 
    military assistance effort.
    (c) Within 60 days of any transfer under the authority provided in 
subsection (b), and every 60 days thereafter, the President shall 
report in writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 
the President pro tempore of the Senate concerning the articles 
transferred and the disposition thereof.
    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President such 
sums as may be necessary to reimburse the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or account for defense articles provided under this section.

                          special authorities

    Sec. 547. (a) Funds appropriated in title II of this Act that are 
made available for Haiti, Afghanistan, Lebanon, and Cambodia, and for 
victims of war, displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian 
assistance for Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, Croatia, and Kosova, may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided, That any such 
funds that are made available for Cambodia shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
section 906 of the International Security and Development Cooperation 
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the President shall terminate 
assistance to any country or organization that he determines is 
cooperating, tactically or strategically, with the Khmer Rouge in their 
military operations.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and energy programs aimed at reducing 
emissions of greenhouse gases with regard to the key countries in which 
deforestation and energy policy would make a significant contribution 
to global warming, and for the purpose of supporting biodiversity 
conservation activities: Provided, That such assistance shall be 
subject to sections 116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961.
    (c) During fiscal year 1995, the President may use up to 
$50,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding the funding ceiling contained 
in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) The Agency for International Development may employ personal 
services contractors, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purpose of administering programs for the West Bank and Gaza.


         policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 548. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) since 1948 the Arab countries have maintained a primary 
    boycott against Israel, refusing to do business with Israel;
        (2) since the early 1950s the Arab League has maintained a 
    secondary and tertiary boycott against American and other companies 
    that have commercial ties with Israel;
        (3) the boycott seeks to coerce American firms by blacklisting 
    those that do business with Israel and harm America's 
    competitiveness;
        (4) the United States has a longstanding policy opposing the 
    Arab League boycott and United States law prohibits American firms 
    from providing information to Arab countries to demonstrate 
    compliance with the boycott;
        (5) with real progress being made in the Middle East peace 
    process and the serious confidence-building measures taken by the 
    State of Israel an end to the Arab boycott of Israel and of 
    American companies that have commercial ties with Israel is long 
    overdue and would represent a significant confidence-building 
    measure; and
        (6) in the interest of Middle East peace and free commerce, the 
    President must take more concrete steps to press the Arab states to 
    end their practice of blacklisting and boycotting American 
    companies that have trade ties with Israel.
    (b) Policy.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and publicly 
    renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the secondary and 
    tertiary boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
    Israel; and
        (2) the President should--
            (A) take more concrete steps to encourage vigorously Arab 
        League countries to renounce publicly the primary boycotts of 
        Israel and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American 
        firms that have commercial relations with Israel as a 
        confidence-building measure;
            (B) take into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms that have 
        commercial relations with Israel when determining whether to 
        sell weapons to said country;
            (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being taken by 
        the President to bring about a public renunciation of the Arab 
        primary boycott of Israel and the secondary and tertiary 
        boycotts of American firms that have commercial relations with 
        Israel; and
            (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of the United 
        States to enact laws prohibiting businesses from complying with 
        the boycott and penalizing businesses that do comply.


                        ANTI-NARCOTICS ACTIVITIES

    Sec. 549. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided to 
strengthen the administration of justice in countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean in accordance with the provisions of section 534 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that programs to enhance 
protection of participants in judicial cases may be conducted 
notwithstanding section 660 of that Act.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'', notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, up to $3,000,000 may be made available, subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, for technical assistance, training, and commodities 
with the objective of creating a professional civilian police force for 
Panama, and for programs to improve penal institutions and the 
rehabiliation of offenders in Panama (which programs may be conducted 
other than through multilateral or regional institutions), except that 
such technical assistance shall not include more than $1,000,000 for 
the procurement of equipment for law enforcement purposes, and shall 
not include lethal equipment.
    (c) Funds made available pursuant to this section may be made 
available notwithstanding the third sentence of section 534(e) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Funds made available pursuant to 
subsection (a) for Bolivia, Colombia and Peru and subsection (b) may be 
made available notwithstanding section 534(c) and the second sentence 
of section 534(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                       ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE

    Sec. 550. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 and 
10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the 
President shall take into consideration, in any case in which a 
restriction on assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, 
whether assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental 
organizations is in the national interest of the United States: 
Provided further, That before using the authority of this subsection to 
furnish assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental 
organizations, the President shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations under the Pregular notification procedures of those 
committees, including a description of the program to be assisted, the 
assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such 
assistance: Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
or involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 1995, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under titles I 
and II of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title 
I of such Act and made available pursuant to this subsection may be 
obligated or expended except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
        (1) with respect to section 529 of this Act or any comparable 
    provision of law prohibiting assistance to countries that support 
    international terrorism; or
        (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
    of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance 
    to countries that violate internationally recognized human rights.

                                EARMARKS

    Sec. 551. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked 
may be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States, 
the President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other 
Act shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the 
Administrator of such agency determines and reports promptly to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a 
country or a significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that 
such earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.


                          CEILINGS AND EARMARKS

    Sec. 552. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so 
directs.

                        EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES

    Sec. 553. (a) The authority of section 519 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used in fiscal year 1995 to 
provide nonlethal excess defense articles to countries for which United 
States foreign assistance has been requested and for which receipt of 
such articles was separately justified for the fiscal year, without 
regard to the restrictions in subsection (a) of section 519.
    (b) The authority of section 518 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 may be exercised notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (c) The authority of section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used in fiscal year 1995 to provide defense 
articles to Jordan, except that the provision of such defense articles 
shall be subject to section 538 of this Act.


                  PROHIBITION ON PUBLICITY OR PROPAGANDA

    Sec. 554. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of enactment of this Act by the 
Congress.


                        DISADVANTAGED ENTERPRISES

    Sec. 555. (a) Except to the extent that the Administrator of the 
Agency for International Development determines otherwise, not less 
than 10 percent of the aggregate amount made available for the current 
fiscal year for the ``Development Assistance Fund'', ``Population, 
Development Assistance'', and the ``Development Fund for Africa'' shall 
be made available only for activities of United States organizations 
and individuals that are--
        (1) business concerns owned and controlled by socially and 
    economically disadvantaged individuals,
        (2) historically black colleges and universities,
        (3) colleges and universities having a student body in which 
    more than 40 per centum of the students are Hispanic American, and
        (4) private voluntary organizations which are controlled by 
    individuals who are socially and economically disadvantaged.
    (b)(1) In addition to other actions taken to carry out this 
section, the actions described in paragraphs (2) through (5) shall be 
taken with respect to development assistance and assistance for sub-
Saharan Africa for the current fiscal year.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in order to achieve 
the goals of this section, the Administrator--
        (A) to the maximum extent practicable, shall utilize the 
    authority of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    637(a));
        (B) to the maximum extent practicable, shall enter into 
    contracts with small business concerns owned and controlled by 
    socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and 
    organizations contained in paragraphs (2) through (4) of subsection 
    (a)--
            (i) using less than full and open competitive procedures 
        under such terms and conditions as the Administrator deems 
        appropriate, and
            (ii) using an administrative system for justifications and 
        approvals that, in the Administrator's discretion, may best 
        achieve the purpose of this section; and
        (C) shall issue regulations to require that any contract in 
    excess of $500,000 contain a provision requiring that no less than 
    10 per centum of the dollar value of the contract be subcontracted 
    to entities described in subsection (a), except--
            (i) to the extent the Administrator determines otherwise on 
        a case-by-case or category-of-contract basis; and
            (ii) this subparagraph does not apply to any prime 
        contractor that is an entity described in subsection (a).
    (3) Each person with contracting authority who is attached to the 
Agency's headquarters in Washington, as well as all Agency missions and 
regional offices, shall notify the Agency's Office of Small and 
Disadvantaged Business Utilization at least seven business days before 
advertising a contract in excess of $100,000, except to the extent that 
the Administrator determines otherwise on a case-by-case or category-
of-contract basis.
    (4) The Administrator shall include, as part of the performance 
evaluation of any mission director of the agency, the mission 
director's efforts to carry out this section.
    (5) The Administrator shall submit to the Congress annual reports 
on the implementation of this section. Each such report shall specify 
the number and dollar value or amount (as the case may be) of prime 
contracts, subcontracts, grants, and cooperative agreements awarded to 
entities described in subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year.
    (c) As used in this section, the term ``socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals'' has the same meaning that term is given for 
purposes of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, except that the 
term includes women.


                        USE OF AMERICAN RESOURCES

    Sec. 556. To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided under 
this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.


                 limitations on assistance for nicaragua

    Sec. 557. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'' may only be made available to the Government 
of Nicaragua upon the notification, in writing, by the Secretary of 
State to the appropriate committees that he has determined that 
significant and tangible progress is being made by the Government of 
Nicaragua toward--
        (1) the prosecution of any individual identified as part of a 
    terrorist/kidnapping ring by the investigation of issues raised by 
    the discovery, after the May 23, 1993, explosion in Managua, of 
    weapons caches, false passports, identity papers and other 
    documents, suggesting the existence of such a ring, including all 
    government officials (including any members of the armed forces or 
    security forces);
        (2) the resolution of expropriation claims and the effective 
    compensation of legitimate claims;
        (3) the timely implementation of recommendations made by the 
    Tripartite Commission as it undertakes to review and identify those 
    responsible for gross human rights violations, including the 
    expeditious prosecution of individuals identified by the commission 
    in connection with such violations;
        (4) the enactment into law of legislation to reform the 
    Nicaraguan military and security forces in order to guarantee 
    civilian control over the armed forces;
        (5) the establishment of civilian control over the police, and 
    the independence of the police from the military; and
        (6) the effective reform of the Nicaraguan judicial system.
    (b) The notification pursuant to subsection (a) above shall include 
a detailed listing of the tangible evidence that forms the basis for 
such determination.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``appropriate com- 
Pmittees'' means the Committees on Foreign Relations and Appropriations 
of the Senate and Committees on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives.


            prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 558. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations.


                           consulting services

    Sec. 559. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing 
law.


              private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 560. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for 
International Development, nor shall any of the funds appropriated by 
this Act be made available to any private voluntary organization which 
is not registered with the Agency for International Development.


                   special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 561. (a) Authority To Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
        (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961; or
        (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms Export 
    Control Act.
    (b) Limitations.--
        (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised 
    only to implement multilateral official debt relief and referendum 
    agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club Agreed Minutes''.
        (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised 
    only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided in advance by 
    appropriations Acts.
        (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised 
    only with respect to countries with heavy debt burdens that are 
    eligible to borrow from the International Development Association, 
    but not from the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
    Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
        (1) does not have an excessive level of military expenditures;
        (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
    international terrorism;
        (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
    control matters;
        (4) (including its military or other security forces) does not 
    engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
    internationally recognized human rights; and
        (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the application 
    of section 527 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
    Years 1994 and 1995.
    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection 
(a) may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Debt Restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for 
purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The 
authority provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding 
section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                                guarantees

    Sec. 562. Section 251(b)(2)(G) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by striking ``1994'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``1994 and 1995'' in both places that this 
appears.


   PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THAT EXPORT LETHAL 
   MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO COUNTRIES SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM

    Sec. 563. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal 
military equipment provided under a contract entered into after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of 
the United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.


  withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 564. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a 
foreign country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an 
amount equivalent to 110 percent of the total unpaid fully adjudicated 
parking fines and penalties owed to the District of Columbia by such 
country as of the date of enactment of this Act shall be withheld from 
obligation for such country until the Secretary of State certifies and 
reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that 
such fines and penalties are fully paid to the government of the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives.


     limitation on assistance for the plo for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 565. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 583(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1994 
(part E of title V of Public Law 103-236) or any other legislation to 
suspend or make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 and that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the 
President fails to make the certification under section 583(b)(2) of 
the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act or to suspend the prohibition 
under other legislation, funds appropriated by this Act may not be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza.


                   facilitate peace in the middle east

    Sec. 565A. Additional Congressional Expectation.--Section 583(b)(5) 
of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (D) and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) amending its National Covenant to eliminate all 
        references calling for the destruction of Israel.''.


                          procurement reduction

    Sec. 566. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the Agency 
for International Development during fiscal year 1995, $1,598,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development 
shall allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the 
Agency's accounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses. Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related 
expenses in each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated 
to such account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in section 403(a)(2) of title 41, United States 
Code.


               implementation of world bank recommendations

    Sec. 567. (a) Funds appropriated by title I of this Act under the 
headings ``Contribution to the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development'' and ``Contribution to the International Development 
Association'' shall be available for payment to such institutions as 
follows:
        (1) Fifty percent of the funds appropriated under each such 
    heading shall be made available prior to April 1, 1995. Fifty 
    percent of the funds appropriated under each such heading shall be 
    made available on April 1, 1995, or thereafter, only if the 
    Secretary of the Treasury makes the determinations (and so reports 
    to the Committees on Appropriations) described in paragraph (2) of 
    this subsection at any time on or after that date.
        (2) The determinations referred to in paragraph (1) are 
    determinations that the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
    Development is--
            (A) implementing the recommendations contained in ``Next 
        Steps'', the follow-up to the Wapenhans Report;
            (B) implementing the action plan contained in chapter 8 of 
        its April 8, 1994, resettlement review entitled ``Resettlement 
        and Development''; and
            (C) implementing the Bank's procedures on Disclosure of 
        Operational Information issued in September 1993.
    (b) Funds appropriated by title I of this Act under the heading 
``Contribution to the International Finance Corporation'' shall be 
available for payment to such institution as follows:
        (1) Fifty percent of the funds appropriated under such heading 
    shall be made available prior to April 1, 1995. Fifty percent of 
    the funds appropriated under such heading shall be made available 
    on or after April 1, 1995, only if the Secretary of the Treasury 
    makes the determination (and so reports to the Committees on 
    Appropriations) described in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
        (2) The determination referred to in paragraph (1) is a 
    determination that the International Finance Corporation is 
    pursuing reforms comparable to those adopted by the International 
    Bank for Reconstruction and Development regarding the environment, 
    information disclosure, and resettlement.


             purchase of american-made equipment and products

    Sec. 568. (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress 
that, to the greatest extent practicable, all equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-
made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency shall provide, to the 
greatest extent practicable, to such entity notice consistent with 
subsection (a) and section 604(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.


               west bank and gaza economic development fund

    Sec. 569. Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $20,000,000 should be made 
available to support the creation and expansion of small and medium-
sized businesses, including agricultural enterprises, in the West Bank 
and Gaza. All or any part of such funds may be used for the subsidy 
cost of direct loans and loan guarantees as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Funds made available under this 
heading shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.


   agricultural aid to the new independent states of the former soviet 
                                 union

    Sec. 570. Of the funds appropriated by title II of this Act under 
the heading ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former 
Soviet Union'' up to $50,000,000 should be made available only for 
provision of United States agricultural commodities to address the food 
and nutrition needs of the people of the new independent states of the 
former Soviet Union: Provided, That in providing assistance under this 
section, primary emphasis shall be given to meeting the food and 
nutrition needs of children and pregnant and post-partum women: 
Provided further, That funds made available for the purposes of this 
section may be used for transportation of United States agricultural 
commodities provided under this section: Provided further, That the 
President may enter into agreements with the governments of the new 
independent states and nongovernmental organizations to provide for the 
sale of any part of the United States agricultural commodities in the 
new independent states for local currencies: Provided further, That any 
such local currencies shall be used in the new independent states to 
process, transport, store, distribute or otherwise enhance the 
effectiveness of the use of United States agricultural commodities 
provided under this section, and to support agricultural and rural 
development activities.


                  export financing transfer authorities

    Sec. 571. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation other than 
for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 1995 for 
programs under title IV of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs and activities 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 25 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That 
the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That $12,000,000 shall be immediately transferred from funds 
available to the Export-Import Bank for fiscal year 1994 to the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation, and $1,000,000 shall be 
immediately transferred from funds available to the Export-Import Bank 
for fiscal year 1994 to the Trade and Development Agency: Provided 
further, That the provisions of the previous proviso shall be effective 
on the date of enactment of this Act.

                                 incae

    Sec. 572. The Government of Nicaragua may assume the obligation of 
the Central American Institute of Business Administration (INCAE) to 
make payment to the United States under a loan made to INCAE pursuant 
to an Alliance for Progress Loan Agreement dated April 25, 1972: 
Provided, That such payment shall be for the cost, as defined in 
section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990, of such obligation 
and shall relieve INCAE of any further liability to the United States 
for payment of interest and principal under such loan notwithstanding 
section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                                 mongolia

    Sec. 573. Section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is 
amended by striking ``Mongolian People's Republic.'' from the list 
contained therein.


                  report on compliance with commitments

    Sec. 574. Section 804(b) of title VIII of Public Law 101-246 (PLO 
Commitments Compliance Act of 1989) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (9) by striking ``; and'' and inserting in 
    lieu thereof ``;'';
        (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (10) and 
    inserting in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding the following new paragraph:
        ``(11) measures taken by the PLO to prevent acts of terrorism, 
    crime and hostilities and to legally punish offenders, as called 
    for in the Gaza-Jericho agreement of May 4, 1994.''.


                           war crimes tribunals

    Sec. 575. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the authority of section 552(c) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to provide 
up to $25,000,000 of commodities and services to the United Nations War 
Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former Yugoslavia by the 
United Nations Security Council or such other tribunals or commissions 
as the Council may establish to deal with such violations, without 
regard to the ceiling limitation contained in paragraph (2) thereof: 
Provided, That the determination required under this section shall be 
in lieu of any determinations otherwise required under section 552(c):  
Provided further, That 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations describing the steps the 
United States Government is taking to collect information regarding 
allegations of genocide or other violations of Pinternational law in 
the former Yugoslavia and to furnish that information to the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.


          DONATION OF SURPLUS AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES TO POLAND

    Sec. 576. (a) Extension of Authorization.--Section 2223(a) of the 
American Aid to Poland Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1431 note) is amended by--
        (1) inserting ``if the Secretary of Agriculture determines for 
    each fiscal year that (1) a donation under this section would not 
    limit the Secretary's ability to meet urgent humanitarian needs for 
    agricultural commodities, and (2) such donation would not cause a 
    reduction in the price of the same or similar agricultural 
    commodities produced in Poland'' after ``Notwithstanding any other 
    provision of law,''; and
        (2) striking ``1988 through 1992'' and inserting in lieu 
    thereof ``1995 through 1999''.
    (b) Definition of Eligible Commodities.--Section 2223(b)(1) of that 
Act is amended by inserting ``, soybeans, and soybean products'' after 
``feed grains''.
    (c) Eligible Activities.--Section 416(b)(7)(D)(ii) of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)(7)(D)(ii)) is amended in the 
third sentence--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subclause (II);
        (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
    and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
        ``(IV) the Polish Catholic Episcopate's Rural Water Supply 
    Foundation.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect October 1, 1994.


                    nonlethal excess defense articles

    Sec. 577. Notwithstanding section 519(f) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, during fiscal year 1995, funds available to the Department 
of Defense may be expended for crating, packing, handling and 
transportation of nonlethal excess defense articles transferred under 
the authority of section 519 to Albania.


                                landmines

    Sec. 578. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, demining 
equipment available to any department or agency and used in support of 
the clearing of landmines for humanitarian purposes may be disposed of 
on a grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and 
conditions as the President may prescribe.


                PROHIBITION ON PAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES

    Sec. 579. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the heading ``international military 
education and training'' or ``foreign military financing program'' for 
Informational Program activities may be obligated or expended to pay 
for--
        (1) alcoholic beverages;
        (2) food (other than food provided at a military installation) 
    not provided in conjunction with Informational Program trips where 
    students do not stay at a military installation; or
        (3) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
    substantially of a recreational character, including entrance fees 
    at sporting events and amusement parks.


               EMERGENCY PROJECTS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

    Sec. 580. Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less than 
$10,000,000 should be available only for emergency winterization and 
rehabilitation projects and for the reestablishment of essential 
services in Bosnia and Herzegovina.


            HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE FOR BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

    Sec. 581. Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less than 
$5,000,000 should be available only for medical equipment, medical 
supplies, and medicine to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for the repair 
and reconstruction of hospitals, clinics, and medical facilities in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.


                                Indonesia

    Sec. 582. The United States shall continue to refrain from selling 
or licensing for export to the Government of Indonesia defense articles 
such as small or light arms and crowd control items until the Secretary 
of State determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
that there has been significant progress made on human rights in East 
Timor and elsewhere in Indonesia, including in such areas as--
        (1) complying with the recommendations in the United Nations 
    Special Rapporteur's January 1992 report and the March 1993 
    recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Commission;
        (2) significantly reducing Indonesia's troop presence in East 
    Timor; and
        (3) participating constructively in the United Nations 
    Secretary General's efforts to resolve the status of East Timor.


    report on the salaries and benefits of the imf and the world bank

    Sec. 583. The Comptroller General shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the following--
        (1) a review of the existing salaries and benefits of employees 
    of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for 
    Reconstruction and Development; and
        (2) a review of all benefits paid to dependents of Fund and 
    Bank employees.
Such report shall include a comparison of the salaries and benefits 
paid to employees and dependents of the Fund and the Bank with salaries 
and benefits paid to employees holding comparable positions in the 
public and private sectors in member countries and in the international 
sector.


                         baltic troop withdrawal

    Sec. 584. (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act (other than funds to carry out 
humanitarian assistance) may be available in any fiscal year for Russia 
unless the President has certified to the Congress not more than six 
months in advance of the obligation or expenditure of such funds that 
the Government of Russia and the Governments of Latvia and Estonia have 
established a timetable for the withdrawal of the armed forces of 
Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, and all parties are 
complying with such timetable.
    (b) Subsection (a) does not apply if the President determines that 
the provision of funds to the Government of Russia is in the national 
security interest of the United States.


            restrictions concerning the Palestinian authority

    Sec. 585. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office 
of any department or agency of the United States Government for the 
purpose of conducting official United States Government business with 
the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration 
of Principles: Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem.
    (b) Meetings between officers and employees of the United States 
and officials of the Palestinian Authority, or any successor 
Palestinian governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration 
of Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with such authority should continue to take place 
in locations other than Jerusalem. As has been true in the past, 
officers and employees of the United States Government may continue to 
meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians (including those 
who now occupy positions in the Palestinian Authority), have social 
contacts, and have incidental discussions.


                report on biological and chemical weapons

    Sec. 586. The President shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, not later than January 30, 1995, on whether or not 
Russia has demonstrated a commitment to comply with the Convention on 
the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of 
Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and, upon Russian 
ratification and entry into force, the Convention on the Prohibition of 
the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and on Their Destruction, and the Wyoming ``Memorandum of Understanding 
Regarding a Bilateral Verification Experiment and Data Exchange Related 
to Prohibition of Chemical Weapons''.
    Titles I through V may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1995''.

         TITLE VI--FISCAL YEAR 1994 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:


                   funds appropriated to the president

                          debt relief for jordan

    (a) Authority To Reduce Debt.--
        (1) Authority.--For fiscal year 1994 and thereafter, the 
    President is authorized to reduce or cancel amounts owed to the 
    United States or any agency of the United States by the Hashemite 
    Kingdom of Jordan as a result of loans originally made or credits 
    originally extended by the United States or any agency of the 
    United States before January 1, 1994.
        (2) Appropriations requirement.--The authority provided by this 
    section may be exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as 
    is provided in advance by appropriations Acts.
        (3) Certain prohibitions inapplicable.--The authority of this 
    section may be exercised notwithstanding section 620(r) of the 
    Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, section 321 of the 
    International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975, or 
    similar provisions of law. In addition, a reduction of debt 
    pursuant to this section shall not be considered assistance for 
    purposes of any provision of law limiting assistance to a country.
    (b) Appropriations.--
        (1) Appropriations.--For the cost of modifying direct loans, as 
    defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, for 
    Jordan, in accordance with the authority contained in this section, 
    $99,000,000 is appropriated, to remain available until September 
    30, 1994.
        (2) Fiscal year 1994.--For fiscal year 1994--
            (A) funds appropriated under this section may be used only 
        for the cost of modifying direct loans entered into under 
        programs administered by the Agency for International 
        Development; and
            (B) such funds may be used to reduce or cancel not to 
        exceed $220,000,000 of the amounts owed pursuant to such loans.

                  Agency for International Development


                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended, for international 
disaster relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant 
to section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended: 
Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          Department of State


      united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $30,000,000: Provided, That such funds may 
be made available to respond to the current Rwandan refugee crisis if 
the President determines that it is in the national interest to do so: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    This title may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1994''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







       Vice President of the United States and President of the Senate.