[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1025 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1025
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for a waiting period before the purchase of a handgun, and 
for the establishment of a national instant criminal background check 
system to be contacted by firearms dealers before the transfer of any 
firearm.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
                     TITLE I--BRADY HANDGUN CONTROL

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act''.
    SEC. 102. FEDERAL FIREARMS LICENSEE REQUIRED TO CONDUCT CRIMINAL 
      BACKGROUND CHECK BEFORE TRANSFER OF FIREARM TO NON-LICENSEE.
    (a) Interim Provision.--
        (1) In general.--Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(s)(1) Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this subsection and ending on the day before the date that 
is 60 months after such date of enactment, it shall be unlawful for any 
licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer to sell, 
deliver, or transfer a handgun to an individual who is not licensed 
under section 923, unless--
        ``(A) after the most recent proposal of such transfer by the 
    transferee--
            ``(i) the transferor has--
                ``(I) received from the transferee a statement of the 
            transferee containing the information described in paragraph 
            (3);
                ``(II) verified the identity of the transferee by 
            examining the identification document presented;
                ``(III) within 1 day after the transferee furnishes the 
            statement, provided notice of the contents of the statement 
            to the chief law enforcement officer of the place of 
            residence of the transferee; and
                ``(IV) within 1 day after the transferee furnishes the 
            statement, transmitted a copy of the statementP
            to the chief law enforcement officer of the place of 
            residence of the transferee; and
            ``(ii)(I) 5 business days (meaning days on which State 
        offices are open) have elapsed from the date the transferor 
        furnished notice of the contents of the statement to the chief 
        law enforcement officer, during which period the transferor has 
        not received information from the chief law enforcement officer 
        that receipt or possession of the handgun by the transferee 
        would be in violation of Federal, State, or local law; or
            ``(II) the transferor has received notice from the chief law 
        enforcement officer that the officer has no information 
        indicating that receipt or possession of the handgun by the 
        transferee would violate Federal, State, or local law;
        ``(B) the transferee has presented to the transferor a written 
    statement, issued by the chief law enforcement officer of the place 
    of residence of the transferee during the 10-day period ending on 
    the date of the most recent proposal of such transfer by the 
    transferee, stating that the transferee requires access to a handgun 
    because of a threat to the life of the transferee or of any member 
    of the household of the transferee;
        ``(C)(i) the transferee has presented to the transferor a permit 
    that--
            ``(I) allows the transferee to possess or acquire a handgun; 
        and
            ``(II) was issued not more than 5 years earlier by the State 
        in which the transfer is to take place; and
        ``(ii) the law of the State provides that such a permit is to be 
    issued only after an authorized government official has verified 
    that the information available to such official does not indicate 
    that possession of a handgun by the transferee would be in violation 
    of the law;
        ``(D) the law of the State requires that, before any licensed 
    importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer completes the 
    transfer of a handgun to an individual who is not licensed under 
    section 923, an authorized government official verify that the 
    information available to such official does not indicate that 
    possession of a handgun by the transferee would be in violation of 
    law;
        ``(E) the Secretary has approved the transfer under section 5812 
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
        ``(F) on application of the transferor, the Secretary has 
    certified that compliance with subparagraph (A)(i)(III) is 
    impracticable because--
            ``(i) the ratio of the number of law enforcement officers of 
        the State in which the transfer is to occur to the number of 
        square miles of land area of the State does not exceed 0.0025;
            ``(ii) the business premises of the transferor at which the 
        transfer is to occur are extremely remote in relation to the 
        chief law enforcement officer; and
            ``(iii) there is an absence of telecommunications facilities 
        in the geographical area in which the business premises are 
        located.
    ``(2) A chief law enforcement officer to whom a transferor has 
provided notice pursuant to paragraph (1)(A)(i)(III) shall make a 
reasonable effort to ascertain within 5 business days whether receipt or 
possession would be in violation of the law, including research in 
whatever State and local recordkeeping systems are available and in a 
national system designated by the Attorney General.
    ``(3) The statement referred to in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I) shall 
contain only--
        ``(A) the name, address, and date of birth appearing on a valid 
    identification document (as defined in section 1028(d)(1)) of the 
    transferee containing a photograph of the transferee and a 
    description of the identification used;
        ``(B) a statement that the transferee--
            ``(i) is not under indictment for, and has not been 
        convicted in any court of, a crime punishable by imprisonment 
        for a term exceeding 1 year;
            ``(ii) is not a fugitive from justice;
            ``(iii) is not an unlawful user of or addicted to any 
        controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the 
        Controlled Substances Act);
            ``(iv) has not been adjudicated as a mental defective or 
        been committed to a mental institution;
            ``(v) is not an alien who is illegally or unlawfully in the 
        United States;
            ``(vi) has not been discharged from the Armed Forces under 
        dishonorable conditions; and
            ``(vii) is not a person who, having been a citizen of the 
        United States, has renounced such citizenship;
        ``(C) the date the statement is made; and
        ``(D) notice that the transferee intends to obtain a handgun 
    from the transferor.
    ``(4) Any transferor of a handgun who, after such transfer, receives 
a report from a chief law enforcement officer containing information 
that receipt or possession of the handgun by the transferee violates 
Federal, State, or local law shall, within 1 business day after receipt 
of such request, communicate any information related to the transfer 
that the transferor has about the transfer and the transferee to--
        ``(A) the chief law enforcement officer of the place of business 
    of the transferor; and
        ``(B) the chief law enforcement officer of the place of 
    residence of the transferee.
    ``(5) Any transferor who receives information, not otherwise 
available to the public, in a report under this subsection shall not 
disclose such information except to the transferee, to law enforcement 
authorities, or pursuant to the direction of a court of law.
    ``(6)(A) Any transferor who sells, delivers, or otherwise transfers 
a handgun to a transferee shall retain the copy of the statement of the 
transferee with respect to the handgun transaction, and shall retain 
evidence that the transferor has complied with subclauses (III) and (IV) 
of paragraph (1)(A)(i) with respect to the statement.
    ``(B) Unless the chief law enforcement officer to whom a statement 
is transmitted under paragraph (1)(A)(i)(IV) determines that a 
transaction would violate Federal, State, or local law--
        ``(i) the officer shall, within 20 business days after the date 
    the transferee made the statement on the basis of which the notice 
    was provided, destroy the statement, any record containing 
    information derived from the statement, and any record created as a 
    result of the notice required by paragraph (1)(A)(i)(III);
        ``(ii) the information contained in the statement shall not be 
    conveyed to any person except a person who has a need to know in 
    order to carry out this subsection; and
        ``(iii) the information contained in the statement shall not be 
    used for any purpose other than to carry out this subsection.
    ``(C) If a chief law enforcement officer determines that an 
individual is ineligible to receive a handgun and the individual 
requests the officer to provide the reason for such determination, the 
officer shall provide such reasons to the individual in writing within 
20 business days after receipt of the request.
    ``(7) A chief law enforcement officer or other person responsible 
for providing criminal history background information pursuant to this 
subsection shall not be liable in an action at law for damages--
        ``(A) for failure to prevent the sale or transfer of a handgun 
    to a person whose receipt or possession of the handgun is unlawful 
    under this section; or
        ``(B) for preventing such a sale or transfer to a person who may 
    lawfully receive or possess a handgun.
    ``(8) For purposes of this subsection, the term `chief law 
enforcement officer' means the chief of police, the sheriff, or an 
equivalent officer or the designee of any such individual.
    ``(9) The Secretary shall take necessary actions to ensure that the 
provisions of this subsection are published and disseminated to licensed 
dealers, law enforcement officials, and the public.''.
        (2) Handgun defined.--Section 921(a) of title 18, United States 
    Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(29) The term `handgun' means--
        ``(A) a firearm which has a short stock and is designed to be 
    held and fired by the use of a single hand; and
        ``(B) any combination of parts from which a firearm described in 
    subparagraph (A) can be assembled.''.
    (b) Permanent Provision.--Section 922 of title 18, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (a)(1), is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(t)(1) Beginning on the date that is 30 days after the Attorney 
General notifies licensees under section 103(d) of the Brady Handgun 
Violence Prevention Act that the national instant criminal background 
check system is established, a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, 
or licensed dealer shall not transfer a firearm to any other person who 
is not licensed under this chapter, unless--
        ``(A) before the completion of the transfer, the licensee 
    contacts the national instant criminal background check system 
    established under section 103 of that Act;
        ``(B)(i) the system provides the licensee with a unique 
    identification number; or
        ``(ii) 3 business days (meaning a day on which State offices are 
    open) have elapsed since the licensee contacted the system, and the 
    system has not notified the licensee that the receipt of a firearm 
    by such other person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of this 
    section; and
        ``(C) the transferor has verified the identity of the transferee 
    by examining a valid identification document (as defined in section 
    1028(d)(1) of this title) of the transferee containing a photograph 
    of the transferee.
    ``(2) If receipt of a firearm would not violate section 922 (g) or 
(n) or State law, the system shall--
        ``(A) assign a unique identification number to the transfer;
        ``(B) provide the licensee with the number; and
        ``(C) destroy all records of the system with respect to the call 
    (other than the identifying number and the date the number was 
    assigned) and all records of the system relating to the person or 
    the transfer.
    ``(3) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a firearm transfer between a 
licensee and another person if--
        ``(A)(i) such other person has presented to the licensee a 
    permit that--
            ``(I) allows such other person to possess or acquire a 
        firearm; and
            ``(II) was issued not more than 5 years earlier by the State 
        in which the transfer is to take place; and
        ``(ii) the law of the State provides that such a permit is to be 
    issued only after an authorized government official has verified 
    that the information available to such official does not indicate 
    that possession of a firearm by such other person would be in 
    violation of law;
        ``(B) the Secretary has approved the transfer under section 5812 
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
        ``(C) on application of the transferor, the Secretary has 
    certified that compliance with paragraph (1)(A) is impracticable 
    because--
            ``(i) the ratio of the number of law enforcement officers of 
        the State in which the transfer is to occur to the number of 
        square miles of land area of the State does not exceed 0.0025;
            ``(ii) the business premises of the licensee at which the 
        transfer is to occur are extremely remote in relation to the 
        chief law enforcement officer (as defined in subsection (s)(8)); 
        and
            ``(iii) there is an absence of telecommunications facilities 
        in the geographical area in which the business premises are 
        located.
    ``(4) If the national instant criminal background check system 
notifies the licensee that the information available to the system does 
not demonstrate that the receipt of a firearm by such other person would 
violate subsection (g) or (n) or State law, and the licensee transfers a 
firearm to such other person, the licensee shall include in the record 
of the transfer the unique identification number provided by the system 
with respect to the transfer.
    ``(5) If the licensee knowingly transfers a firearm to such other 
person and knowingly fails to comply with paragraph (1) of this 
subsection with respect to the transfer and, at the time such other 
person most recently proposed the transfer, the national instant 
criminal background check system was operating and information was 
available to the system demonstrating that receipt of a firearm by such 
other person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of this section or 
State law, the Secretary may, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, suspend for not more than 6 months or revoke any license issued 
to the licensee under section 923, and may impose on the licensee a 
civil fine of not more than $5,000.
    ``(6) Neither a local government nor an employee of the Federal 
Government or of any State or local government, responsible for 
providing information to the national instant criminal background check 
system shall be liable in an action at law for damages--
        ``(A) for failure to prevent the sale or transfer of a firearm 
    to a person whose receipt or possession of the firearm is unlawful 
    under this section; or
        ``(B) for preventing such a sale or transfer to a person who may 
    lawfully receive or possess a firearm.''.
    (c) Penalty.--Section 924(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraph (2) or (3) of''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5) Whoever knowingly violates subsection (s) or (t) of section 
922 shall be fined not more than $1,000, imprisoned for not more than 1 
year, or both.''.
    SEC. 103. NATIONAL INSTANT CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK SYSTEM.
    (a) Determination of Timetables.--Not later than 6 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall--
        (1) determine the type of computer hardware and software that 
    will be used to operate the national instant criminal background 
    check system and the means by which State criminal records systems 
    and the telephone or electronic device of licensees will communicate 
    with the national system;
        (2) investigate the criminal records system of each State and 
    determine for each State a timetable by which the State should be 
    able to provide criminal records on an on-line capacity basis to the 
    national system; and
        (3) notify each State of the determinations made pursuant to 
    paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (b) Establishment of System.--Not later than 60 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish 
a national instant criminal background check system that any licensee 
may contact, by telephone or by other electronic means in addition to 
the telephone, for information, to be supplied immediately, on whether 
receipt of a firearm by a prospective transferee would violate section 
922 of title 18, United States Code, or State law.
    (c) Expedited Action by the Attorney General.--The Attorney General 
shall expedite--
        (1) the upgrading and indexing of State criminal history records 
    in the Federal criminal records system maintained by the Federal 
    Bureau of Investigation;
        (2) the development of hardware and software systems to link 
    State criminal history check systems into the national instant 
    criminal background check system established by the Attorney General 
    pursuant to this section; and
        (3) the current revitalization initiatives by the Federal Bureau 
    of Investigation for technologically advanced fingerprint and 
    criminal records identification.
    (d) Notification of Licensees.--On establishment of the system under 
this section, the Attorney General shall notify each licensee and the 
chief law enforcement officer of each State of the existence and purpose 
of the system and the means to be used to contact the system.
    (e) Administrative Provisions.--
        (1) Authority to obtain official information.--Notwithstanding 
    any other law, the Attorney General may secure directly from any 
    department or agency of the United States such information on 
    persons for whom receipt of a firearm would violate subsection (g) 
    or (n) of section 922 of title 18, United States Code or State law, 
    as is necessary to enable the system to operate in accordance with 
    this section. On request of the Attorney General, the head of such 
    department or agency shall furnish such information to the system.
        (2) Other authority.--The Attorney General shall develop such 
    computer software, design and obtain such telecommunications and 
    computer hardware, and employ such personnel, as are necessary to 
    establish and operate the system in accordance with this section.
    (f) Written Reasons Provided on Request.--If the national instant 
criminal background check system determines that an individual is 
ineligible to receive a firearm and the individual requests the system 
to provide the reasons for the determination, the system shall provide 
such reasons to the individual, in writing, within 5 business days after 
the date of the request.
    (g) Correction of Erroneous System Information.--If the system 
established under this section informs an individual contacting the 
system that receipt of a firearm by a prospective transferee would 
violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of title 18, United States 
Code or State law, the prospective transferee may request the Attorney 
General to provide the prospective transferee with the reasons therefor. 
Upon receipt of such a request, the Attorney General shall immediately 
comply with the request. The prospective transferee may submit to the 
Attorney General information to correct, clarify, or supplement records 
of the system with respect to the prospective transferee. After receipt 
of such information, the Attorney General shall immediately consider the 
information, investigate the matter further, and correct all erroneous 
Federal records relating to the prospective transferee and give notice 
of the error to any Federal department or agency or any State that was 
the source of such erroneous records.
    (h) Regulations.--After 90 days' notice to the public and an 
opportunity for hearing by interested parties, the Attorney General 
shall prescribe regulations to ensure the privacy and security of the 
information of the system established under this section.
    (i) Prohibition Relating To Establishment of Registration Systems 
With Respect to Firearms.--No department, agency, officer, or employee 
of the United States may--
        (1) require that any record or portion thereof generated by the 
    system established under this section be recorded at or transferred 
    to a facility owned, managed, or controlled by the United States or 
    any State or political subdivision thereof; or
        (2) use the system established under this section to establish 
    any system for the registration of firearms, firearm owners, or 
    firearm transactions or dispositions, except with respect to 
    persons, prohibited by section 922 (g) or (n) of title 18, United 
    States Code or State law, from receiving a firearm.
    (j) Definitions.--As used in this section:
        (1) Licensee.--The term ``licensee'' means a licensed importer 
    (as defined in section 921(a)(9) of title 18, United States Code), a 
    licensed manufacturer (as defined in section 921(a)(10) of that 
    title), or a licensed dealer (as defined in section 921(a)(11) of 
    that title).
        (2) Other terms.--The terms ``firearm'', ``handgun'', ``licensed 
    importer'', ``licensed manufacturer'', and ``licensed dealer'' have 
    the meanings stated in section 921(a) of title 18, United States 
    Code, as amended by subsection (a)(2).
    (k) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated, which may be appropriated from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund established by section 1115 of title 31, United States Code, 
such sums as are necessary to enable the Attorney General to carry out 
this section.

SEC. 104. REMEDY FOR ERRONEOUS DENIAL OF FIREARM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 925 the following new section:

``§925A. Remedy for erroneous denial of firearm

    ``Any person denied a firearm pursuant to subsection (s) or (t) of 
section 922--
        ``(1) due to the provision of erroneous information relating to 
    the person by any State or political subdivision thereof, or by the 
    national instant criminal background check system established under 
    section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act; or
        ``(2) who was not prohibited from receipt of a firearm pursuant 
    to subsection (g) or (n) of section 922,
may bring an action against the State or political subdivision 
responsible for providing the erroneous information, or responsible for 
denying the transfer, or against the United States, as the case may be, 
for an order directing that the erroneous information be corrected or 
that the transfer be approved, as the case may be. In any action under 
this section, the court, in its discretion, may allow the prevailing 
party a reasonable attorney's fee as part of the costs.''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--The chapter analysis for chapter 44 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 925 the following new item:
``925A. Remedy for erroneous denial of firearm.''.

SEC. 105. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall not be construed 
to alter or impair any right or remedy under section 552a of title 5, 
United States Code.

SEC. 106. FUNDING FOR IMPROVEMENT OF CRIMINAL RECORDS.

    (a) Use of Formula Grants.--Section 509(b) of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3759(b)) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (3) by striking the period and inserting ``; 
    and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) the improvement of State record systems and the sharing 
    with the Attorney General of all of the records described in 
    paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection and the records 
    required by the Attorney General under section 103 of the Brady 
    Handgun Violence Prevention Act, for the purpose of implementing 
    that Act.''.
    (b) Additional Funding.--
        (1) Grants for the improvement of criminal records.--The 
    Attorney General, through the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall, 
    subject to appropriations and with preference to States that as of 
    the date of enactment of this Act have the lowest percent currency 
    of case dispositions in computerized criminal history files, make a 
    grant to each State to be used--
            (A) for the creation of a computerized criminal history 
        record system or improvement of an existing system;
            (B) to improve accessibility to the national instant 
        criminal background system; and
            (C) upon establishment of the national system, to assist the 
        State in the transmittal of criminal records to the national 
        system.
        (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
    appropriated for grants under paragraph (1), which may be 
    appropriated from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund established 
    by section 1115 of title 31, United States Code, a total of 
    $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1994 and all fiscal years thereafter.
     TITLE II--MULTIPLE FIREARM PURCHASES TO STATE AND LOCAL POLICE

SEC. 201. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Section 923(g)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the second sentence by inserting after ``thereon,'' the 
    following: ``and to the department of State police or State law 
    enforcement agency of the State or local law enforcement agency of 
    the local jurisdiction in which the sale or other disposition took 
    place,'';
        (2) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end thereof the following:
        ``(B) Except in the case of forms and contents thereof regarding 
    a purchaser who is prohibited by subsection (g) or (n) of section 
    922 of this title from receipt of a firearm, the department of State 
    police or State law enforcement agency or local law enforcement 
    agency of the local jurisdiction shall not disclose any such form or 
    the contents thereof to any person or entity, and shall destroy each 
    such form and any record of the contents thereof no more than 20 
    days from the date such form is received. No later than the date 
    that is 6 months after the effective date of this subparagraph, and 
    at the end of each 6-month period thereafter, the department of 
    State police or State law enforcement agency or local law 
    enforcement agency of the local jurisdiction shall certify to the 
    Attorney General of the United States that no disclosure contrary to 
    this subparagraph has been made and that all forms and any record of 
    the contents thereof have been destroyed as provided in this 
    subparagraph.''.
               TITLE III--FEDERAL FIREARMS LICENSE REFORM

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Federal Firearms License Reform Act 
of 1993''.

SEC. 302. PREVENTION OF THEFT OF FIREARMS.

    (a) Common Carriers.--Section 922(e) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``No common or 
contract carrier shall require or cause any label, tag, or other written 
notice to be placed on the outside of any package, luggage, or other 
container that such package, luggage, or other container contains a 
firearm.''.
    (b) Receipt Requirement.--Section 922(f) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(f)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) It shall be unlawful for any common or contract carrier to 
deliver in interstate or foreign commerce any firearm without obtaining 
written acknowledgement of receipt from the recipient of the package or 
other container in which there is a firearm.''.
    (c) Unlawful Acts.--Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, as 
amended by section 102, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(u) It shall be unlawful for a person to steal or unlawfully take 
or carry away from the person or the premises of a person who is 
licensed to engage in the business of importing, manufacturing, or 
dealing in firearms, any firearm in the licensee's business inventory 
that has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign 
commerce.''.
    (d) Penalties.--Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) A person who knowingly violates section 922(u) shall be 
fined not more than $10,000, imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.
    ``(2) Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as 
indicating an intent on the part of Congress to occupy the field in 
which provisions of this subsection operate to the exclusion of State 
laws on the same subject matter, nor shall any provision of this 
subsection be construed as invalidating any provision of State law 
unless such provision is inconsistent with any of the purposes of this 
subsection.''.

SEC. 303. LICENSE APPLICATION FEES FOR DEALERS IN FIREARMS.

    Section 923(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by adding ``or'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``a pawnbroker dealing in 
    firearms other than'' and inserting ``not a dealer in'';
        (3) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``$25 per year; or'' and 
    inserting ``$200 for 3 years, except that the fee for renewal of a 
    valid license shall be $90 for 3 years.''; and
        (4) by striking subparagraph (C).







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.