[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2750 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2750
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
agencies

 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                    Immediate Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Secretary, 
$1,173,000.

                Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Deputy 
Secretary, $481,000.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$7,667,000.
    For the necessary legal expenses of the 5 former employees of the 
White House Travel Office who were placed on paid administrative leave 
during calendar year 1993, $150,000 to be made available to the Office 
of the General Counsel: Provided, That such funds shall be deposited in 
a Fund established by the General Counsel: Provided further, That the 
General Counsel shall disburse a portion of such funds to any such 
employee--
        (1) after submission of a valid claim for reimbursement of 
    necessary legal expenses incurred as a result of an investigation 
    conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the operations 
    of the White House Travel Office during calendar year 1993; and
        (2) upon notification or finding by the Department of Justice 
    that such employee is not a subject of such investigation.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Transportation Policy, $2,410,000.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $8,000,000.

        Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Budget and Programs, $2,826,000, including not to exceed $60,000 for 
allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Governmental Affairs, $2,100,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration, $27,066,000.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Public Affairs, $1,355,000.

                          Executive Secretariat

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Secretariat, $900,000.

                         Contract Appeals Board

    For necessary expenses of the Contract Appeals Board, $602,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $1,430,000.

         Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization, $934,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds available for the purposes of the Minority 
Business Resource Center in this or any other Act may be used for 
business opportunities related to any mode of transportation.

                   Office of Intelligence and Security

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and Security, 
$1,000,000.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, and development activities, including the collection of 
national transportation statistics, to remain available until expended, 
$9,232,000.

                Office of Commercial Space Transportation

                         operations and research

    For necessary expenses for operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, $4,700,000, of which 
$1,500,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this account up to $200,000 received from user fees established for 
regulatory services.

                          Working Capital Fund

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Department of Transportation Working Capital Fund not to exceed 
$93,000,000 shall be paid, in accordance with law, from appropriations 
made available by this Act and prior appropriations Acts to the 
Department of Transportation, together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Department of Transportation.

                        Payments to Air Carriers


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for payments to air carriers 
of so much of the compensation fixed and determined under section 419 of 
the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1389), as is 
payable by the Department of Transportation, $33,423,077, to remain 
available until expended and to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs in excess of 
$33,423,077 for the Payments to Air Carriers program in fiscal year 
1994: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be used 
by the Secretary of Transportation to make payment of compensation under 
section 419 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, in excess 
of the appropriation in this Act for liquidation of obligations incurred 
under the ``Payments to air carriers'' program: Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be used for the payment of claims 
for such compensation except in accordance with this provision: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
service to communities in the forty-eight contiguous States that are 
located fewer than seventy highway miles from the nearest large or 
medium hub airport, or that require a rate of subsidy per passenger in 
excess of $200, unless such point is greater than two hundred and ten 
miles from the nearest large or medium hub airport.

                             Rental Payments

    For necessary expenses for rental of headquarters and field space 
and related services assessed by the General Services Administration, 
$149,605,000: Provided, That of this amount, $3,262,000 shall be derived 
from the Highway Trust Fund, $37,114,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, $576,000 shall be derived from the 
Pipeline Safety Fund, and $175,000 shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided further, That in addition, for 
assessments by the General Services Administration related to the space 
needs of the Federal Highway Administration, $17,524,000, to be derived 
from ``Federal-aid Highways'', subject to the ``Limitation on General 
Operating Expenses''.

                Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of direct loans, $300,000, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 
332: Provided, That of this amount, $120,000 shall be derived from 
unobligated balances of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
Utilization: Provided further, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $7,500,000. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out the direct loan program, $400,000: Provided 
further, That of this amount $180,000 shall be derived from unobligated 
balances of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed four 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare; $2,570,000,000, of which $25,000,000 shall be 
derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; and of which 
$32,250,000 shall be expended from the Boat Safety Account: Provided, 
That the number of aircraft on hand at any one time shall not exceed two 
hundred and twenty-three, exclusive of aircraft and parts stored to meet 
future attrition: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
in this or any other Act shall be available for pay or administrative 
expenses in connection with shipping commissioners in the United States: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for expenses incurred for yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 
12109, except to the extent fees are collected from yacht owners and 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided under this head, not less than $6,000,000 in work currently 
scheduled to be conducted at the Coast Guard Yard is to be awarded based 
upon a competitive solicitation of both public and private shipyards: 
Provided further, That the Commandant shall reduce both military and 
civilian employment levels for the purpose of complying with Executive 
Order No. 12839.

               Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, rebuilding, and 
improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $327,500,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of 
which $95,300,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate or 
improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain available 
until September 30, 1998; $49,685,000 shall be available to acquire new 
aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain available until 
September 30, 1996; $44,500,000 shall be available for other equipment, 
to remain available until September 30, 1996; $96,400,000 shall be 
available for shore facilities and aids to navigation facilities, to 
remain available until September 30, 1996; and $41,615,000 shall be 
available for personnel compensation and benefits and related costs, to 
remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided, That funds received 
from the sale of the VC-11A aircraft shall be credited to this 
appropriation for the purpose of acquiring new aircraft and increasing 
aviation capacity.

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 102-388, 
$20,000,000 are rescinded.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $22,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $12,940,000, to remain available until expended.

                               Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $548,774,000.

                            Reserve Training

    For all necessary expenses for the Coast Guard Reserve, as 
authorized by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and 
supplies, equipment, and services; $64,000,000.

               Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $22,500,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $4,457,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from State and local governments, other public authorities, 
private sources, and foreign countries, for expenses incurred for 
research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                               Boat Safety


                      (aquatic resources trust fund)

    For payment of necessary expenses incurred for recreational boating 
safety assistance under Public Law 92-75, as amended, $32,250,000, to be 
derived from the Boat Safety Account and to remain available until 
expended.

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses for research 
and development, establishment of air navigation facilities and the 
operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, and carrying 
out the provisions of the Airport and Airway Development Act, as 
amended, or other provisions of law authorizing the obligation of funds 
for similar programs of airport and airway development or improvement, 
lease or purchase of four passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, 
$4,580,518,000, of which $2,294,500,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the maintenance and operation of air navigation 
facilities and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for 
tests related thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration 
forms: Provided further, That, of the funds available under this head, 
$2,000,000 shall be made available for the Mid-American Aviation 
Resource Consortium in Minnesota to operate an air traffic controller 
training program: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into 
a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard setting organization to 
assist in the development of aviation safety standards: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided shall be made available for pay 
raises or bonuses in fiscal year 1994 for Federal Aviation 
Administration employees whose responsibilities include noise abatement 
policy function, managing aircraft route design or changes, and 
responsibility for preparing, managing, and overseeing the environmental 
impact statement mandated by section 9119 of Public Law 101-508, until 
the final report on such impact statement is issued: Provided further, 
That none of these funds shall be available for new applicants for the 
second career training program.

                        Facilities and Equipment


                      (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, 
establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air 
navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as authorized by 
the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1301 et 
seq.), including initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant; engineering and service testing including construction of test 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and 
construction and furnishing of quarters and related accommodations of 
officers and employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed 
at remote localities where such accommodations are not available; and 
the purchase, lease or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,120,104,000, of which $1,922,104,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 1996, and of which $198,000,000 shall remain available 
until Septem- ber 30, 1995: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development


                      (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1301 et seq.), 
including construction of experimental facilities and acquisition of 
necessary sites by lease or grant, $254,000,000, to be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred for research, 
engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)


                      (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and for noise compatibility planning 
and programs under the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as 
amended, and under other law authorizing such obligations, 
$2,200,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the commitments for which are in excess of $1,690,000,000 in fiscal year 
1994 for grants-in-aid for airport planning and development, and noise 
compatibility planning and programs, notwithstanding section 506(e)(4) 
of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as amended.

                    Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to section 1306 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended 
(49 U.S.C. App. 1536), and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under title XIII of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958.

                Aircraft Purchase Loan Guarantee Program

    The Secretary of Transportation may hereafter issue notes or other 
obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury, in such forms and 
denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. Such 
obligations may be issued to pay any necessary expenses required 
pursuant to any guarantee issued under the Act of September 7, 1957, 
Public Law 85-307, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1324 note). None of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for activities under this head the 
obligations for which are in excess of $9,970,000 during fiscal year 
1994. Such obligations shall be redeemed by the Secretary from 
appropriations authorized by this section. The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall purchase any such obligations, and for such purpose he may use as 
a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities 
issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as now or hereafter in force. 
The purposes for which securities may be issued under such Act are 
extended to include any purchase of notes or other obligations issued 
under the subsection. The Secretary of the Treasury may sell any such 
obligations at such times and price and upon such terms and conditions 
as he shall determine in his discretion. All purchases, redemptions, and 
sales of such obligations by such Secretary shall be treated as public 
debt transactions of the United States.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION


                 limitation on general operating expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration, operation, including motor 
carrier safety program operations, and research of the Federal Highway 
Administration not to exceed $468,856,000 shall be paid in accordance 
with law from appropriations made available by this Act to the Federal 
Highway Administration together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, That not to 
exceed $168,475,000 of the amount provided herein shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, there may be credited to this account funds received 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources, for training expenses incurred for non-Federal 
employees.

                      Highway-Related Safety Grants


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of title 23, United States Code, section 402 administered by the Federal 
Highway Administration, to remain available until expended, $10,000,000 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That not to exceed 
$100,000 of the amount appropriated herein shall be available for 
``Limitation on general operating expenses'': Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$10,000,000 in fiscal year 1994 for ``Highway-Related Safety Grants''.


                    railroad-highway crossings projects

    For necessary expenses of certain railroad-highway crossings 
projects as authorized by section 163 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 
1973, as amended, to remain available until expended, $30,262,000.

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                        (limitation on obligations)

                           (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $17,590,000,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction programs for fiscal year 1994.


                               (rescission)

                           (highway trust fund)

    Of the funds made available for the functional replacement of 
publicly-owned facilities located within the proposed right-of-way of 
Interstate Route 170 in Public Law 96-131, $200,000 are rescinded.

                              (rescission)


                           (highway trust fund)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 100-71, 
$364,180 are rescinded.


                               (rescission)

    Of the authority made available for the intersection safety 
demonstration project in Public Law 100-457 and Public Law 101-516, 
$3,059,960 are rescinded.

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States Code, 
that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, including the National 
Scenic and Recreational Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not 
otherwise provided, including reimbursements for sums expended pursuant 
to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $18,000,000,000 or so much thereof 
as may be available in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                       Right-of-Way Revolving Fund


                       (limitation on direct loans)

                           (highway trust fund)

    During fiscal year 1994 and with the resources and authority 
available, gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
shall not exceed $42,500,000.

                       Motor Carrier Safety Grants


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of section 402 of Public Law 97-424, $68,000,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $65,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''.

                      Baltimore-Washington Parkway

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, to carry out the 
provisions of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1970 and section 1069 of 
Public Law 102-240 for the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, to remain 
available until expended, $12,800,000.

                         Kentucky Bridge Project

    For up to 80 percent of the expenses necessary for continuing 
construction to replace the Glover Cary Bridge in Owensboro, Kentucky, 
$12,000,000.

                         Border Highway Project

    For up to 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the border 
highway project authorized in Public Law 89-795, $6,400,000.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                         Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under the Motor Vehicle 
Information and Cost Savings Act (Public Law 92-513, as amended) and the 
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, $75,909,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.

                         Operations and Research


                           (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under 23 U.S.C. 403 and 
section 2006 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $48,236,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1996.

                      Highway Traffic Safety Grants


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred carrying out the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 153, 402, 406, 408, and 410, section 2007 of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, and section 209 of Public 
Law 95-599, as amended, to remain available until expended, 
$138,550,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding subsection 2009(b) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the planning or execution of programs the total 
obligations for which, in fiscal year 1994, are in excess of 
$163,500,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402 and 410, as 
amended, of which $123,000,000 shall be for ``State and community 
highway safety grants'', $12,000,000 shall be for section 153 ``Safety 
belt and motorcycle helmet use'' grants, $3,500,000 shall be for the 
``National Driver Register'', and $25,000,000 shall be for section 410 
``Alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures programs'': Provided further, 
That none of these funds shall be used for construction, rehabilitation 
or remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and fixtures for State, 
local, or private buildings or structures: Provided further, That none 
of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the total obligations for which are in excess of 
$10,500,000 for ``Alcohol safety incentive grants'' authorized under 23 
U.S.C. 408: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,153,000 of the funds 
made available for section 402 may be available for administering 
``State and community highway safety grants'': Provided further, That 
not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 may 
be available for technical assistance to the States: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning 
or execution of programs authorized under section 209 of Public Law 95-
599, as amended, the total obligations for which are in excess of 
$4,750,000 in fiscal years 1982 through 1994.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                       Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $12,011,000, of which $2,435,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the planning or execution of a program making 
commitments to guarantee new loans under the Emergency Rail Services Act 
of 1970, as amended, and that no new commitments to guarantee loans 
under section 211(a) or 211(h) of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act 
of 1973, as amended, shall be made: Provided further, That, as part of 
the Washington Union Station transaction in which the Secretary assumed 
the first deed of trust on the property and, where the Union Station 
Redevelopment Corporation or any successor is obligated to make payments 
on such deed of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including payments on 
and after September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to receive 
such payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation, 
credit them to the appropriation charged for the first deed of trust, 
and make payments on the first deed of trust with those funds: Provided 
further, That such additional sums as may be necessary for payment on 
the first deed of trust may be advanced by the Administrator from 
unobligated balances available to the Federal Railroad Administration, 
to be reimbursed from payments received from the Union Station 
Redevelopment Corporation.

                      Local Rail Freight Assistance

    For necessary expenses for rail assistance under section 5(q) of the 
Department of Transportation Act, as amended, $17,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                             Railroad Safety

    For necessary expenses in connection with railroad safety, not 
otherwise provided for, $44,420,000, of which $2,711,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from non-Federal sources for expenses 
incurred in training safety employees of private industry, State and 
local authorities, or other public authorities other than State rail 
safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to section 206 of 
the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970.

                    Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$37,613,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That up to 
$100,000 shall be made available to support, by financial assistance 
agreement, railroad-highway grade crossing safety programs, including 
Operation Lifesaver: Provided further, That $100,000 is available until 
expended to support by financial assistance agreement railroad 
metallurgical and welding studies at the Oregon Graduate Institute.

                 Northeast Corridor Improvement Program

    For necessary expenses related to Northeast Corridor improvements 
authorized by title VII of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
Reform Act of 1976, as amended (45 U.S.C. 851 et seq.) and the Rail 
Safety Improvement Act of 1988, $225,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation authorized by 45 U.S.C. 601, to 
remain available until expended, $546,700,000, of which $351,700,000 
shall be available for operating losses incurred by the Corporation and 
for labor protection costs, and of which $195,000,000, not to become 
available until July 1, 1994, shall be available for capital 
improvements: Provided, That none of the funds herein appropriated shall 
be used for lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles or for the 
hire of vehicle operators for any officer or employee, other than the 
president of the Corporation, excluding the lease of passenger motor 
vehicles for those officers or employees while in official travel 
status: Provided further, That no funds in this Act may be used, either 
directly or indirectly, to support intercity bus routes unconnected by a 
rail segment provided by the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
Thruway Bus Service Program.

                Mandatory Passenger Rail Service Payments

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to pay obligations and 
liabilities of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, 
$137,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That this 
amount is available only for the payment of: (1) tax liabilities under 
section 3221 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 due in fiscal year 
1994 in excess of amounts needed to fund benefits for individuals who 
retired from the National Railroad Passenger Corporation and for their 
beneficiaries; (2) obligations of the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation under section 358(a) of title 45, United States Code, due in 
fiscal year 1994 in excess of its obligations calculated on an 
experience-rated basis; and (3) obligations of the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation due under section 3321 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986.

             Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to section 
512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times as 
may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee 
of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of 
such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That not more than $5,000,000 in 
loan guarantee commitments shall be made during fiscal year 1994 and 
$250,000 is hereby made available for the cost of such loan guarantee 
commitments: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, for fiscal year 1989 and each fiscal year thereafter all amounts 
realized from the sale of notes or securities sold under authority of 
this section shall be considered as current year domestic discretionary 
outlay offsets and not as ``asset sales'' or ``loan prepayments'' as 
defined by section 257(12) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That any underwriting 
fees and related expenses shall be derived solely from the proceeds of 
the sales.

           National Magnetic Levitation Prototype Development


                        (limitation on obligations)

                           (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or 
execution of the National Magnetic Levitation Prototype Development 
program as defined in subsections 1036(b) and 1036(d)(1)(A) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991.

                    High-Speed Ground Transportation


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of the High-Speed Ground Transportation program as defined in 
subsections 1036(c) and 1036(d)(1)(B) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, $4,000,000, to be derived from 
the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $3,500,000 for the ``High-Speed Ground Transportation'' 
program.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by the Federal Transit Act and 23 
U.S.C. chapter 1 in connection with these activities, including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$21,295,000: Provided, That no more than $39,457,000 of budget authority 
shall be available for these purposes.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 9, 
16(b)(2), and 18 of the Federal Transit Act, to remain available until 
expended, $1,284,916,000: Provided, That no more than $2,414,867,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this head for formula grants 
no more than $802,278,000 may be used for operating assistance under 
section 9(k)(2) of the Federal Transit Act.

                    University Transportation Centers

    For necessary expenses for university transportation centers as 
authorized by section 11(b) of the Federal Transit Act, to remain 
available until expended, $3,238,000: Provided, That no more than 
$6,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                      Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses for transit planning and research as 
authorized by section 26 of the Federal Transit Act, to remain available 
until expended, $48,125,000: Provided, That no more than $92,250,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds received 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources, for expenses incurred for training.

                  Trust Fund Share of Transit Programs


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out section 21(a) of 
the Federal Transit Act, $1,195,000,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
$18,162,000 shall be paid from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
Trust Fund to the Federal Transit Administration's administrative 
expenses account: Provided further, That $1,129,951,000 shall be paid 
from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund to the Federal 
Transit Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$2,762,000 shall be paid from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
Trust Fund to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation centers account: Provided further, That $44,125,000 shall 
be paid from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund to the 
Federal Transit Administration's transit planning and research account.

                          Discretionary Grants


                        (limitation on obligations)

                           (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $1,785,000,000 in fiscal year 1994 for grants under the 
contract authority in section 21(b) of the Federal Transit Act: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any provision of law, there shall be 
available for fixed guideway modernization, $760,060,000; there shall be 
available for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and 
related equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, 
$357,000,000; and there shall be available for new fixed guideway 
systems, $667,940,000, as follows--
        $10,000,000 for alternatives analysis only for the South Boston 
    Piers Transitway Project;
        $24,090,000 for the Chicago Central Area Circulator Project;
        $800,000 for the Cleveland Dual Hub Corridor Project;
        $9,500,000 for the Boston, Massachusetts to Portland, Maine 
    Commuter Rail Project;
        $40,000,000 for the Dallas South Oak Cliff LRT Project;
        $39,000,000 for the Houston Regional Bus Plan Program of 
    Projects;
        $62,500,000 for the New Jersey Urban Core;
        $170,000,000 for the Los Angeles Metro Rail MOS-2 and MOS-3 
    Projects;
        $3,600,000 for alternatives analysis, preliminary engineering, 
    and environmental analysis for the New Orleans Canal Street Corridor 
    Project;
        $1,000,000 for the Northeast Ohio Commuter Rail Project;
        $500,000 for the South Jersey alternatives analysis;
        $15,500,000 for the Orange County Transitway System Project;
        $36,700,000 for the Pittsburgh Busway Projects;
        $65,000,000 for the New York Queens Connection Project;
        $3,000,000 for the Orlando Streetcar Project;
        $83,500,000 for the Portland Westside LRT Project;
        $1,000,000 for the Sacramento LRT Extension Project;
        $28,200,000 for the San Francisco Airport BART Extension Project 
    and the Tasman Corridor LRT Project;
        $3,000,000 for preliminary engineering only for the Salt Lake 
    City South LRT Project;
        $15,200,000 for the St. Louis METRO Link LRT to Airport Project;
        $10,000,000 for the Florida Tri-County Commuter Rail Project;
        $2,800,000 for preliminary engineering only for the Twin Cities 
    Central Corridor Project;
        $23,500,000 for the Maryland Commuter Rail Project;
        $8,000,000 for the Wisconsin Central Commuter Line Project;
        $3,000,000 for the Lakewood Freehold and Matawan or Jamesburg 
    Commuter Rail Project;
        $6,700,000 for the Hawthorne-Warwick Commuter Rail Project;
        $1,350,000 for alternatives analysis for Cincinnati, Ohio 
    Commuter Rail; and
        $500,000 for Memphis, Tennessee Regional Rail Plan: Provided 
    further, That Public Law 102-388 is amended under Federal Transit 
    Administration, ``Discretionary grants'' by deleting ``not less than 
    $76,500,000 for the Honolulu Rapid Transit Starter Line of 
    Projects;'': Provided further, That of the funds affected by the 
    preceding proviso, $10,000,000 shall be for the South Boston Piers 
    Transitway, $8,500,000 shall be for the Chicago Central Area 
    Circulator Project, $4,000,000 shall be for the Dallas South Oak 
    Cliff LRT Project, $1,000,000 shall be for the Houston Regional Bus 
    Plan Program of Projects, $5,000,000 shall be for the Pittsburgh 
    Busway Projects, $3,000,000 shall be for the Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
    East-West Corridor Project, and $45,000,000 shall be allocated at 
    the discretion of the Secretary.

                        Mass Transit Capital Fund


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out section 21(b) of 
the Federal Transit Act, administered by the Federal Transit 
Administration, $1,000,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until expended.

                   Interstate Transfer Grants--Transit

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 
103(e)(4) related to transit projects, $45,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

             Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 14 of 
Public Law 96-184 and Public Law 101-551, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

              SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance


                      (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operation and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $10,765,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

                       ADDITIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECTS

                Appalachian Corridor Improvement Project

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary to continue construction on 
Kentucky Corridor B and West Virginia Corridor L of the Appalachian 
Development Highway System, as authorized by section 1069(y) of Public 
Law 102-240, $57,000,000.

                      Cumberland Gap Tunnel Project

    For expenses necessary for the Cumberland Gap Tunnel Project, as 
authorized by section 1069(c) of Public Law 102-240, $6,000,000.

                        Lock and Dam No. 4 Bridge

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the Lock and Dam No. 4 
bridge in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, $4,000,000.

                         Mineola Grade Crossing


                           (highway trust fund)

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the Mineola, New York 
grade crossing project, as authorized by Public Law 99-591, $7,800,000, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                          Congestion Mitigation

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the Syracuse, New York 
congestion mitigation project, as authorized by section 1069(bb) of 
Public Law 102-240, $1,600,000.

                      Cross Westchester Expressway

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the I-287 Cross 
Westchester, New York Expressway high occupancy vehicle lane project, as 
authorized by section 1069(ff) of Public Law 102-240, $9,800,000.

                           Schenectady Bridge

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for construction of the 
Exit 26 bridge in Schenectady County, New York, as authorized by section 
1069(b) of Public Law 102-240, $3,200,000.

                         Columbia Gorge Highway

    For 80 percent of the expenses necessary for the Hood River to 
Mosier Connection project, as authorized by section 16(b)(3) of Public 
Law 99-663, $2,500,000.

                       Manassas Battlefield Bypass

    For 75 percent of the expenses necessary for the Manassas 
Battlefield highway projects, as authorized by section 10004(d) of 
Public Law 100-647, $3,000,000.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                       Hazardous Materials Safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of Hazardous 
Materials Safety and for expenses for conducting research and 
development, $12,600,000, of which $1,364,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That up to $1,000,000 in fees collected under 
section 106(c)(11) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 
U.S.C. App. 1805(c)(11)) shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided further, That there may be 
credited to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, and for reports publication and 
dissemination.

                     Aviation Information Management

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of Aviation 
Information Management, $2,521,000: Provided, That there may be credited 
to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for aviation information management: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be 
credited to this appropriation up to $1,000,000 in funds received from 
user fees established to support the electronic tariff filing system: 
Provided further, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from user fees established to defray the costs of obtaining, 
preparing, and publishing in automatic data processing tape format the 
United States International Air Travel Statistics data base published by 
the Department.

                        Emergency Transportation

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of Emergency 
Transportation and for expenses for conducting research and development, 
$842,000: Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training, and 
for reports publication and dissemination.

                         Research and Technology

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of Research and 
Technology and for expenses for conducting research and development, 
$1,766,000, of which $585,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training, and 
for reports publication and dissemination.

                   Program and Administrative Support

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of Program and 
Administrative Support, $6,279,000, of which $180,000 shall be derived 
from the Pipeline Safety Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, and for reports publication and dissemination: Provided 
further, That no employees other than those compensated under this 
appropriation shall serve in the Office of the Administrator, the Office 
of Policy and Programs, the Office of Management and Administration, and 
the Office of the Chief Counsel.

                             Pipeline Safety


                          (pipeline safety fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by section 5 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety 
Act of 1968 and the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, and to 
discharge the pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act 
of 1990, $19,376,000; of which $2,449,000 shall be derived from the Oil 
Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended; and of 
which $16,927,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of 
which $8,400,000 shall remain available until expended.

                      Emergency Preparedness Grants


                       (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 117A(i)(3)(B) of the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended, $400,000 to be 
derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not more than $11,000,000 shall be made 
available for obligation in fiscal year 1994 for amounts made available 
by section 117A (h)(6)(B) and (i) (1), (2) and (4) and section 118 of 
the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended: Provided 
further, That such amounts shall only be available to the Secretary of 
Transportation and the National Institute of Environmental Health 
Sciences.

                     OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $39,000,000: Provided, That not more than $1,000,000 of the 
funds made available under this head shall be available for 
implementation of Public Law 101-576.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $3,348,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-18; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$37,105,000, of which not to exceed $1,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b), and not to exceed 
$1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, $44,960,000: 
Provided, That joint board members and cooperating State commissioners 
may use Government transportation requests when traveling in connection 
with their official duties as such: Provided further, That $7,300,000 in 
fees collected in fiscal year 1994 by the Interstate Commerce Commission 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701 shall be made available to this appropriation 
in fiscal year 1994.

                   Payments for Directed Rail Service


                        (limitation on obligations)

    None of the funds provided in this Act shall be available for the 
execution of programs the obligations for which can reasonably be 
expected to exceed $475,000 for directed rail service authorized under 
49 U.S.C. 11125 or any other Act.

                         PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION

                       Panama Canal Revolving Fund

    For administrative expenses of the Panama Canal Commission, 
including not to exceed $11,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Board; not to exceed $5,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses of the Secretary; and not to 
exceed $30,000 for official reception and representation expenses of the 
Administrator, $51,742,000, to be derived from the Panama Canal 
Revolving Fund: Provided, That none of these funds may be used for the 
planning or execution of nonadministrative and capital programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $540,000,000 in fiscal year 1994: 
Provided further, That funds available to the Panama Canal Commission 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed thirty-five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only (including large heavy-
duty vehicles used to transport Commission personnel across the Isthmus 
of Panama), the purchase price of which shall not exceed $19,000 per 
vehicle.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                  Rebate of Saint Lawrence Seaway Tolls


                      (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For rebate of the United States portion of tolls paid for use of the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway, pursuant to Public Law 99-662, $9,707,000, to 
remain available until expended and to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $225,000 shall be 
available for expenses of administering the rebates.

             WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY

                            Interest Payments

    For necessary expenses for interest payments, to remain available 
until expended, $51,663,569: Provided, That these funds shall be 
disbursed pursuant to terms and conditions established by Public Law 96-
184 and the Initial Bond Repayment Participation Agreement.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS


                      (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Funds for the Panama Canal Commission may be apportioned 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1341 to the extent necessary to permit payment 
of such pay increases for officers or employees as may be authorized by 
administrative action pursuant to law that are not in excess of 
statutory increases granted for the same period in corresponding rates 
of compensation for other employees of the Government in comparable 
positions.
    Sec. 303. Funds appropriated under this Act for expenditures by the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall be available (1) except as 
otherwise authorized by the Act of September 30, 1950 (20 U.S.C. 236-
244), for expenses of primary and secondary schooling for dependents of 
Federal Aviation Administration personnel stationed outside the 
continental United States at costs for any given area not in excess of 
those of the Department of Defense for the same area, when it is 
determined by the Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the 
locality are unable to provide adequately for the education of such 
dependents, and (2) for transportation of said dependents between 
schools serving the area that they attend and their places of residence 
when the Secretary, under such regulations as may be prescribed, 
determines that such schools are not accessible by public means of 
transportation on a regular basis.
    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for a GS-18.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds for the Panama Canal Commission may be 
expended unless in conformance with the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977 
and any law implementing those treaties.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or implementation of any change in the current Federal status 
of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, and none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the implementation of any 
change in the current Federal status of the Turner-Fairbank Highway 
Research Center: Provided, That the Secretary may plan for further 
development of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center and for 
other compatible uses of the Center's real property: Provided further, 
That any such planning does not alter the Federal status of the Center's 
research and development operation.
    Sec. 309. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 310. (a) For fiscal year 1994 the Secretary of Transportation 
shall distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways by 
allocation in the ratio which sums authorized to be appropriated for 
Federal-aid highways that are apportioned or allocated to each State for 
such fiscal year bear to the total of the sums authorized to be 
appropriated for Federal-aid highways that are apportioned or allocated 
to all the States for such fiscal year.
    (b) During the period October 1 through December 31, 1993, no State 
shall obligate more than 25 per centum of the amount distributed to such 
State under subsection (a), and the total of all State obligations 
during such period shall not exceed 15 per centum of the total amount 
distributed to all States under such subsection.
    (c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall--
        (1) provide all States with authority sufficient to prevent 
    lapses of sums authorized to be appropriated for Federal-aid 
    highways that have been apportioned to a State, except in those 
    instances in which a State indicates its intention to lapse sums 
    apportioned under section 104(b)(5)(A) of title 23, United States 
    Code;
        (2) after August 1, 1994, revise a distribution of the funds 
    made available under subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the 
    amount distributed during that fiscal year and redistribute 
    sufficient amounts to those States able to obligate amounts in 
    addition to those previously distributed during that fiscal year 
    giving priority to those States having large unobligated balances of 
    funds apportioned under sections 103(e)(4), 104 and 144 of title 23, 
    United States Code, and under sections 1013(c) and 1015 of Public 
    Law 102-240;
        (3) not distribute amounts authorized for administrative 
    expenses, the Federal lands highway program, the intelligent vehicle 
    highway systems program, and amounts made available under sections 
    1040, 1047, 1064, 6001, 6006, 6023, and 6024 of Public Law 102-240, 
    and not more than $1,050,000 for section 5002 of Public Law 102-240 
    and $458,629 for the National Commission on Intermodal 
    Transportation authorized by section 5005 of Public Law 102-240. 
    Amounts for section 5002 and section 5005 of Public Law 102-240 
    shall be deemed necessary for administration under section 104(a) of 
    title 23, United States Code; and
        (4) notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall withhold 
    from initial distribution the fiscal year 1994 Federal-aid highways 
    obligation limitation set aside for Interstate Construction 
    Discretionary projects: Provided, That the Secretary shall 
    distribute only after August 1, 1994, such obligation limitation 
    withheld in accordance with this section to those States receiving 
    Interstate Discretionary allocations.
    (d) During the period October 1 through December 31, 1993, the 
aggregate amount of obligations under section 157 of title 23, United 
States Code, for projects covered under section 147 of the Surface 
Transportation Assistance Act of 1978, section 9 of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1981, sections 131(b), 131(j), and 404 of Public Law 97-
424, sections 1061, 1103 through 1109, 4008, and 6023(b)(8) and 
6023(b)(10) of Public Law 102-240, and for projects authorized by Public 
Law 99-500 and Public Law 100-17, shall not exceed $302,551,350.
    (e) During the period August 2 through September 30, 1994, the 
aggregate amount which may be obligated by all States pursuant to 
paragraph (d) shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the aggregate amount of 
funds apportioned or allocated to all States--
        (1) under sections 104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, 
    and 1013(c) and 1015 of Public Law 102-240, and
        (2) for highway assistance projects under section 103(e)(4) of 
    title 23, United States Code,
which would not be obligated in fiscal year 1994 if the total amount of 
the obligation limitation provided for such fiscal year in this Act were 
utilized.
    (f) Paragraph (e) shall not apply to any State which on or after 
August 1, 1994, has the amount distributed to such State under paragraph 
(a) for fiscal year 1994 reduced under paragraph (c)(2).
    Sec. 311. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than one hundred and ten political and 
Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, 
That none of the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on 
temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 312. Not to exceed $1,500,000 of the funds provided in this Act 
for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees.
    Sec. 313. The limitation on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
section 21 of the Federal Transit Act, previously made available for 
obligation, or to any other authority previously made available for 
obligation under the Discretionary Grants program.
    Sec. 314. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
construction of, or any other costs related to, the Central Automated 
Transit System (Downtown People Mover) in Detroit, Michigan.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 316. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any 
other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided, That no 
appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more than 12 per centum 
by all such transfers: Provided further, That any such transfer shall be 
submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 317. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 318. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel traffic 
safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara 
Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation 
Scheme.
    Sec. 319. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
instrument landing systems (along with associated approach lighting 
equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to Federal 
Aviation Administration design and performance specifications, the 
purchase of which was assisted by a Federal airport aid program, airport 
development aid program or airport improvement program grant. The 
Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such equipment, which shall 
thereafter be operated and maintained by the Federal Aviation 
Administration in accordance with agency criteria.
    Sec. 320. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Federal Aviation Administration for a new national weather 
graphics system.
    Sec. 321. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that (1) includes economic 
order quantity or long lead time material procurement in excess of 
$10,000,000 in any one year of the contract or (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the government's 
liability or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which the 
Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 322. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be made 
available for planning and executing a passenger manifest program by the 
Department of Transportation that only applies to United States flag 
carriers.
    Sec. 323. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or implementation of any change in the current Federal status 
of the Federal Aviation Administration's flight service stations at Red 
Bluff Airport in Red Bluff, California, and Tri-City Airport in Bristol, 
Tennessee.
    Sec. 324. Of the funds provided for ``Research, development, test, 
and evaluation'' in this Act, the Coast Guard shall utilize $1,000,000 
to enter into a grant agreement with the International Oceanographic 
Foundation, Inc. for research activities at the South Florida oil spill 
research center.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of section 1038(d) 
of Public Law 102-240.
    Sec. 326. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except for 
fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this Act 
or previous Acts under ``Federal Transit Administration, Discretionary 
Grants'' for projects specified in this Act or previous Acts or 
identified in reports accompanying this Act or previous Acts not 
obligated by September 30, 1996, shall be made available for other 
projects under section 3 of the Federal Transit Act, as amended.
    Sec. 327. Funds appropriated in Public Laws 101-516, 102-143, and 
102-388 for a structure to replace the bridge over the 17th Street 
Causeway in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, may be used either for a 
replacement bridge or a tunnel.
    Sec. 328. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be made 
available to any State, municipality or subdivision thereof that diverts 
revenue generated by a public airport in violation of the provisions of 
the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as amended.
    Sec. 329. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
implement or enforce regulations that would result in the withdrawal of 
a slot from an air carrier at O'Hare International Airport under section 
93.223 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations in excess of the 
total slots withdrawn from that air carrier as of October 31, 1993 if 
such additional slot is to be allocated to an air carrier or foreign air 
carrier under section 93.217 of title 14 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 330. None of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
planning, design or construction of an additional air carrier runway at 
Tulsa International Airport.
    Sec. 331. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to design, construct, erect, modify or otherwise 
place any sign in any State relating to any speed limit, distance, or 
other measurement on any highway if such sign establishes such speed 
limit, distance, or other measurement using the metric system.
    Sec. 332. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
funds the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of 
March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; popularly known as the ``Buy American 
Act'').
    Sec. 333. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be made 
available for any airport development project, or projects, proposed in 
any grant application submitted in accordance with title V of Public Law 
97-248 (96 Stat. 671; 49 U.S.C. App. 2201 et seq.) to any public agency, 
public authority, or public airport that imposes a fee for any passenger 
enplaning at the airport in any instance where the passenger did not pay 
for the air transportation which resulted in such enplanement, including 
any case in which the passenger obtained the ticket for the air 
transportation with a frequent flyer award coupon.
    Sec. 334. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, tolls 
collected for motor vehicles on any bridge connecting the boroughs of 
Brooklyn, New York, and Staten Island, New York, shall continue to be 
collected for only those vehicles exiting from such bridge in Staten 
Island.
    Sec. 335. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
remote radar coverage from the Roswell, New Mexico, airport unless the 
Federal Aviation Administration shows a significant cost savings by 
remote radar coverage based upon a cost study applying (1) actual 
personnel staffing levels used at comparable facilities, and (2) the 
actual equipment costs based on integration with existing systems rather 
than acquisition of wholly redundant systems. The Federal Aviation 
Administration will report back to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations with an appropriate study not later than December 31, 
1993.
    Sec. 336. Monies previously appropriated for the Chattanooga fixed 
rail project out of the section 3 ``New Construction'' account shall be 
made available for the Chattanooga electric vehicle project through the 
``Bus and Bus Facilities'' account.
    Sec. 337. Funds previously appropriated for Project Breakeven in 
Portland, Oregon, may, upon application by Tri-Met to the Federal 
Transit Administration, be expended on the Westside Light Rail Project 
in the Portland metropolitan region.
    Sec. 338. The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, 
pursuant to the Federal Aviation Administration's participation in the 
National Implementation Plan for the Modernization and Associated 
Restructuring of the National Weather Service, shall install seven 
standard Federal Aviation Administration redundant configuration NEXRAD 
radar systems, to provide coverage to each of the following areas in 
Alaska: Anchorage; Sitka; King Salmon; Middleton Island; Fairbanks; 
Nome; and Bethel: Provided, That the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall submit a study to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on the adequacy and effect on aviation 
safety of installing fewer than nine NEXRAD systems in Alaska.
    Sec. 339. (a) The Secretary of Transportation shall permit the 
obligation of not to exceed $4,000,000, apportioned under title 23, 
United States Code, section 104(b)(5)(B) for the State of Florida for 
operating expenses of the Tri-County Commuter Rail project in the area 
of Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach Counties, Florida, during each year 
that Interstate 95 is under reconstruction in such area.
    (b) The Secretary of Transportation shall permit the obligation of 
not to exceed $9,000,000, apportioned under title 23, United States 
Code, section 104(b)(1) for the State of North Carolina for capital 
improvements for their Rail Impact project in the Interstate 40/85 
corridor from Raleigh to Charlotte during reconstruction of Interstate 
40/85.
    Sec. 340. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for use for closing or otherwise reducing the services of any 
flight service station in the State of Alaska in operation on the date 
of the enactment of this Act, until after the expiration of the 90-day 
period following the date that the Secretary of Transportation has 
reported to Congress regarding the effects on safety of the flight 
service station closing and reduction in services plan being carried out 
by the Federal Aviation Administration in the State of Alaska on the 
date immediately preceding the date of the enactment of this Act. Such 
report shall be submitted no later than 90 days after enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 341. If any State or local interest, within one year following 
the date of the enactment of this Act, can demonstrate to the 
satisfaction of the National Railroad Passenger Corporation that such 
State or local interest can cover any potential operating losses 
including the cost of equipment depreciation, or that the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation will not incur or absorb any part of 
operational losses including the cost of equipment depreciation due to 
the initiation of new State-supported service, the Corporation shall 
initiate such new service: Provided, That the corporation determines 
equipment is available to initiate such service.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.