[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3759 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3759
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 
ending September

                    30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to provide emergency supplemental appropriations for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

             TITLE I--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER I

      DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                        Soil Conservation Service


                 watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and flood prevention 
operations'' to repair damage to the waterways and watersheds resulting 
from the Midwest floods and California fires of 1993 and other natural 
disasters, and for other purposes, $340,500,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That such assistance may be made available 
when the primary beneficiary is agriculture or agribusiness regardless 
of drainage size and no more than $50,000,000 may be spent as a result 
of this proviso for purposes not currently covered by the Soil 
Conservation Service: Provided further, That such amounts are designated 
by Congress as emergency requirements pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the cost of land and levee restoration exceeds the fair market 
value of an affected cropland, the Secretary may use sufficient amounts 
from funds provided under this heading to accept bids from willing 
sellers to enroll such cropland inundated by the Midwest floods of 1993 
in any of the affected States in the Wetlands Reserve Program, 
authorized by subchapter C of chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XII of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837).

           Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                      EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency conservation program'' for 
expenses resulting from the Midwest floods and California fires of 1993 
and other natural disasters, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1995: Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Commodity Credit Corporation

    Funds made available in Public Law 103-75 for the Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall be available to fund the costs of replanting, 
reseeding, or repairing damage to commercial trees and seedlings, 
including orchard and nursery inventory as a result of the Midwest 
floods of 1993 or other natural disasters: Provided, That the use of 
these funds for these purposes is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and that such use 
shall be available only to the extent the President designates such use 
an emergency requirement pursuant to such Act.
    The first proviso of the matter under the heading ``Commodity Credit 
Corporation'' of chapter I of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
for Relief from the Major, Widespread Flooding in the Midwest Act of 
1993 (Public Law 103-75; 107 Stat. 741) is amended by inserting after 
the colon at the end, the following: ``Provided further, That such funds 
shall also be available for payments to producers for the 1993, 1994, 
and 1995 crops of papaya if (1) the papaya would have been harvested if 
the papaya plants had not been destroyed by Hurricanes Andrew or Iniki 
or Typhoon Omar, and (2) the papaya plants would not have produced fruit 
for a lifetime total of more than 3 crop years based on normal 
cultivation practices:''. Payments to papaya producers shall be made 
only to the extent that claims for the payments are filed not later than 
the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided, That the use of funds for this purpose is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, and that such use shall be available only to the extent the 
President designates such use an emergency requirement pursuant to such 
Act.
    Funds made available in Public Law 103-75 for the Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall be made available to fund crop loss disaster 
assistance as under the provisions of Public Law 101-624 for 1993 losses 
of trees, shrubs, or nursery stock and inventory being grown for 
commercial sale, if such stock or inventory would normally have been 
sold in 1993, 1994, or 1995: Provided, That the use of these funds for 
these purposes is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and that such use shall be 
available only to the extent the President designates such use an 
emergency requirement pursuant to such Act.

                                CHAPTER 2

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                             RELATED AGENCY

                      Small Business Administration


                      disaster loans program account

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
January 1994 earthquake in Southern California and other disasters, 
$309,750,000, to remain available until expended, of which up to 
$55,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for 
``Salaries and expenses'' for associated administrative expenses: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.


                         administrative provisions

    Sec. 201. Section 24 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 651) is 
amended in subsection (a) by striking the period at the end thereof and 
by inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``, and shall give priority 
to a proposal to restore an area determined to be a major disaster by 
the President on a date not more than three years prior to the fiscal 
year for which the application is made.''.
    Sec. 202. Of the $258,900,000 made available under the heading 
``Small Business Administration, Salaries and Expenses'' in Public Law 
103-121, the $18,000,000 included in that total amount and designated 
under such heading to carry out section 24 of the Small Business Act, as 
amended, shall remain available until September 30, 1995.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$6,600,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$19,400,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$18,400,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$420,100,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$104,800,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $560,100,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $21,600,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$20,300,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1996: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', $200,000, 
to remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$26,800,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1996: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--CHAPTER 3

    Sec. 301. Notwithstanding sections 607 and 630 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2357 and 22 U.S.C. 2390), 
reimbursements received from the United Nations for expenses of the 
Department of Defense charged to the appropriations provided by this Act 
shall be deposited to the miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury.
    Sec. 302. Funds appropriated in this chapter shall only be obligated 
and expended to fund the incremental and associated costs of the 
Department of Defense incurred in connection with the ongoing United 
States operations relating to Somalia; the ongoing United States 
humanitarian airdrops, hospital operations, and enforcement of the no-
fly zone relating to Bosnia; the ongoing United States operations 
relating to Southwest Asia; and the ongoing United States operations 
supporting the maritime interception operations relating to Haiti.
    Sec. 303. During the current fiscal year, the Department of Defense 
is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed $250,000,000 for 
purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, United States Code, 
in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only from the Government of 
Kuwait, under that section: Provided, That, upon receipt, such 
contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be credited to the 
appropriation or fund which incurred such obligations.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil


                   flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood control and coastal 
emergencies'', $70,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    The prohibition against obligating funds for construction until 
sixty days from the date the Secretary transmits a report to the 
Congress in accordance with section 5 of the Reclamation Safety of Dams 
Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 509) is waived for the Crooked River Project, 
Ochoco Dam, Oregon, to allow for an earlier start of emergency repair 
work.

                                CHAPTER 5

DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families


                     low-income home energy assistance

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 103-112 and 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended, subject to the terms and conditions specified in 
Public Law 103-112, $300,000,000, if designated by the President as an 
emergency, may be allotted by the Secretary of the Department of Health 
and Human Services, as she determines is appropriate, to any one or more 
of the jurisdictions funded under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, to meet emergency needs.
    The second paragraph under this heading in Public Law 102-394 is 
amended as follows: strike ``June 30, 1994'' and insert ``September 30, 
1994''.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION


                                impact aid

    For carrying out disaster assistance activities resulting from the 
January 1994 earthquake in Southern California and other disasters as 
authorized under section 7 of Public Law 81-874, $165,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 1995: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      student financial assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Student financial assistance'' for 
payment of awards made under title IV, part A, subpart 1 of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965, as amended, $80,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 1995: Provided, That notwithstanding sections 
442(e) and 462(j) of such Act, the Secretary may reallocate, for use in 
award year 1994-1995 only, any excess funds returned to the Secretary of 
Education under the Federal Work-Study or Federal Perkins Loan programs 
from award year 1993-1994 to assist individuals who suffered financial 
harm from the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California and other 
disasters: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That fiscal year 1992 Federal Work-Study and 
Federal Perkins Loan funds that were reallocated to institutions for use 
in award year 1993-1994, pursuant to Public Law 103-75, and fiscal year 
1992 Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant funds that were 
reallocated to institutions by the Secretary for use in award year 1993-
1994, pursuant to section 413D(e) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 
as amended, to assist individuals who suffered financial harm as a 
result of the Midwest floods of 1993 shall remain available for use in 
award year 1994-1995 by institutions that received such reallocations.

                                CHAPTER 6

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                         emergency relief program

                           (highway trust fund)

    For the Emergency Fund authorized by 23 U.S.C. 125 to cover expenses 
arising from the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California and 
other disasters, $950,000,000; and in addition $400,000,000, which shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress, all to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the limitation on obligations per State in 23 U.S.C. 125(b) shall 
not apply to projects relating to such earthquake: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 23 U.S.C. 120(e), the Federal share for any project 
on the Federal-aid highway system related to such earthquake shall be 
100 percent for the costs incurred in the 180 day period beginning on 
the date of the earthquake: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of the funds made available by the Dire 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992 (Public Law 102-368) 
under ``Federal Highway Administration, Metropolitan Planning (Highway 
Trust Fund),'' $337,000 of the funds received by Hawaii shall be made 
available by the State of Hawaii directly to the County of Kauai, 
Hawaii, for conducting comprehensive reviews of transportation 
infrastructure needs incurred in connection with Hurricane Iniki, and, 
these funds shall remain available until expended.
    In addition, for emergency expenses resulting from the Loma Prieta 
earthquake of October 17, 1989, as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 125, 
$315,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                                CHAPTER 7

 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                     Veterans Health Administration


                               medical care

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
January 1994 earthquake in Southern California, $21,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $802,000 is available 
for transfer to General Operating Expenses, the Guaranty and Indemnity 
Program Account, and the Vocational Rehabilitation Loans Program 
Account: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.


                       construction, major projects

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, major projects'' for 
emergency expenses resulting from the January 1994 earthquake in 
Southern California and other disasters, $45,600,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as may be necessary may be 
transferred to the ``Medical care'' and ``Construction, minor projects'' 
accounts: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


                 annual contributions for assisted housing

    For an additional amount under this head, $225,000,000, to remain 
available until December 31, 1995, of which $200,000,000 shall be for 
rental assistance under the section 8 existing housing certificate 
program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) and the housing voucher program under section 
8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)), and 
$25,000,000 shall be for the modernization of existing public housing 
projects pursuant to section 14 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437l): Provided, That these funds shall be used first to 
replenish amounts used from the headquarters reserve established 
pursuant by section 213(d)(4)(A) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended, for assistance to victims of the 
January 1994 earthquake in Southern California: Provided further, That 
any amounts remaining after the headquarters reserve has been 
replenished shall be available under such programs for additional 
assistance to victims of the earthquake referred to above: Provided 
further, That in administering these funds, the Secretary may waive or 
specify alternative requirements for any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or any use by the recipient of these funds, 
except for the requirements relating to fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the obligation and use of 
such funds and would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of the 
statute or regulation: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended.


                           flexible subsidy fund

    For emergency assistance to owners of eligible multifamily housing 
projects damaged by the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California 
who are either insured or formerly insured under the National Housing 
Act, as amended, or otherwise eligible for assistance under section 
201(c) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a), in the program of assistance for troubled 
multifamily housing projects under the Housing and Community Development 
Amendments of 1978, as amended, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1995: Provided, That assistance to an owner of a 
multifamily housing project assisted, but not insured under the National 
Housing Act, may be made if the project owner and the mortgagee have 
provided or agreed to provide assistance to the project in a manner as 
determined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: Provided 
further, That assistance is for the repair of damage or the recovery of 
losses directly attributable to the Southern California earthquake of 
1994: Provided further, That in administering these funds, the Secretary 
may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any 
statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with 
the obligation by the Secretary or any use by the recipient of these 
funds, except for statutory requirements relating to fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the obligation and use of 
such funds, and would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of 
the statute or regulation: Provided further, That after assisting 
economically viable FHA insured projects, to the extent funds remain 
available the Secretary may provide assistance to economically viable 
projects assisted with a loan made under section 312 of the National 
Housing Act of 1964 and projects assisted under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 but not insured under the National Housing 
Act: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     Federal Housing Administration

    For higher mortgage limits and improved access to mortgage insurance 
for victims of the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California, title 
II of the National Housing Act, as amended, is further amended, as 
follows:
        (1) In section 203(h), by--
            (A) striking out ``section 102(2) and 401 of the Disaster 
        Relief and Emergency Assistance Act'' and inserting ``Robert T. 
        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act''; and
            (B) adding the following new sentence at the end thereof: 
        ``In any case in which the single family residence to be insured 
        under this subsection is within a jurisdiction in which the 
        President has declared a major disaster to have occurred, the 
        Secretary is authorized, for a temporary period not to exceed 18 
        months from the date of such Presidential declaration, to enter 
        into agreements to insure a mortgage which involves a principal 
        obligation of up to 100 percent of the dollar limitation 
        determined under section 305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan 
        Mortgage Corporation Act for single family residence, and not in 
        excess of 100 percent of the appraised value.''.
        (2) In section 203(k), by adding at the end thereof the 
    following new paragraph:
        ``(6) The Secretary is authorized, for a temporary period not to 
    exceed 18 months from the date on which the President has declared a 
    major disaster to have occurred, to enter into agreements to insure 
    a rehabilitation loan under this subsection which involves a 
    principal obligation of up to 100 percent of the dollar limitation 
    determined under section 305(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
    Corporation Act for a residence of the applicable size, if such loan 
    is secured by a structure and property that are within a 
    jurisdiction in which the President has declared such disaster, 
    pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
    Assistance Act, and if such loan otherwise conforms to the loan-to-
    value ratio and other requirements of this subsection.''.
        (3) In section 234(c), by inserting after ``203(b)(2)'' in the 
    third sentence the phrase: ``or pursuant to section 203(h) under the 
    conditions described in section 203(h)''.
    Eligibility for loans made under the authority granted by the 
preceding paragraph shall be limited to persons whose principal 
residence was damaged or destroyed as a result of the January 1994 
earthquake in Southern California: Provided, That the provisions under 
this heading shall be effective only for the 18-month period following 
the date of enactment of this Act.

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', as 
authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, for emergency expenses resulting from the January 1994 earthquake 
in Southern California or the Midwest Floods of 1993, $500,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1996 for all activities eligible 
under such title I except those activities reimbursable by the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or available through the Small 
Business Administration (SBA): Provided, That from this amount, the 
Secretary may transfer up to $75,000,000 to the ``HOME investment 
partnerships program'', as authorized under title II of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended (Public Law 101-
625), to remain available until expended, as an additional amount for 
such emergency expenses for all activities eligible under such title II 
except activities reimbursable by FEMA or available through SBA: 
Provided further, That the recipients of amounts under this 
appropriation, including the foregoing transfer (if any), shall use such 
amounts first to replenish amounts previously obligated under their 
Community Development Block Grant or HOME programs, respectively, in 
connection with the Southern California earthquake of January 1994: 
Provided further, That in administering these funds, the Secretary may 
waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any 
statute or regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with 
the obligation by the Secretary or any use by the recipient of these 
funds, except for statutory requirements relating to fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the obligation and use of 
such funds, and would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of 
the statute or regulation: Provided further, That with respect to funds 
made available by this head that are proposed to be used by recipients 
affected by the Midwest floods of 1993 for the purpose of hazard 
mitigation through flood plain real property acquisition or relocation, 
the Secretary shall secure assurances from grantees that such activities 
will be subject to the requirements of sections 3 and 4 of the Hazard 
Mitigation and Relocation Assistance Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-181, 
107 Stat. 2054-2056): Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  Federal Emergency Management Agencies


                              disaster relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'' for the January 
1994 earthquake in Southern California and other disasters, 
$4,709,000,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.


               emergency management planning and assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Management Planning and 
Assistance'', to carry out activities under the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), $15,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to study the January 1994 earthquake 
in Southern California in order to enhance seismic safety throughout the 
United States: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                                CHAPTER 8

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
January 1994 earthquake in Southern California, the Midwest floods and 
other disasters, $550,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That these funds may be transferred to any authorized Federal 
governmental activity to meet the requirements of such disasters: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to Congress: Provided further, That the President's request shall 
specifically identify programs, projects and activities to be funded and 
no funds shall be available for 15 days after the submission of the 
request: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.
    This title may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act of 1994''.

    TITLE II--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING 
                           SEPTEMBER 30, 1994

                                CHAPTER 1

      DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      Agricultural Research Service


                            (transfer of funds)

    Funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 and 
subsequently transferred to the Human Nutrition Information Service 
pursuant to Secretary's Memorandum No. 1020-39, dated September 30, 
1993, are transferred to the Agricultural Research Service: Provided, 
That funds appropriated by Public Law 103-111 for the functions of the 
former Human Nutrition Information Service shall be made available only 
to the Agricultural Research Service.

                            Extension Service


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Extension Service'', $1,400,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1995, of which up to $750,000 may 
be transferred to the Cooperative State Research Service.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service


                            marketing services

                            (transfer of funds)

    Funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 and 
subsequently transferred to the Agricultural Cooperative Service 
pursuant to Secretary's Memorandum No. 1020-39, dated September 30, 
1993, are transferred to the Rural Development Administration.


                    payments to states and possessions

                            (transfer of funds)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 
and subsequently transferred to the Agricultural Cooperative Service 
pursuant to Secretary's Memorandum No. 1020-39, dated September 30, 
1993, $435,000 are transferred to the Rural Development Administration.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'' from fees 
collected pursuant to section 736 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act, not to exceed $2,284,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees derived from applications received during 
fiscal year 1994 shall be credited to the appropriation current in the 
year in which fees are collected and subject to the fiscal year 1994 
limitation.

                                CHAPTER 2

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'' to defray 
expenses for the automation of fingerprint identification services and 
related costs, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That these funds shall be available to the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to hire 500 employees to carry out the automation of 
fingerprint services without regard to any employment ceiling imposed by 
the President or by law.

                        administrative provision

    For fiscal year 1994 only, the Director of the Bureau of Justice 
Assistance, upon good cause shown, may waive the provisions of section 
504(f) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 for 
projects located in communities covered under a Presidentially declared 
disaster pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration


                         administrative provision

    The Secretary of Transportation may use up to $1,500,000 of the 
proceeds derived from the sale or disposal of National Defense Reserve 
Fleet vessels, that are currently collected and retained by the Maritime 
Administration, to relocate, repair and lay up the Nuclear Ship 
SAVANNAH.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $550,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    United States Information Agency


                           salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other Act, not to 
exceed $2,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading in 
Public Law 103-121 may be used to carry out projects involving security 
construction and related improvements for Agency facilities not 
physically located together with Department of State facilities abroad: 
Provided, That such funds may remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 3

             DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                            resource management

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Resource management'' to carry out 
the Forest Plan in the Pacific Northwest, $2,100,000, of which $400,000 
shall be derived by transfer from the ``Oil spill emergency fund'' and 
$1,700,000 shall be derived by transfer from the ``Compact of Free 
Association''.

                            land acquisition


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Land acquisition'' for the 
acquisition of land or interests in land, from willing sellers, in the 
Midwest area flooded in 1993, $4,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be derived by transfer from amounts appropriated to the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service under the heading ``Construction 
and anadromous fish'' in Public Law 103-75, to be used for nonstructural 
measures to meet flood damage control and fish and wildlife habitat 
restoration objectives.

                          National Park Service


                               construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', to replenish funds 
used for emergency actions related to storm damaged facilities within 
National Park System areas, $13,102,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                   land acquisition and state assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Land acquisition and State 
assistance'', $1,274,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended, to replenish 
funds used for emergency actions related to storm damaged facilities 
within National Park System areas; and in addition, an additional amount 
not to exceed $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
derived by transfer from balances under the heading ``Construction'', 
for project modifications authorized by section 104 of the Everglades 
National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, to be available for 
Federal assistance to the State of Florida for acquisition of lands or 
interests therein adjacent to, or affecting the restoration of, natural 
water flows to Everglades National Park and Florida Bay.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

    The paragraph under this heading in Public Law 103-138 is amended by 
inserting the words ``not to exceed'' before the amount 
``$316,111,000''.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $12,363,000, to 
remain available until expended.


  indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                 indians

    The paragraph under this heading in Public Law 103-138 is amended by 
adding the following before the last period: ``, and (3) to reimburse 
Indian trust fund account holders for loss(es) to their respective 
accounts where the claim for said loss(es) has been reduced to a 
judgment or settlement agreement approved by the Department of 
Justice''.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

             Administrative Provisions, Department of Energy

    Section 303 of Public Law 97-257, as amended, is repealed.
    The seventh proviso under the head ``Clean Coal Technology'' in 
Public Law 101-512, and the seventh proviso under the head ``Clean Coal 
Technology'' in Public Law 102-154, both concerning Federal employment, 
are repealed.

                                CHAPTER 4

DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


          Advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For an additional amount for ``Advances to the unemployment trust 
fund and other funds'', $61,400,000, to remain available until September 
30, 1995.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics


                           Salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'' for the 
current population parallel survey, $10,100,000.

                                CHAPTER 5

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For an additional amount for ``Office of the Secretary'', $450,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate


                          secretary of the senate

    For an additional amount for expenses of the ``Office of the 
Secretary of the Senate'', $600,000.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased

                           Members of Congress

  For payment to Karen A. Henry, widow of Paul B. Henry, late a 
Representative from the State of Michigan, $133,600.

                                CHAPTER 6

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard


                            operating expenses

                           (transfers of funds)

    Of funds provided under this heading under Public Law 103-75, 
$4,000,000 shall, in combination with funds made available under this 
heading under Public Law 102-368, be made available for operating, 
acquisition, construction, and improvement costs associated with the 
Midwest floods, and shall remain available until expended.


                acquisition, construction, and improvements

                            (transfer of funds)

    Of the funds made available under this heading under Public Law 102-
368, $2,000,000 shall be made available for costs associated with the 
Midwest floods, and shall remain available until expended.

                     Federal Railroad Administration


                pennsylvania station redevelopment project

    For grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for engineering and 
design activities to enable the James A. Farley Post Office in New York 
City to be used as a train station and commercial center: Provided, That 
the Secretary may retain from these funds such amounts as the Secretary 
shall deem appropriate to undertake the environmental and historic 
preservation analyses associated with this project: Provided further, 
That no funds provided under this head shall be available for 
construction until the Secretary submits a report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations regarding the financing of necessary 
improvements to the existing Pennsylvania Station and the financing of 
the operating and capital costs accruing to the commuter rail 
authorities operating in said station as a result of this redevelopment 
project.


      trust fund share of next generation rail technology development

                           (highway trust fund)

    The obligation limitation for the ``High-Speed Ground 
Transportation'' program in Public Law 103-122 is amended by deleting 
``$3,500,000'' and inserting ``$7,952,000''.

                            General Provision

    Section 310(c)(3) of the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994, is amended by--
        (a) inserting ``6005,'' after ``6001,''; and
        (b) inserting ``: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
    provision of law, amounts made available under section 6005 of 
    Public Law 102-240 shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
    Federal-aid highways and highway-safety construction programs under 
    the head `Federal-Aid Highways' in this Act'' after ``section 104(a) 
    of title 23, United States Code''.

                                CHAPTER 7

            TREASURY, POSTAL SERVICE, AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT

                    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

                      Armstrong Resolution Account

    For necessary expenses for electronic communications records 
management activities for compliance with and resolution of Armstrong v. 
Executive Office of the President, $13,125,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                                CHAPTER 8

 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration


                         Compensation and pensions

    For an additional amount for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
$698,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                           Readjustment benefits

    For an additional amount for ``Readjustment benefits'', 
$103,200,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Veterans Health Administration


        Medical Administration and Miscellaneous Operating Expenses

                               (By transfer)

    For an additional amount for ``Medical administration and 
miscellaneous operating expenses'', $2,500,000, to be derived by 
transfer from amounts appropriated under the head ``Medical care'' in 
Public Law 103-124.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs

                     Federal Housing Administration


              FHA--Mutual mortgage insurance program account

    During fiscal year 1994, the limitation on commitments to guarantee 
loans to carry out the purposes of section 203(b) of the National 
Housing Act, as amended, is increased by an additional loan principal of 
not to exceed $20,000,000,000.


               FHA--General and special risk program account

    The limitation on commitments during fiscal year 1994 to guarantee 
loans authorized by sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3(b) and 1735c(f)), is increased by an 
additional loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, of not 
to exceed $2,000,000,000.


                         Administrative Provisions

    Of the $260,000,000 earmarked in Public Law 102-389, in the 14th 
proviso under the head Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing, for 
special purpose grants (106 Stat. 1571, 1584), $1,300,000 made available 
for continued assistance to two sugarcane mills on the Hilo-Hamakua 
Coast of Hawaii shall also be available to community-based and employee-
support organizations along the Hamakua Coast, to address social and 
economic needs in such area.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the City of Slidell, 
Louisiana, is authorized to submit not later than 10 days following the 
enactment of this Act, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall consider, the final statement of community development 
objectives and projected use of funds required by section 104(a)(1) of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(a)(1)) 
in connection with a grant to the City of Slidell under title I of such 
Act for fiscal year 1994.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Environmental Protection Agency


                Water infrastructure/state revolving funds

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, the $500,000,000 earmarked to not become available until May 31, 
1994, shall instead not become available until September 30, 1994.

                    Executive Office of the President

                 Office of Science and Technology Policy

    The proviso under this heading in Public Law 103-124 is repealed.

  Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality

    For an additional amount for ``Council on Environmental Quality and 
Office of Environmental Quality'', $300,000.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                         Research and development

    For an additional amount for ``Research and development'', 
$40,000,000, of which $20,000,000 shall become available for obligation 
on October 1, 1994: Provided, That these funds shall be available for 
the commercial mid-deck augmentation module, in addition to such amounts 
as may be subsequently appropriated.
    The second proviso under this heading in Public Law 103-124 is 
amended to read as follows: ``Provided further, That of the funds 
provided under this heading, for the redesigned Space Station, (1) not 
to exceed $160,000,000 shall be for termination costs connected only 
with Space Station Freedom contracts, (2) not to exceed $172,000,000 
shall be for space station operations and utilization capability 
development, and (3) not to exceed $99,000,000 shall be for supporting 
development:''.
    The fifth and sixth provisos under this heading in Public Law 103-
124 are deleted and the fourth proviso thereunder is amended to read: 
``Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
not to exceed $117,200,000 shall be available for activities to support 
cooperative space ventures between the United States and the Republic of 
Russia outlined in the joint agreement of September 2, 1993:''.


                      Research and program management

    For an additional amount for ``Research and program management'', 
$56,000,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 2001. (a) Section 1205(a)(1) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act of 1993 is amended by inserting before the semicolon the following: 
``and amounts transferred by the Architect of the Capitol from funds 
appropriated to the Architect''.
    (b) Section 1205(b) of such Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and payments'' and inserting ``, payments''; 
    and
        (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
    and payments pursuant to Senate Resolution 139, 103d Congress, 
    agreed to August 4, 1993''.
    (c) Section 1205 of such Act is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) In case of an award under section 307 of Public Law 102-166, a 
payment pursuant to an agreement under section 310 of such Public Law, 
or a payment pursuant to Senate Resolution 139, 103d Congress, agreed to 
August 4, 1993, to an employee described in section 301(c)(1)(B) of such 
Public Law, to an applicant for a position described in section 
301(c)(1)(C) of such Public Law that is to be occupied by such an 
employee, or to an individual described in section 301(c)(1)(D) of such 
Public Law who was formerly such an employee, the Architect of the 
Capitol, at the direction of the Secretary of the Senate, shall transfer 
to the account established by subsection (a), from funds that are 
appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol under the heading `Capitol 
Buildings and Grounds' under the subheading `senate office buildings' 
and that are otherwise available for obligation at the time the award is 
ordered or the agreement is entered into, an amount sufficient to pay 
such award or make such payment.''.
    (d) The amendments made by this section shall be effective on and 
after October 1, 1992.
    Sec. 2002. (a) The Senate finds that--
        (1) historically it is the policy of the Federal Government to 
    provide financial and other assistance to the victims of natural 
    disasters;
        (2) since fiscal year 1988, the Congress has enacted 6 major 
    disaster relief supplemental appropriations Acts providing a total 
    of $17,012,000,000 in budget authority for Federal disaster 
    assistance for domestic disasters;
        (3) the provision of Federal disaster assistance reflects the 
    traditions and values of the American people who have always been 
    willing to provide help to those who have been victimized by 
    catastrophic events and forces beyond their control;
        (4) the unprecedented growth in the cost of disaster assistance 
    needs to be reconciled with the restraints imposed on discretionary 
    spending and with the deficit reduction goals of the Budget 
    Enforcement Act of 1990 and the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
    1993, under which significant progress is being made in reducing the 
    Federal deficit; and
        (5) a prospective policy should be developed for anticipating 
    and funding disaster needs and other emergencies in keeping with 
    continuing fiscal constraints on the Federal Government.
    (b) It is the sense of the Senate that--
        (1) there should be established in the Senate a Bipartisan Task 
    Force on Funding Disaster Relief; and
        (2) the Task Force should--
            (A) consult with the Senate committees with jurisdiction 
        over disaster relief programs;
            (B) compile information on the history of Federal disaster 
        relief and recovery funding;
            (C) evaluate the types and amounts of Federal financial 
        assistance provided to individuals, State and local governments, 
        and nonprofit organizations after disasters strike, as well as 
        relevant insurance coverage and loss experience;
            (D) consider the relationship between funding disaster 
        relief and complying with the deficit control requirements of 
        the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990, the Omnibus Budget 
        Reconciliation Act of 1993, and other deficit control provisions 
        enacted prior to 1990; and
            (E) report its findings, options, and recommendations to the 
        Senate with regard to the consideration of future disaster 
        assistance funding requests prior to the convening of the 104th 
        Congress.
    Sec. 2003. (a) Amendment to Title 31.--Section 301(d) of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``an Under Secretary for 
Enforcement,'' after ``2 Under Secretaries,''.
    (b) Amendment to Title 5.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of the Treasury (or 
Counselor).'' and striking ``Under Secretary of the Treasury for 
Monetary Affairs.'' and inserting in lieu thereof, ``Under Secretaries 
of the Treasury (3).''.

             TITLE III--RESCINDING CERTAIN BUDGET AUTHORITY

                                CHAPTER 1

      DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                   Cooperative State Research Service


                               (rescissions)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
111, $12,463,000 are rescinded, including $4,375,000 of contracts and 
grants for agricultural research under the Act of August 4, 1965, as 
amended; $6,729,000 for competitive research grants under section 2(b) 
of the Act of August 4, 1965; and $1,359,000 for necessary expenses of 
Cooperative State Research Service activities.

                        buildings and facilities


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
111, $2,897,000 are rescinded.

                        Soil Conservation Service


                 watershed and flood prevention operations

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 
for emergency measures as provided by sections 403-405 of the 
Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2203-2205), $21,158,000 are 
rescinded.

                       Farmers Home Administration


               rural housing insurance fund program account

                               (rescissions)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 103-111, 
the following amounts are rescinded: for the cost of low-income housing 
section 502 direct loans, $20,870,000; for the cost of section 515 
rental housing loans, $12,443,000; for the cost of section 504 housing 
repair loans, $1,204,000; for the cost of section 514 farm labor housing 
loans, $483,000.


            agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of credit 
sales of acquired property direct loans in Public Law 103-111, 
$8,000,000 are rescinded.


                rural development loan fund program account

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 
for the cost of direct loans, $10,000,000 are rescinded.


                       rural housing voucher program

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
111, $25,000,000 are rescinded.

                  rural water and waste disposal grants


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
111, $12,500,000 are rescinded.

                          salaries and expenses


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
111, $12,167,000 are rescinded.

                  Rural Electrification Administration


         Rural Electrification and Telephone Loans Program Account

                               (rescissions)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 103-111, 
the following amounts are rescinded: for the cost of 5 percent rural 
electrification direct loans, $1,694,000; for the cost of 5 percent 
rural telephone direct loans, $1,611,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service


                    commodity supplemental food program

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
341, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Public Law 480 Program Account


                               (rescissions)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 
for title III, $25,000,000 are rescinded, and of the amounts made 
available for ocean freight differential costs, $4,600,000 are 
rescinded.
    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-111 
for the cost of direct credit agreements, including the cost of 
modifying credit agreements, $22,900,000 are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 2

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                               construction

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
121, $3,000,000 are rescinded.

                   International Trade Administration


                       Operations and Administration

                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading, $2,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                  Minority Business Development Agency


                       minority business development

                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-121 
for a grant to the Catawba Indian Tribe, $500,000 are rescinded.

                   Economic Development Administration


                    economic development revolving fund

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the unobligated balances in the Economic Development Revolving 
Fund, $29,000,000 are rescinded.

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs


                         buying power maintenance

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the balances in the Buying Power Maintenance account, $8,800,000 
are rescinded.


                           new diplomatic posts

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available for the United States Information Agency 
under this heading in Public Law 102-395, $1,000,000 are rescinded.

                              THE JUDICIARY

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services


                             defender services

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
121, $3,000,000 are rescinded.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  Board for International Broadcasting


                           ISRAEL RELAY STATION

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading, $1,700,000 are 
rescinded.

                      Small Business Administration


                      Business Loans Program Account

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-121 
for the cost of guaranteed loans, $4,100,000 are rescinded.

                    United States Information Agency


                           salaries and expenses

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
121, $2,000,000 are rescinded.


                educational and cultural exchange programs

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
121, $850,000 are rescinded.


                            radio construction

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
121, $2,000,000 are rescinded.

                           North/South Center


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading, $1,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 3

               DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
139, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
396, $12,800,000 are rescinded.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
139, $42,500,000 are rescinded.

                      Procurement, Defense Agencies


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
172, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
139, $14,500,000 are rescinded.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
396, $50,000,000 are rescinded.
    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
139, $6,000,000 are rescinded.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
139, $104,500,000 are rescinded.

                       CHAPTER 4--ENERGY AND WATER

                               DEVELOPMENT

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil


                          general investigations

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
377 and prior years' Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, 
$24,970,000 are rescinded.


                           construction, general

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
377 and prior years' Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, 
$97,319,000 are rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation


                           Construction Program

                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Laws 102-
27, 102-368, 102-377 and prior years' Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Acts, $30,000,000 are rescinded.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

            Energy Supply Research and Development Activities


                               (rescissions)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
126, $97,300,000 are rescinded: Provided, That the reduction shall be 
taken as a general reduction, applied to each program equally, so as not 
to eliminate or disproportionately reduce any program, project or 
activity in the Energy Supply, Research and Development Activities 
account as included in the reports accompanying Public Law 103-126.
    Of the funds made available under this heading for superconducting 
magnetic energy storage in Public Law 103-126, $10,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                Uranium Supply and Enrichment Activities


                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
377 and prior years' Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts, 
$42,000,000 are rescinded.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
126, $12,700,000 are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 5

       FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                    MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                  International Financial Institutions


      contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                               development

                               (rescission)

    Of the unexpended or unobligated balances made available for payment 
to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the 
United States share of the paid-in portion of the increases in capital 
stock for the General Capital Increase, $27,910,500 are rescinded.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    Notwithstanding Public Law 103-87, the United States Governor of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development may subscribe 
without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital portion of the 
United States share of the increases in capital stock in an amount not 
to exceed $902,439,500.

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT


                          development assistance

                               (rescission)

    Of the unexpended or unobligated balances of funds (including 
earmarked funds) made available for fiscal years 1987 through 1993 to 
carry out the provisions of sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $104,018,500 are rescinded.


   assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

                               (rescission)

    Of the unexpended or unobligated balances of funds made available 
under this heading and title VI of Public Law 103-87, and prior Acts 
making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs, for assistance for the new independent states of the 
former Soviet Union, $55,000,000 are rescinded.

                          economic support fund


                               (rescission)

    Of the unexpended or unobligated balances of funds (including 
earmarked funds) made available for fiscal years 1987 through 1993 to 
carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $61,350,000 are rescinded.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


                    foreign military financing program

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading (including earmarked 
funds) in Public Law 102-391 and prior appropriations Acts, for grants 
to carry out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act, $91,283,000 are rescinded.


                            military assistance

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available (including earmarked funds) under this 
heading in Public Law 102-391 and prior appropriations Acts, $438,000 
are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 6

             DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                     CONSTRUCTION and anadromous fish

                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 100-446 
and Public Law 102-154, $3,874,000 are rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                       Biomass Energy Development


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds available under this heading, $16,275,000 are 
rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 7

DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR


                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated in Public Law 103-112 for salaries and 
expenses and administrative costs of the Department of Labor, $4,000,000 
are rescinded: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may use up to 
$1,750,000 otherwise appropriated to the Department of Labor for fiscal 
year 1994 for activities required by the North American Free Trade 
Agreement Labor Supplemental Agreement, including obligations of the 
United States abroad pursuant to treaties, international agreements and 
binational contracts, distribution to international organizations 
established by the North American Free Trade Agreement on Labor 
Cooperation between the Government of the United States, the Government 
of Canada, and the Government of the United Mexican States.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated in Public Law 103-112 for salaries and 
expenses and administrative costs (including equipment) of the 
Department of Health and Human Services (except the Social Security 
Administration), $27,500,000 are rescinded.

                     Social Security Administration


                   Supplemental Security Income Program

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated in the first paragraph under this 
heading in Public Law 103-112, $10,909,000 are rescinded.


                   Limitation on Administrative Expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-112 
to invest in a state-of-the-art computing network, $80,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated in Public Law 103-112 for salaries and 
expenses and administrative costs of the Department of Education, 
$8,500,000 are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 8

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for the Senate under the heading 
``Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate'' in Public Law 102-90, 
$1,500,000 are rescinded.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses


                               (rescissions)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 101-
520, $633,000 are rescinded in the amounts specified for the following 
headings and accounts:

           ``allowances and expenses'', $633,000, as follows:

    ``Official Expenses of Members'', $128,000; ``supplies, materials, 
administrative costs and Federal tort claims'', $125,000; ``net expenses 
of purchase, lease and maintenance of office equipment'', $364,000; and 
``Government contributions to employees' life insurance fund, retirement 
funds, Social Security fund, Medicare fund, health benefits fund, and 
worker's and unemployment compensation'', $16,000.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
90, $2,352,000 are rescinded in the amounts specified for the following 
headings and accounts:

                 ``house leadership offices'', $253,000;

             ``committee on the budget (studies)'', $4,000;

         ``standing committees, special and select'', $378,000;

           ``allowances and expenses'', $943,000, as follows:

    ``Official Expenses of Members'', $876,000; and ``stenographic 
reporting of committee hearings'', $67,000;

 ``committee on appropriations (studies and investigations)'', $595,000;

       ``salaries, officers and employees'', $179,000, as follows:

    ``Office of the Postmaster'', $19,000; ``for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Historian'', $26,000; ``the House Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus'', $73,000; and 
``the House Republican Conference'', $61,000.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
69, $1,000,000 are rescinded.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
69, $650,000 are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 9

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under Public Law 103-110, the following 
funds are hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the specified 
amounts:
        Military Construction, Army, $22,319,000;
        Military Construction, Navy, $13,969,000;
        Military Construction, Air Force, $24,787,000;
        Military Construction, Defense-Wide, $13,663,000;
        Military Construction, Army National Guard, $7,568,000;
        Military Construction, Air National Guard, $6,187,000;
        Military Construction, Army Reserve, $2,551,000;
        Military Construction, Naval Reserve, $626,000;
        Military Construction, Air Force Reserve, $1,862,000; and
        Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part III, $507,692,000:
Provided, That within funds available for ``Base Realignment and Closure 
Account, Part III'' for fiscal year 1994, not less than $200,000,000 
shall be available solely for environmental restoration and compliance.

                               CHAPTER 10

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Office of the Secretary


                         payments to air carriers

                      (airport and airway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds available for programs authorized under section 419 of 
the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1389), 
$10,067,000 are rescinded.


                              rental payments

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
122, $1,781,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Aviation Administration


                                operations

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
122, $750,000 are rescinded.


                         facilities and equipment

                     (airport and airways trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the available balances under this heading, $65,380,300 are 
rescinded.

                       grants-in-aid for airports


                      (airport and airway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under section 14 of Public 
Law 91-258 as amended, $488,200,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Highway Administration


                           (highway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for specific highway projects, 
$29,832,843 are rescinded: Provided, That of the amounts made available 
for Federal-aid highways pursuant to provisions of the Surface 
Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, $2,517,473 
are rescinded: Provided further, That of the authority made available 
for bridges on Federal dams pursuant to section 320 of title 23, United 
States Code, $9,478,139 are rescinded: Provided further, That this 
rescission shall not apply to any emergency relief project under section 
125 of title 23, United States Code.

                       right-of-way revolving fund


                           (highway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under section 108 of title 
23, United States Code, and section 7 of Public Law 90-495, $20,000,000 
are rescinded.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration


                       highway traffic safety grants

                           (highway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds available for programs authorized under sections 153, 
402, and 408 of title 23, United States Code, and section 209 of Public 
Law 99-599, as amended, the amounts in excess of the funds made 
available for obligation in Public Law 103-122 are rescinded.

                     Federal Railroad Administration


                     Railroad research and development

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
122, $17,000,000 are rescinded: Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading in Public Law 103-122 may be obligated using 
contracts and grants.

                     Federal Transit Administration


                           Discretionary grants

                               (rescission)

                           (highway trust fund)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 99-190 
and Public Law 103-122, $808,935 and $2,500,000, respectively, are 
rescinded.

                               CHAPTER 11

            TREASURY, POSTAL SERVICE, AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Internal Revenue Service


                            information systems

                               (rescission)

    Of the amount made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
123, $6,400,000 are rescinded.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                     General Services Administration


                          federal buildings fund

                 (limitations on availability of revenue)

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-27 
for District of Columbia: General Services Administration, Southeast 
Federal Center, Headquarters, $97,691,000 are rescinded: Provided, That 
of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-393 for 
District of Columbia: Army Corps of Engineers, Headquarters, $10,000,000 
are rescinded: Provided further, That of the funds made available in 
Public Law 101-509 for District of Columbia: Southeast Federal Center, 
$20,000,000 are rescinded: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading in Public Law 103-123 for rental of space, 
$6,000,000 are rescinded: Provided further, That the Federal courthouse 
in Spartanburg, South Carolina shall be known and designated as the 
``Donald Stuart Russell Federal Courthouse'' and that any reference in 
any law, regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the United 
States to the building referred to in this proviso shall be deemed to be 
a reference to the ``Donald Stuart Russell Federal Courthouse''.

                               CHAPTER 12

 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


     Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere Grants (HOPE 
                                 Grants)

                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 103-124, an 
additional $66,000,000 are rescinded.


                 Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing

                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-124 
and prior years, $100,000,000 are rescinded: Provided, That of the 
foregoing amount, $25,000,000 shall be deducted from the amounts 
earmarked for amendments to section 8 contracts other than contracts for 
projects developed under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 and 
$75,000,000 shall be deducted from the amounts earmarked for 
preservation activities.


         assistance for the renewal of section 8 subsidy contracts

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-124 
and prior years, $76,000,000 are rescinded.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $770,000 are rescinded.

                     Environmental Protection Agency


                water infrastructure/state revolving funds

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $22,000,000 are rescinded.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency


               emergency management planning and assistance

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $2,000,000 are rescinded.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                         Research and development

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $63,000,000 are rescinded.


              Space flight, control, and data communications

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $32,000,000 are rescinded.


                        Construction of facilities

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $25,000,000 are rescinded.

                       National Science Foundation


                      research and related activities

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $5,000,000 are rescinded.


                     academic research infrastructure

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $5,000,000 are rescinded.

                       National Service Initiative


              corporation for national and community service

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 103-
124, $5,000,000 are rescinded.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 402. The Architect of the Capitol shall be considered the 
agency for the purposes of the election in section 801(b)(2)(B) of the 
National Energy Conservation Policy Act and the head of the agency for 
purposes of subsection (b)(2)(C) of such section.


  prohibition of benefits for individuals not lawfully within the united 
                                 states

    Sec. 403. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide any benefit or assistance to any individual in the United 
States when it is known to a Federal entity or official to which the 
funds are made available that--
        (1) the individual is not lawfully within the United States;
        (2) the direct Federal assistance or benefit to be provided is 
    other than search and rescue; emergency medical care; emergency mass 
    care; emergency shelter; clearance of roads and construction of 
    temporary bridges necessary to the performance of emergency tasks 
    and essential community services; warning of further risks or 
    hazards; dissemination of public information and assistance 
    regarding health and safety measures; the provision of food, water, 
    medicine, and other essential needs, including movement of supplies 
    or persons; and reduction of immediate threats to life, property and 
    public health and safety;
        (3) temporary housing assistance provided in this Act may be 
    made available to individuals and families for a period of up to 90 
    days without regard to the requirements of subsection (4);
        (4) immediately upon the enactment of this Act, other than for 
    the purposes set forth in subsections (2) and (3) of this section, 
    any Federal entity or official who makes available funds under this 
    Act shall take reasonable steps to determine whether any individual 
    or company seeking to obtain such funds is lawfully within the 
    United States;
        (5) in no case shall such Federal entity, official or their 
    agent discriminate against any individual with respect to filing, 
    inquiry, or adjudication of an application for funding on the bases 
    of race, color, creed, handicap, religion, sex, sexual orientation, 
    national origin, citizenship status or form of lawful immigration 
    status; and
        (6) the implementation of this section shall not require the 
    publication or implementation of any intervening regulations.
    Sec. 404. (a) Study by Comptroller General.--The Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct a study regarding Federal laws, 
unfunded Federal mandates, and other Federal regulatory requirements, 
that may prevent or impair the ability of State and local authorities to 
rebuild expeditiously the areas devastated by the January 1994 
earthquake in Southern California. In conducting the study, the 
Comptroller General shall consult with State and local officials of 
California.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Congress a 
report setting forth findings and recommendations as a result of the 
study conducted under subsection (a). The report shall include--
        (1) an identification of the specific Federal laws, unfunded 
    Federal mandates, and other Federal regulatory requirements, 
    referred to in subsection (a);
        (2) an analysis of the manner in which such laws, mandates, and 
    other requirements may prevent or impair the ability of State and 
    local authorities to rebuild expeditiously the areas devastated by 
    the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California; and
        (3) recommended forms of, and appropriate time periods for, 
    relief from such laws, mandates, and other requirements.
    Sec. 405. In the case of any equipment or product that may be 
authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided using 
funds made available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the assistance, 
purchase only American-made equipment and products, and that notice of 
this provision be given to each recipient of assistance covered under 
this Act.

SEC. 406. EXTENSION OF RTC CIVIL STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.

    Section 21A(b)(14)(C) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 
1441a(b)(14)(C)) is amended by striking clause (i) and inserting in lieu 
thereof the following:
    ``(i) the period beginning on the date the claim accrues (as 
determined pursuant to section 11(d)(14)(B) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act) and ending on December 31, 1995 or ending on the date of 
the termination of the Corporation pursuant to section 21A(m)(1), 
whichever is later; or''.

SEC. 407. REPEALS.

    Except for subsection (b) of section 3508, sections 3508 and 3509 of 
the Three Affiliated Tribes and Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Equitable 
Compensation Act are repealed effective October 30, 1992: Provided, That 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers should proceed with the Secretary of 
the Interior to designate excess lands and transfer them pursuant to 
Public Law 93-599.
    Sec. 408. It is the sense of the Congress that the Department of 
Defense should proceed with construction of a new facility for the 
Walter Reed Army Institute of Research at Forest Glen, Maryland, not 
later than 45 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 409. The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
is directed to establish and operate an Auxiliary Flight Service Station 
at Marquette, Michigan, no later than September 1, 1994, using available 
funds.


                           technical correction

    Sec. 410. Subsection (b) of section 347 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 107 Stat. 
1626) is amended--
        (1) by striking out ``section 2774(a)(2)(A) of title 10,'' and 
    inserting in lieu thereof ``section 5584(a)(2)(A) of title 5,''; and
        (2) by striking out ``section 2774(a)(2) of such title'' and 
    inserting in lieu thereof ``section 5584(a)(2) of such title''.


                       landsat 7--transfer authority

    Sec. 411. The Secretary of Defense may transfer up to $90,000,000 
from Procurement, Defense-wide, 1994/1996 to the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration (NASA) to be used only for LANDSAT 7: Provided, 
That no funds may be transferred until the Administrator of NASA 
certifies a plan that fully fundsP
the LANDSAT 7 program within the NASA budget for fiscal year 1995 and 
beyond, and such plan has been submitted to the appropriate 
Congressional oversight committees.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.