[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2348 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2348
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                    TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                     Mileage and Expenses Allowances

               mileage of the vice president and senators

    For mileage of the Vice President and Senators of the United States, 
$60,000.

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $69,895,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:


                       office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,431,000.


                    office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $432,000.


               offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,076,000.


                offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $644,000.


                           conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $942,000 for each such committee; in all, $1,884,000.


   offices of the secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and the 
                       Conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $362,000.


                          office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $172,000.


                          office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $11,715,000.


               office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $32,739,000.


         offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,133,000.


                 agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $17,307,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,080,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$833,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate


                         Senate Policy Committees

    For salaries and expenses of the Majority Policy Committee and the 
Minority Policy Committee, $1,199,100 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,398,200.


                       inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $77,000,000.


    expenses of united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $336,000.


                          secretary of the Senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,366,500.


               Sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $74,894,000, of which $16,500,000 shall remain available 
until expended.


                            miscellaneous Items

    For miscellaneous items, $6,748,000.


          senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$185,768,000.

               Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Fair Employment 
Practices, $825,000.


                        stationery (revolving fund)

    For stationery for the President of the Senate, $4,500, for officers 
of the Senate and the Conference of the Majority and Conference of the 
Minority of the Senate, $8,500; in all, $13,000.


                            official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$20,000,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 1. (a) Charges for expenses of any office, the funds of which 
are disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, may be vouchered by a 
Senate support office paying such expenses or to which such charges are 
owed for goods or services provided, if--
        (1) such charges are paid on behalf of the office incurring such 
    expenses by such Senate support office; or
        (2) such charges are payable to such Senate support office for 
    goods or services provided by such office to the office incurring 
    such expenses.
    (b) Payments under this section shall be charged to the official 
funds of the office on whose behalf the expenses were paid, or which 
received the goods or services for which payment is required.
    (c) Any voucher submitted by a Senate support office pursuant to 
this section shall be accompanied by a certification from such office of 
the amount and that such purchases were of the nature that they could be 
charged to the official funds of the office on whose behalf charges were 
paid, or to which goods or services were provided.
    (d) Vouchers under this section shall be submitted and paid subject 
to such regulations as may be promulgated by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.
    Sec. 2. Effective on and after October 1, 1993, the aggregate of 
each of the sums determined under clauses (iii) and (iv) of section 
506(b)(3)(A) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 
58(b)(3)(A) (iii) and (iv)), shall be deemed decreased by 2.5 percent.
    Sec. 3. Section 12 under the subheading ``administrative 
provisions'' under the heading ``SENATE'' in the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 58c-1), is amended in the first 
sentence by striking ``the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
and''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                   Salaries and Expenses (Prior Year)


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated in the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1991, for the House of Representatives under the heading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', there is rescinded a total $730,037.41, in the amounts 
specified for the following headings and accounts:
        (1) ``House leadership offices'', $24,988.44, as follows: (A) 
    ``Office of the Speaker'', $5,245.00; (B) ``Office of the Majority 
    Leader'', $4,743.44; (C) ``Office of the Minority Leader'', 
    $5,000.00; (D) ``Office of the Majority Whip'', $5,000.00; and (E) 
    ``Office of the Minority Whip'', $5,000.00.
        (2) ``Members' clerk hire'', $686.50.
        (3) ``Committee employees'', $44.59.
        (4) ``Standing committees, special and select'', $138,448.87.
        (5) ``Allowances and expenses'', $500,691.91 as follows: (A) 
    ``furniture and furnishings'', $624.54; (B) ``reemployed annuitants 
    reimbursements'', $67.37; and (C) unspecified, $500,000.00.
        (6) ``Committee on appropriations (studies and 
    investigations)'', $2,682.97.
        (7) ``Salaries, officers and employees'', $62,494.13, as 
    follows: (A) ``Office of the Clerk'', $2,053.34; (B) ``Office of the 
    Sergeant at Arms'', $352.20; (C) ``Office of the Doorkeeper'', 
    $99.08; (D) ``Office of the Chaplain'', $255.50; (E) ``the House 
    Democratic Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic 
    Caucus'', $9,355.14; (F) ``the House Republican Conference'', 
    $1,824.87; and (G) ``six minority employees'', $48,554.00.
    Of the funds appropriated in the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1992, for the House of Representatives under the heading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', there is rescinded a total of $891,717.36, in the 
amounts specified for the following headings and accounts:
        (1) ``House leadership offices'', $533,169.67, as follows: (A) 
    ``Office of the Speaker'', $308,604.60; (B) ``Office of the Majority 
    Leader'', $46,970.75; (C) ``Office of the Minority Leader'', 
    $154,142.11; (D) ``Office of the Majority Whip'', $18,819.23; and 
    (E) ``Office of the Minority Whip'', $4,632.98.
        (2) ``Members' clerk hire'', $7,272.63.
        (3) ``Allowances and expenses'', $12,226.40 as follows: (A) 
    ``furniture and furnishings'', $4,379.86; and (B) ``reemployed 
    annuitants reimbursements'', $7,846.54.
        (4) ``Salaries, officers and employees'', $339,048.66, as 
    follows: (A) ``Office of the Sergeant at Arms'', $500.00; (B) 
    ``Office of the Chaplain'', $1,886.97; (C) ``Office of the 
    Parliamentarian'', $35,969.46; (D) ``Office of the Historian'', 
    $62,999.89; (E) ``the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee 
    and the Democratic Caucus'', $115,226.11; and (F) ``six minority 
    employees'', $122,466.23.
    Of the funds appropriated in the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1993, for the House of Representatives under the heading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', there is rescinded a total of $1,500,000 in the amounts 
specified for the following heading: ``standing committees, special and 
select''.

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$686,318,000, as follows:


                         house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $5,871,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,395,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,003,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,383,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, $1,235,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
Majority Whip and not to exceed $539,600, for the Chief Deputy Majority 
Whips; and Office of the Minority Whip, $855,000, including $5,000 for 
official expenses of the Minority Whip and not to exceed $97,980, for 
the Chief Deputy Minority Whip.


                            members' clerk hire

    For staff employed by each Member in the discharge of official and 
representative duties, $225,004,000.


                            committee employees

    For professional and clerical employees of standing committees, 
including the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on the 
Budget, $70,445,000.


                     committee on the budget (studies)

    For salaries, expenses, and studies by the Committee on the Budget, 
and temporary personal services for such committee to be expended in 
accordance with sections 101(c), 606, 703, and 901(e) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, and to be available for reimbursement 
to agencies for services performed, $389,000.


                  standing committees, special and select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by the House, $52,662,000.


                     committee on house administration

                         house information systems

    For salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of House 
Information Systems, under the direction of the Committee on House 
Administration, $22,885,000, of which $14,557,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That House Information Systems is authorized to receive 
reimbursement for services provided from Members of the House of 
Representatives and other Governmental entities and such reimbursement 
shall be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account: Provided 
further, That amounts so credited for fiscal year 1993 and not obligated 
shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 1994.


                          allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $220,812,000, including: Official Expenses of Members, $76,545,000; 
supplies, materials, administrative costs and Federal tort claims, 
$11,328,000; net expenses of purchase, lease and maintenance of office 
equipment, $7,196,000; net expenses for telecommunications, $5,960,000; 
furniture and furnishings, $1,720,000; stenographic reporting of 
committee hearings, $1,055,000; reemployed annuitants reimbursements, 
$933,000; Government contributions to employees' life insurance fund, 
retirement funds, Social Security fund, Medicare fund, health benefits 
fund, and worker's and unemployment compensation, $115,314,000; and 
miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair 
and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, 
and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, $761,000.


                             child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.


         committee on appropriations (studies and investigations)

    For salaries and expenses, studies and examinations of executive 
agencies, by the Committee on Appropriations, and temporary personal 
services for such committee, to be expended in accordance with section 
202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, and to be 
available for reimbursement to agencies for services performed, 
$6,431,000.


                            official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the House of 
Representatives, as authorized by law, $40,000,000.


                     salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $50,147,000, including: Office of the Clerk, 
including not to exceed $1,000 for official representation and reception 
expenses, $11,947,000; Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including not to 
exceed $500 for official representation and reception expenses, 
$1,384,000; Office of the Doorkeeper, including overtime, as authorized 
by law, $10,101,000; Office of Director of Non-legislative and Financial 
Services, $14,402,000; for the salaries and expenses of the Office of 
General Counsel, $674,000; Office of the Chaplain, $123,000; Office of 
the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for 
preparing the Digest of Rules, $898,000; for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Historian, $310,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $1,453,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the 
House, $4,071,000; six minority employees, $738,000; the House 
Democratic Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus, 
$1,474,000; the House Republican Conference, $1,474,000; and other 
authorized employees, $1,098,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Upon the transfer of any function to the Director of 
Non-legislative and Financial Services by the authority of the Committee 
on House Administration pursuant to rule X of the House of 
Representatives and upon the commencement of operation of the Office of 
Inspector General, the applicable amounts appropriated by the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992, or by this Act, for the 
purposes specified in subsection (b) shall be available to the Director 
and the Office of Inspector General for the carrying out of such 
function or operation, upon the approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives. In no case shall the 
transfer of any function referred to in the preceding sentence include 
the transfer of any function of the Capitol Guide Service.
    (b) The purposes referred to in subsection (a) are salaries and 
expenses of the House of Representatives under the headings ``allowances 
and expenses'' and ``salaries, officers and employees''.
    Sec. 101A. (a) House Resolution 1238, Ninety-first Congress, agreed 
to December 22, 1970 (as enacted into permanent law by chapter VIII of 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1971, and supplemented by the Act 
entitled ``An Act relating to former Speakers of the House of 
Representatives'' (88 Stat. 1723)) (2 U.S.C. 31b-1 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``Sec. 8. The entitlements of a former Speaker of the House of 
Representatives under this resolution shall be available--
        ``(1) in the case of an individual who is a former Speaker on 
    the effective date of this section, for 5 years, commencing on such 
    effective date; and
        ``(2) in the case of an individual who becomes a former Speaker 
    after such effective date, for 5 years, commencing at the expiration 
    of the term of office of the individual as a Representative in 
    Congress.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on 
October 1, 1993.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For joint committees, as follows:


                         joint economic committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,980,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.


                        joint committee on printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$1,344,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.


                        joint committee on taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$5,701,000, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Attending Physician's office; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month each to two assistants and $400 per month 
each to not to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided 
for such assistance; and (4) $1,002,000 for reimbursement to the 
Department of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment 
assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be 
advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and 
shall be available for all the purposes thereof, $1,502,000, to be 
disbursed by the Clerk of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries, including overtime, and 
Government contributions to employees' benefits funds, as authorized by 
law, of officers, members, and employees of the Capitol Police, 
$62,255,000, of which $29,453,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms of 
the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House, 
and $32,802,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, 
That of the amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1994 for salaries, 
including overtime, and Government contributions to employees' benefits 
funds under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be 
transferred between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives 
and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical services, the 
employee assistance program, not more than $2,000 for the awards 
program, postage, telephone service, travel advances, relocation of 
instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and $85 per month for extra services performed for the 
Capitol Police Board by an employee of the Sergeant at Arms of the 
Senate or the House of Representatives designated by the Chairman of the 
Board, $1,977,000, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the cost of basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal 
Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 1994 shall be paid by 
the Secretary of the Treasury from funds available to the Department of 
the Treasury.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 102. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1994 for the Capitol 
Police Board under the heading ``Capitol Police'' may be transferred 
between the headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'', upon 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives.

                          Capitol Guide Service

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service, $1,628,000, 
to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be used to employ more than thirty-three individuals: 
Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is authorized, during 
emergencies, to employ not more than two additional individuals for not 
more than one hundred twenty days each, and not more than ten additional 
individuals for not more than six months each, for the Capitol Guide 
Service.

                         Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Special Services Office, $363,000, 
to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                     OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Technology Assessment Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-484), including 
official reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $5,500 
from the Trust Fund), and expenses incurred in administering an employee 
incentive awards program (not to exceed $2,500), and rental of space in 
the District of Columbia, $21,315,000: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for salaries or expenses of any employee 
of the Office of Technology Assessment in excess of 143 staff employees: 
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
for assessments or activities not initiated and approved in accordance 
with section 3(d) of Public Law 92-484: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for salaries or expenses of 
employees of the Office of Technology Assessment in connection with any 
reimbursable study for which funds are provided from sources other than 
appropriations made under this Act, or shall be available for any other 
administrative expenses incurred by the Office of Technology Assessment 
in carrying out such a study.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
to exceed $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $22,317,000: Provided, That none 
of these funds shall be available for the purchase or hire of a 
passenger motor vehicle: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for salaries or expenses of any employee of 
the Congressional Budget Office in excess of 226 staff employees: 
Provided further, That any sale or lease of property, supplies, or 
services to the Congressional Budget Office shall be deemed to be a sale 
or lease of such property, supplies, or services to the Congress subject 
to section 903 of Public Law 98-63: Provided further, That the Director 
of the Congressional Budget Office shall have the authority, within the 
limits of available appropriations, to dispose of surplus or obsolete 
personal property by inter-agency transfer, donation, or discarding.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                 Office of the Architect of the Capitol


                                 salaries

    For the Architect of the Capitol; the Assistant Architect of the 
Capitol; and other personal services; at rates of pay provided by law, 
$8,453,000.

                                 travel

    Appropriations under the control of the Architect of the Capitol 
shall be available for expenses of travel on official business not to 
exceed in the aggregate under all funds the sum of $20,000.

                           Contingent Expenses

    To enable the Architect of the Capitol to make surveys and studies, 
and to meet unforeseen expenses in connection with activities under his 
care, $100,000.

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds


                             capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol and electrical substations of the Senate and House office 
buildings, under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, 
including furnishings and office equipment; including not to exceed 
$1,000 for official reception and representation expenses, to be 
expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; purchase or 
exchange, maintenance and operation of a passenger motor vehicle; 
security installations, which are approved by the Capitol Police Board, 
authorized by House Concurrent Resolution 550, Ninety-Second Congress, 
agreed to September 19, 1972, the cost limitation of which is hereby 
further increased by $200,000; and attendance, when specifically 
authorized by the Architect of the Capitol, at meetings or conventions 
in connection with subjects related to work under the Architect of the 
Capitol, $23,978,000, of which $4,413,000 shall remain available until 
expended.


                              capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,289,000, of which $225,000 shall remain 
available until expended.


                          senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate Office Buildings; and furniture and furnishings, to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$47,339,000, of which $10,177,000 shall remain available until expended.


                          house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, including the position of Superintendent 
of Garages as authorized by law, $32,287,000, of which $2,400,000 shall 
remain available until expended.


                            capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office; and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, Union Station complex, 
Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare 
Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request 
of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received shall be 
deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this appropriation, 
$32,777,000, of which $665,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $3,200,000 of the funds credited or to be 
reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided shall be available 
for obligation during fiscal year 1994.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$56,718,000: Provided, That no part of this appropriation may be used to 
pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the compensation of the 
Director of the Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, 
shall be at an annual rate which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
pay for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of title 5, United States Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; 
and printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$88,404,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for printing and binding part 2 of the annual report of the Secretary of 
Agriculture (known as the Yearbook of Agriculture) nor for copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 44 
U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
for the payment of obligations incurred under the appropriations for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,008,000.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress, not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library Buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog cards and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $202,250,000, of which not 
more than $7,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 1994 under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150): Provided, That the total 
amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than the $7,500,000: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,127,000 is to remain available until 
expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, and newspapers, and all 
other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic services for 
the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, 
when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special and unique 
materials for additions to the collections.

                            Copyright Office


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $26,244,000, of which not more than $14,500,000 shall be 
derived from collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal 
year 1994 under 17 U.S.C. 708(c), and not more than $2,333,000 shall be 
derived from collections during fiscal year 1994 under 17 U.S.C. 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), and 1005: Provided, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $16,833,000: Provided further, That $100,000 
of the amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $2,250 may be expended on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress or his designee, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped


                           salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the provisions of the Act of 
March 3, 1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $42,713,000, 
of which $10,377,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase and repair of furniture, 
furnishings, office and library equipment, $3,939,000: Provided, That of 
those funds that remain available until expended, up to $593,000 may be 
transferred to the Architect of the Capitol appropriation ``Library 
Buildings and Grounds, Structural and Mechanical Care'' to complete 
renovation and restoration work on the Thomas Jefferson and John Adams 
Buildings.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount not to exceed $175,690, of 
which $54,800 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
        (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade 
    or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
        (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
    work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by the 
    manager or supervisor on another workday.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a) (10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead 
costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies under 
the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be used to employ 
more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
        (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or in 
    such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
        (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
            (A) to pay for such general or administrative overhead costs 
        as are attributable to the work performed for such agency; or
            (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in 
        appropriations Acts, with respect to any purpose not allowable 
        under subparagraph (A).
    Sec. 204. Not to exceed $5,000 of any funds appropriated to the 
Library of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for the Library of Congress incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed $12,000 of funds appropriated to the Library 
of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress or his designee, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. Effective for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 
1995, obligations for any reimbursable and revolving fund activities 
performed by the Library of Congress are limited to the total amounts 
provided (1) in the annual regular appropriations Act making 
appropriations for the legislative branch, or (2) in a supplemental 
appropriations Act that makes appropriations for the legislative branch.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Library Buildings and Grounds


                      structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$9,974,000, of which $1,341,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That, subject to approval by the Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, the Librarian of Congress may transfer from any 
appropriation under the heading ``Library of Congress'' amounts not to 
exceed in the aggregate $3,200,000 to the appropriation ``Architect of 
the Capitol, Library buildings and grounds, Structural and mechanical 
care, No Year'' to complete the renovation and restoration of the Thomas 
Jefferson and John Adams buildings.

                       COPYRIGHT ROYALTY TRIBUNAL


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, 
$1,028,000, of which $900,000 shall be derived by collections from the 
appropriation ``Payments to Copyright Owners'' for the reasonable costs 
incurred in proceedings involving distribution of royalty fees as 
provided by 17 U.S.C. 807.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,082,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $130,000: Provided 
further, That funds, not to exceed $2,000,000, from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional Serial Sets and other related Congressional/non-
Congressional publications for 1991 and 1992 to depository and other 
designated libraries.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs 
and purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
``Government Printing Office revolving fund'': Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer 
in connection with official representation and reception expenses: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the 
hire or purchase of passenger motor vehicles, not to exceed a fleet of 
twelve: Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel 
expenses of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for level V of the 
Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5316): Provided further, That the revolving 
fund and the funds provided under the paragraph entitled ``office of 
superintendent of documents, salaries and expenses'' together may not be 
available for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 4,850 
workyears: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for expenses not to exceed $500,000 for the development of plans and 
design of a multi-purpose facility: Provided further, That activities 
financed through the revolving fund may provide information in any 
format: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall not be used to 
administer any flexible or compressed work schedule which applies to any 
manager or supervisor in a position the grade or level of which is equal 
to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That expenses for attendance 
at meetings shall not exceed $75,000.
    Sec. 207. (a) Subsection (b) of section 309 of title 44, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking out ``shall 
    be:'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``shall be--'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon 
    at the end;
        (3) in paragraph (2), by striking out ``; and'' and inserting in 
    lieu thereof a period; and
        (4) by striking out paragraph (3).
    (b) The first undesignated paragraph of section 1708 of title 44, 
United States Code, is amended by striking out the third sentence.
    (c) The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect 
on October 1, 1993.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not to exceed $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 
5315); hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign 
countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; benefits comparable to 
those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6) and 901(8) of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6) and 4081(8)); and under 
regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
rental of living quarters in foreign countries and travel benefits 
comparable with those which are now or hereafter may be granted single 
employees of the Agency for International Development, including single 
Foreign Service personnel assigned to AID projects, by the Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development--or his designee--under the 
authority of section 636(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2396(b)); $430,815,000: Provided, That not more than $1,600,000 
of reimbursements received incident to the operation of the General 
Accounting Office Building shall be available for use in fiscal year 
1994: Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) 
shall be available to finance an appropriate share of JFMIP costs as 
determined by the JFMIP, including the salary of the Executive Director 
and secretarial support: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of Forum costs as determined by the Forum, 
including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants. 
Payments hereunder to either the Forum or the JFMIP may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed: Provided further, That to the extent that funds are 
otherwise available for obligation, agreements or contracts for the 
removal of asbestos, and renovation of the building and building systems 
(including the heating, ventilation and air conditioning system, 
electrical system and other major building systems) of the General 
Accounting Office Building may be made for periods not exceeding five 
years: Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the American Consortium on International Public Administration 
(ACIPA) shall be available to finance an appropriate share of ACIPA 
costs as determined by the ACIPA, including any expenses attributable to 
membership of ACIPA in the International Institute of Administrative 
Sciences: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $500,000 shall be available for a broadbased 
organizational performance review of the General Accounting Office, 
focused on agency structure, skills, staffing, systems, and its 
execution of its statutory and assigned responsibilities.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 303. Whenever any office or position not specifically 
established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is appropriated for 
herein or whenever the rate of compensation or designation of any 
position appropriated for herein is different from that specifically 
established for such position by such Act, the rate of compensation and 
the designation of the position, or either, appropriated for or provided 
herein, shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions herein for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 305. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to 
approval by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
amounts may be transferred from the appropriation ``Library of Congress, 
Salaries and expenses'' to the appropriation ``Architect of the Capitol, 
Library buildings and grounds, Structural and mechanical care'' for the 
purpose of purchase, rental, lease, or other agreement, of storage and 
warehouse space for use by the Library of Congress during fiscal year 
1994, and to incur incidental expenses in connection with such use.
    Sec. 306. (a) The General Accounting Office, the Government Printing 
Office, or the Library of Congress may for such employees as it deems 
appropriate authorize a payment to employees who voluntarily separate 
before January 1, 1994, whether by retirement or resignation, which 
payment shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of section 
5597(d) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) The number of employee positions authorized for the General 
Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, or the Library of 
Congress, as the case may be, shall be reduced by one position for each 
vacancy created by reason of a separation under subsection (a). No funds 
appropriated by this Act for salaries or expenses of any position that 
is eliminated under the preceding sentence may be used for any other 
purpose.
    Sec. 307. (a) The number of employee positions, on a full-time 
equivalent basis, for each covered entity shall be reduced by at least 4 
percent from the level, other than those supported by gift and trust 
funds, as of September 30, 1992, or, with the approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, as of a later date, but not later than 
September 30, 1993. At least 10 percent of the positions eliminated 
shall be positions the pay for which is equal to or greater than the 
annual rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-14 of the General 
Schedule.
    (b) The reduction required by subsection (a) shall be completed not 
later than September 30, 1995, with at least 62.5 percent of the 
reduction for each covered entity to be achieved by September 30, 1994.
    (c) The Comptroller General shall carry out compliance reporting 
under this section.
    (d) As used in this section--
        (1) the term ``covered entity'' means an entity of the 
    legislative branch with more than 100 employee positions, on a full-
    time equivalent basis, as of September 30, 1992; and
        (2) the term ``entity of the legislative branch'' means the 
    House of Representatives, the Senate, the Office of the Architect of 
    the Capitol (including the Botanic Garden), the Capitol Police, the 
    Congressional Budget Office, the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, the 
    General Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, the 
    Library of Congress, and the Office of Technology Assessment.
    Sec. 308. (a) For fiscal years 1995, 1996, and 1997, the submissions 
in support of the amounts included in the Budget for each entity of the 
legislative branch shall set forth a separate category for 
administrative expenses. For fiscal years 1993 and 1994, the 
administrative expenses for each entity of the legislative branch shall 
be calculated and submitted in a separate category in the same format as 
if submitted in support of amounts included in the Budget.
    (b) For fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997, the submissions 
under subsection (a) in the separate category for administrative 
expenses for each entity of the legislative branch shall include 
reductions from the amount calculated for administrative expenses for 
fiscal year 1993, adjusted for inflation, as follows:
        (1) Fiscal year 1994, reduction of not less than 3 percent.
        (2) Fiscal year 1995, reduction of not less than 6 percent.
        (3) Fiscal year 1996, reduction of not less than 9 percent.
        (4) Fiscal year 1997, reduction of not less than 14 percent.
    (c) The Comptroller General shall carry out compliance reporting 
under this section.
    (d) As used in this section--
        (1) the term ``administrative expenses'' means expenses of 
    contractual services and supplies, other than rental payments, 
    programmatic mission-essential expenses, reimbursable expenses, and 
    expenses required by law;
        (2) the term ``Budget'' means the Budget of the United States 
    Government, submitted under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
    Code; and
        (3) the term ``entity of the legislative branch'' means the 
    House of Representatives, the Senate, the Office of the Architect of 
    the Capitol (including the Botanic Garden), the Capitol Police, the 
    Congressional Budget Office, the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, the 
    General Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, the 
    Library of Congress, and the Office of Technology Assessment.


  retirement credit for certain prior service with the house child care 
                                 center

    Sec. 309. (a) Definitions.--For the purpose of this section--
        (1) the term ``House Child Care Center'' means the House of 
    Representatives Child Care Center; and
        (2) the term ``Congressional employee'' has the meaning given 
    such term--
            (A) in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United 
        States Code, to the extent that this section relates to the 
        Civil Service Retirement System; or
            (B) in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to the 
        extent that this section relates to the Federal Employees' 
        Retirement System.
    (b) CSRS.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), any individual who is an 
employee of the House Child Care Center on the date of enactment of this 
Act shall be allowed credit under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 
5, United States Code, as a Congressional employee, for any service if--
        (A) such service was performed before October 1, 1991, as an 
    employee of the House Child Care Center (as constituted before that 
    date); and
        (B) the employee is subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of 
    such title as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (2) Credit for service described in paragraph (1)(A) shall not be 
allowed under this section unless there is paid into the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, by or on behalf of the employee 
involved, an amount equal to the deductions from pay which would have 
been applicable under section 8334(c) of title 5, United States Code, 
for the period of service involved, if such employee were then a 
Congressional employee, including interest. Retirement credit may not be 
allowed under this section for any such service unless the full amount 
of the deposit required under the preceding sentence has been paid.
    (c) FERS.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), any individual who is an 
employee of the House Child Care Center on the date of enactment of this 
Act shall be allowed credit under chapter 84 of title 5, United States 
Code, as a Congressional employee, for any service if--
        (A) such service was performed before October 1, 1991, as an 
    employee of the House Child Care Center (as constituted before that 
    date); and
        (B) the employee is subject to chapter 84 of such title as of 
    the date of enactment of this Act.
    (2) Credit for service described in paragraph (1)(A) shall not be 
allowed under this section unless there is paid into the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, by or on behalf of the employee 
involved, an amount equal to the deductions from pay which would have 
been payable under applicable provisions of law, for the period of 
service involved, if such employee were then a Congressional employee, 
including interest (computed in the same way as interest under 
subsection (b)(2)). Retirement credit may not be allowed under this 
section for any such service unless the full amount of the deposit 
required under the preceding sentence has been paid.
    (d) Clarification.--Nothing in this section shall be considered to 
relate to the Thrift Savings Plan.
    (e) OPM Functions.--The Office of Personnel Management shall--
        (1) prescribe any regulations which may be necessary to carry 
    out this section; and
        (2) with respect to any service for which credit is sought under 
    this section, accept the certification of the Clerk of the House of 
    Representatives concerning the period of such service and the amount 
    of pay which was paid for such service.
    Sec. 310. (a) Section 17 of the Act entitled ``An Act making 
appropriations for sundry Civil Expenses of the Government for the year 
ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, and for other 
purposes'', approved July 28, 1866 (2 U.S.C. 43), is amended by 
inserting after ``mileage'' the first place it appears the following: 
``for each Senator''.
    (b) The first section of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1936 (2 U.S.C. 43a), under the heading ``SENATE'', and subheading 
``Salaries and Mileage of Senators'', is amended by striking ``Senators, 
Members of the House of Representatives, and Delegates in Congress'' and 
inserting ``Senators''.
    (c) The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect 
on October 1, 1993.
    Sec. 311. The Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives is authorized and directed to take such action, whether 
by regulation or otherwise, to transfer to the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives responsibility for all financial activities of 
legislative service organizations, including the establishment and 
maintenance of revolving accounts to receive their dues and assessments 
and to make disbursements of their ordinary and necessary business 
expenses in support of Members' official and representational duties. 
The transfer referred to in the preceding sentence shall take effect not 
later than January 1, 1994.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the relocation of the office of any Member of the House of 
Representatives within the House office buildings.
    Sec. 313. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such sums as 
may be necessary for the replacement of the Thomas Jefferson Library of 
Congress Building roof shall be transferred from the funds appropriated 
to the Clerk of the House in the Fiscal Year 1986 Urgent Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, Public Law 99-349, and subsequently transferred to 
the Architect of the Capitol pursuant to the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1989, Public Law 100-458 for Capitol Complex 
Security Enhancements, to ``Architect of the Capitol, Library Buildings 
and Grounds, Structural and Mechanical Care'': Provided, That not to 
exceed $7,000,000 may be transferred pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 314. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 is amended in the first 
sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``1993'' and inserting ``1994''.
    Sec. 315. Section 2(a) of the Act of July 25, 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
130c(a)) is amended by deleting ``$500'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``$1,500''.
    Sec. 316. The Librarian of Congress shall enter into an agreement 
with the President of the University of Nevada, Reno for the purpose of 
assisting in the establishment of the Great Basin Intergovernmental 
Center. The Great Basin Intergovernmental Center is authorized to accept 
contributions from Federal sources. The Center may also receive 
contributions both in-kind and cash from private and other non-Federal 
sources.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.