[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2519 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2519
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for 
other purposes, namely:

           TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs


                            justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, the Missing Children's Assistance Act, as amended, 
and the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, including salaries and 
expenses in connection therewith, $90,105,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 1001(a) of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, as amended by Public Law 102-534 
(106 Stat. 3524), of which $650,000 of the funds provided under the 
Missing Children's Program shall be made available as a grant to a 
national voluntary organization representing Alzheimer patients and 
families to plan, design, and operate the ``Safe Return'' Program.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, for State and Local 
Narcotics Control and Justice Assistance Improvements, notwithstanding 
the provisions of section 511 of said Act, $474,500,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by section 1001(a) of title I of 
said Act, as amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which: 
(a) $358,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of 
subpart 1 of part E of title I of said Act and $50,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter A of subpart 2 of part 
E of title I of said Act, for the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local 
Law Enforcement Assistance Programs; (b) $12,000,000 shall be available 
to carry out the provisions of chapter B of subpart 2 of part E of title 
I of said Act, for Correctional Options Grants; (c) an additional 
$25,000,000 shall be available pursuant to the provisions of chapter A 
of subpart 2 of part E of title I of said Act, for community policing; 
(d) $13,000,000 shall be available to the Director of the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation for the National Crime Information Center 2000 project, 
as authorized by section 613 of Public Law 101-647 (104 Stat. 4824); (e) 
$16,000,000 shall be available to reimburse any appropriation account, 
as designated by the Attorney General, for selected costs incurred by 
State and local law enforcement agencies which enter into cooperative 
agreements to conduct joint law enforcement operations with Federal 
agencies; (f) $500,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of 
subtitle B of title I of the Anti Car Theft Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-
519), notwithstanding the provisions of section 131(b)(2) of said Act, 
for grants to be used in combating motor vehicle theft: Provided, That 
not to exceed $12,500,000 of the funds made available in fiscal year 
1994 under chapter A of subpart 2 of part E of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, shall be 
available as follows: (a) $2,000,000 shall be available for the 
activities of the District of Columbia Metropolitan Area Drug 
Enforcement Task Force; (b) not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available 
to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for start-up 
costs associated with coordinating the national background check system; 
and (c) $500,000 shall be transferred to the National Commission to 
Support Law Enforcement for the necessary expenses of the Commission as 
authorized by section 211(B) of Public Law 101-515: Provided, That funds 
made available in fiscal year 1994 under subpart 1 of part E of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, 
may be obligated for programs to assist States in the litigation 
processing of death penalty Federal habeas corpus petitions: Provided 
further, That funds made available in fiscal year 1994 under subpart 1 
of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, may be obligated for programs for the prosecution 
of driving while intoxicated charges and the enforcement of other laws 
relating to alcohol use and the operation of motor vehicles.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith, $107,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
as authorized by section 299 of part I of title II and section 506 of 
title V of said Act, as amended by Public Law 102-586, of which: (a) 
$85,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by parts A, B, 
and C of title II of said Act; (b) $5,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by sections 281 and 282 of part D of title II of 
said Act for prevention and treatment programs relating to juvenile 
gangs; (c) $4,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part 
G of title II of said Act for juvenile mentoring programs; and (d) 
$13,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by title V of 
said Act for incentive grants for local delinquency prevention programs.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, 
as amended, $8,000,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by sections 214B, 218, and 224 of said Act, of which: (a) 
$500,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by section 213 of 
said Act for regional children's advocacy centers; (b) $1,000,000 shall 
be available for expenses authorized by section 214 of said Act for 
local children's advocacy centers; (c) $1,500,000 shall be available for 
technical assistance and training, as authorized by section 214A of said 
Act, for a grant to the American Prosecutor Research Institute's 
National Center for Prosecution of Child Abuse; (d) $1,000,000 shall be 
available for training and technical assistance, as authorized by 
section 217(b)(1) of said Act for a grant to the National Court 
Appointed Special Advocates program; (e) $3,500,000 shall be available 
for expenses authorized by section 217(b)(2) of said Act to initiate and 
expand local court appointed special advocate programs; and (f) 
$500,000, notwithstanding section 224(b) of said Act, shall be available 
to develop model technical assistance and training programs to improve 
the handling of child abuse and neglect cases, as authorized by section 
223(a) of said Act, for a grant to the National Council of Juvenile and 
Family Court Judges.


                      public safety officers benefits

    For payments authorized by part L of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such 
sums as are necessary, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340).

                         General Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $119,000,000; of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $30,000,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended under the 
direction, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and for the acquisition, lease, maintenance and 
operation of motor vehicles without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation.

                       Weed and Seed Program Fund

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $13,150,000, to remain available until expended for 
intergovernmental agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, 
and contracts, with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in 
the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes and drug offenses in 
``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for either reimbursements 
or transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department of Justice and 
other Federal agencies which shall be specified by the Attorney General 
to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program strategy: Provided, That funds 
designated by Congress through language or through policy guidance in 
reports for other Department of Justice appropriation accounts for 
``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be managed and executed by 
the Attorney General through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed: 
Provided further, That the Attorney General may direct the use of other 
Department of Justice funds and personnel in support of ``Weed and 
Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney General notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.

                     United States Parole Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $9,123,000.

                            Legal Activities


              salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the District 
of Columbia; $403,968,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the funds available in this appropriation, not to 
exceed $50,099,000 shall remain available until expended for office 
automation systems for the legal divisions covered by this 
appropriation, and for the United States Attorneys, the Antitrust 
Division, and offices funded through ``Salaries and Expenses'', General 
Administration: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available to the United States National 
Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and representation 
expenses.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,000,000 to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, as authorized by 
section 6601 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, 1989, as amended 
by Public Law 101-509 (104 Stat. 1289).


                 salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $66,817,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, not to exceed $20,820,000 of offsetting collections derived from 
fees collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be 
retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 1994, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
1994 appropriation estimated at not more than $45,997,000: Provided 
further, That any fees received in excess of $20,820,000 in fiscal year 
1994 shall remain available until expended, but shall not be available 
for obligation until October 1, 1994.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Attorneys, 
including intergovernmental agreements, $813,797,000, of which not to 
exceed $2,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 1995 for the 
purposes of (1) providing training of personnel of the Department of 
Justice in debt collection, (2) providing services to the Department of 
Justice related to locating debtors and their property, such as title 
searches, debtor skiptracing, asset searches, credit reports and other 
investigations, (3) paying the costs of the Department of Justice for 
the sale of property not covered by the sale proceeds, such as 
auctioneers' fees and expenses, maintenance and protection of property 
and businesses, advertising and title search and surveying costs, and 
(4) paying the costs of processing and tracking debts owed to the United 
States Government: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of those funds available for automated litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended.


                       united states trustee system

    For the necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, 
$99,000,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), to remain available 
until expended, for activities authorized by section 115 of the 
Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy 
Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), of which $61,513,000 shall be derived 
from the United States Trustee System Fund: Provided, That deposits to 
the Fund are available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $37,487,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected pursuant to section 589a(f) of 
title 28, United States Code, as amended by section 111 of Public Law 
102-140 (105 Stat. 795), shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation: Provided further, That the $99,000,000 
herein appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 1994, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
1994 appropriation estimated at not more than $61,513,000: Provided 
further, That any of the aforementioned fees collected in excess of 
$37,487,000 in fiscal year 1994 shall remain available until expended, 
but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 1994.


        salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $940,000.


           salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service; 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of vehicles 
and aircraft, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for police-
type use without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year; $339,808,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 561(i), of 
which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.


                    support of united states prisoners

    For support of United States prisoners in the custody of the United 
States Marshals Service as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, but not 
including expenses otherwise provided for in appropriations available to 
the Attorney General; $312,884,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 561(i), 
to remain available until expended.


                      fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, for 
expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $103,022,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $4,750,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovation, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto for protected witness safesites; of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and maintenance of 
armored vehicles for transportation of protected witnesses; and of which 
not to exceed $4,000,000 may be made available for the purchase, 
installation and maintenance of a secure automated information network 
to store and retrieve the identities and locations of protected 
witnesses.


            salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
established by title X of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $26,106,000, of 
which not to exceed $16,278,000 shall remain available until expended to 
make payments in advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable 
agreements and other expenses necessary under section 501(c) of the 
Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-422; 94 Stat. 
1809) for the processing, care, maintenance, security, transportation 
and reception and placement in the United States of Cuban and Haitian 
entrants: Provided, That notwithstanding section 501(e)(2)(B) of the 
Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-422; 94 Stat. 
1810), funds may be expended for assistance with respect to Cuban and 
Haitian entrants as authorized under section 501(c) of such Act: 
Provided further, That to expedite the outplacement of eligible Mariel 
Cubans or other aliens from Bureau of Prisons or Immigration and 
Naturalization Service operated or contracted facilities into Community 
Relations Service contracted hospital and halfway house facilities, the 
Attorney General may direct reimbursements to the Cuban Haitian Entrant 
Program from ``Federal Prison System, Salaries and Expenses'' or 
``Immigration and Naturalization Service, Salaries and Expenses'': 
Provided further, That if such reimbursements described above exceed 
$500,000, they shall only be made after notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
accordance with section 605 of this Act.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1) (A)(ii), (B), (C), 
(F), and (G), as amended, $55,000,000 to be derived from the Department 
of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     Radiation Exposure Compensation


                          administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $2,668,000.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement


                     organized crime drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include intergovernmental agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation 
and prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $382,381,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from appropriations 
under this heading may be used under authorities available to the 
organizations reimbursed from this appropriation: Provided further, That 
any unobligated balances remaining available at the end of the fiscal 
year shall revert to the Attorney General for reallocation among 
participating organizations in succeeding fiscal years, subject to the 
reprogramming procedures described in section 605 of this Act.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for detection, investigation, and prosecution 
of crimes against the United States; including purchase for police-type 
use of not to exceed 1,665 passenger motor vehicles of which 1,300 will 
be for replacement only, without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance and operation of aircraft; and 
not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential 
character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted 
for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
$2,038,705,000, of which not to exceed $25,000,000 for automated data 
processing and telecommunications and $1,000,000 for undercover 
operations shall remain available until September 30, 1995; of which not 
to exceed $8,000,000 for research and development related to 
investigative activities shall remain available until expended; of which 
not to exceed $10,000,000 is authorized to be made available for making 
payments or advances for expenses arising out of contractual or 
reimbursable agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
while engaged in cooperative activities related to violent crime, 
terrorism, organized crime, and drug investigations; of which 
$84,400,000, to remain available until expended, shall only be available 
to defray expenses for the automation of fingerprint identification 
services and related costs; and of which $1,500,000 shall be available 
to maintain an independent program office dedicated solely to the 
relocation of the Identification Division and the automation of 
fingerprint identification services: Provided, That not to exceed 
$45,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be 
accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; purchase of not to exceed 1,117 passenger motor vehicles of 
which 1,117 are for replacement only for police-type use without regard 
to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year; 
and acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
$722,000,000, of which not to exceed $1,800,000 for research shall 
remain available until expended, and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 
for purchase of evidence and payments for information, not to exceed 
$4,000,000 for contracting for ADP and telecommunications equipment, and 
not to exceed $2,000,000 for technical and laboratory equipment shall 
remain available until September 30, 1995, and of which not to exceed 
$45,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
administration and enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, 
naturalization, and alien registration, including not to exceed $50,000 
to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be 
expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under 
the certificate of, the Attorney General; purchase for police-type use 
(not to exceed 597 of which 302 are for replacement only) without regard 
to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; and research related to immigration 
enforcement; $1,048,538,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 for 
research shall remain available until expended, and of which not to 
exceed $10,000,000 shall be available for costs associated with the 
Training program for basic officer training: Provided, That none of the 
funds available to the Immigration and Naturalization Service shall be 
available for administrative expenses to pay any employee overtime pay 
in an amount in excess of $25,000: Provided further, That uniforms may 
be purchased without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That the Land Border Fee Pilot Project scheduled to 
end September 30, 1993, is extended to September 30, 1996 for projects 
on the northern border of the United States only.
    In addition, section 286 of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 
1952 (8 U.S.C. 1356), as amended, is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``$5'', and inserting ``$6''; 
    and
        (2) in subsection (h)(2)(A), by deleting subsection (v), and 
    inserting the following:
            ``(v) providing detention and deportation services for: 
        excludable aliens arriving on commercial aircraft and vessels; 
        and any alien who is excludable under section 212(a) who has 
        attempted illegal entry into the United States through avoidance 
        of immigration inspection at air or sea ports-of-entry.
            ``(vi) providing exclusion and asylum proceedings at air or 
        sea ports-of-entry for: excludable aliens arriving on commercial 
        aircraft and vessels including immigration exclusion proceedings 
        resulting from presentation of fraudulent documents and failure 
        to present documentation; and any alien who is excludable under 
        section 212(a) who has attempted illegal entry into the United 
        States through avoidance of immigration inspection at air or sea 
        ports-of-entry.''.

                       Immigration Emergency Fund

    For the Immigration Emergency Fund, as authorized by section 
404(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 
1101), $6,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Federal Prison System


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions, including 
purchase (not to exceed 770 of which 405 are for replacement only) and 
hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles; and for the 
provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments; $1,950,000,000: Provided, That there may 
be transferred to the Health Resources and Services Administration such 
amounts as may be necessary, in the discretion of the Attorney General, 
for direct expenditures by that Administration for medical relief for 
inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions: Provided 
further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System (FPS), where 
necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal 
intermediary claims processor to determine the amounts payable to 
persons who, on behalf of the FPS, furnish health services to 
individuals committed to the custody of the FPS: Provided further, That 
uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$50,000,000 for the activation of new facilities shall remain available 
until September 30, 1995.

                    national institute of corrections

    For carrying out the provisions of sections 4351-4353 of title 18, 
United States Code, which established a National Institute of 
Corrections, and for the provision of technical assistance and advice on 
corrections related issues to foreign governments, $10,211,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                         buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; leasing the Oklahoma City Airport Trust Facility; purchase 
and acquisition of facilities and remodeling and equipping of such 
facilities for penal and correctional use, including all necessary 
expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; and 
constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
$269,543,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$14,074,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate work 
programs: Provided, That not to exceed $16,000,000 from unobligated 
balances shall be available for the Cooperative Agreement Program (CAP): 
Provided further, That labor of United States prisoners may be used for 
work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, That not to 
exceed 10 per centum of the funds appropriated to ``Buildings and 
Facilities'' in this Act or any other Act may be transferred to 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Federal Prison System upon notification by 
the Attorney General to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in compliance with provisions set forth 
in section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That unless a notification 
as required under section 605 of this Act is submitted to the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House and Senate, none of the funds in this Act 
for the CAP shall be available for a cooperative agreement with a State 
or local government for the housing of Federal prisoners and detainees 
when the cost per bed space for such cooperative agreement exceeds 
$50,000, and in addition, any cooperative agreement with a cost per bed 
space that exceeds $25,000 must remain in effect for no less than 15 
years.


                  federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in 
the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation, including 
purchase of (not to exceed five for replacement only) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles.


    limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $3,395,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's prescribed accounting 
system in effect on July 1, 1946, and such amounts shall be exclusive of 
depreciation, payment of claims, and expenditures which the said 
accounting system requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of 
commodities acquired or produced, including selling and shipping 
expenses, and expenses in connection with acquisition, construction, 
operation, maintenance, improvement, protection, or disposition of 
facilities and other property belonging to the corporation or in which 
it has an interest.

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses in accordance with distributions, 
procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney General.
    Sec. 102. Subject to subsection (b) of section 102 of the Department 
of Justice and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, authorities 
contained in Public Law 96-132, ``The Department of Justice 
Appropriation Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1980'', shall remain in 
effect until the termination date of this Act or until the effective 
date of a Department of Justice Appropriation Authorization Act, 
whichever is earlier.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 104. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 103 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 105. Pursuant to the provisions of law set forth in 18 U.S.C. 
3071-3077, not to exceed $2,000,000 of the funds appropriated to the 
Department of Justice in this title shall be available for rewards to 
individuals who furnish information regarding acts of terrorism against 
a United States person or property.
    Sec. 106. For fiscal year 1994 and thereafter, deposits transferred 
from the Assets Forfeiture Fund to the Buildings and Facilities account 
of the Federal Prison System may be used for the construction of 
correctional institutions, and the construction and renovation of 
Immigration and Naturalization Service and United States Marshals 
Service detention facilities, and for the authorized purposes of the 
Cooperative Agreement Program.
    Sec. 107. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
this section shall not apply to any appropriation made available in 
title I of this Act under the heading, ``Office of Justice Programs, 
Justice Assistance'': Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 or any other statute 
affecting the crediting of collections, the Attorney General may credit, 
as an offsetting collection, to the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund, for fiscal year 1994 and thereafter, up to three percent 
of all amounts collected pursuant to civil debt collection litigation 
activities of the Department of Justice. Such amounts in the Working 
Capital Fund shall remain available until expended and shall be subject 
to the terms and conditions of that fund, and shall be used only for 
paying the costs of processing and tracking such litigation.
    Sec. 109. Section 524(c)(9) of title 28, United States Code, as 
amended, is further amended by deleting subsection (E).
    Sec. 110. Technical Amendments to the Victims of Crime Act.--(a) 
Section 1402 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601), is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)(2)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (A);
            (B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
                ``(C) 1 percent shall be available for grants under 
            section 1404(c); and
                ``(D) 4.5 percent shall be available for grants as 
            provided in section 1404A.'';
        (2) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``1404(a)'' and inserting 
    ``1404A''; and
        (3) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``(d)(2)(A)(iv)'' and 
    inserting ``(d)(2)(D)''.
    (b) Section 1404A of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 
10603(a)), is amended by striking ``1402(d)(2)'' and inserting 
``1402(d)(2)(D) and (d)(3).''.
    Sec. 111. Bankruptcy Fees.--(a) Chapters 7 and 13 Filing Fees.--
Effective 30 days after enactment of this Act--
        (1) section 1930(a)(1) of title 28 of the United States Code is 
    amended by striking ``$120'' and inserting ``$130'';
        (2) section 589a of title 28 of the United States Code is 
    amended in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``one-fourth'' and 
    inserting ``23.08 per centum''; and
        (3) section 406.(b) of Public Law 101-162 (103 Stat. 1016) is 
    amended by striking ``25 percent'', and inserting ``30.76 per 
    centum''.
    (b) Chapter 11 Filing Fee.--Effective 30 days after enactment of 
this Act--
        (1) section 1930(a)(3) of title 28 of the United States Code is 
    amended by striking ``$600'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``800'';
        (2) section 589a of title 28 of the United States Code is 
    amended in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``50 per centum'' and 
    inserting ``37.5 per centum'';
        (3) section 589a of title 28 of the United States Code is 
    amended in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``16.7 per centum'' and 
    inserting ``12.5 per centum''; and
        (4) section 406.(b) of Public Law 101-162 (103 Stat. 1016) is 
    amended by adding ``and 25 percent of the fees hereafter collected 
    under 28 U.S.C. section 1930(a)(3)'' immediately after ``28 U.S.C. 
    section 1930(a)(1)''.
    (c) No funds provided by this Act shall be expended to fill any 
bankruptcy judgeship unless such appointee was on a merit selection list 
or report submitted to the court of appeals by either the judicial 
council or a subcommittee of the members of the council, in accordance 
with section 120 of the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act 
of 1984 (Public Law 98-353; 98 Stat. 344), section 152 of title 28 of 
the United States Code, and the Judicial Conference of the United 
States' Procedures for the Selection and Appointment of Bankruptcy 
Judges.
    (d) Report on Bankruptcy Fees.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than March 31, 1998, the 
    Judicial Conference of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the 
    Senate, a report relating to the bankruptcy fee system and the 
    impact of such system on various participants in bankruptcy cases.
        (2) Contents of report.--Such report shall include--
            (A)(i) an estimate of the costs and benefits that would 
        result from waiving bankruptcy fees payable by debtors who are 
        individuals, and
            (ii) recommendations regarding various revenue sources to 
        offset the net cost of waiving such fees; and
            (B)(i) an evaluation of the effects that would result in 
        cases under chapters 11 and 13 of title 11, United States Code, 
        from using a graduated bankruptcy fee system based on assets, 
        liabilities, or both of the debtor, and
            (ii) recommendations regarding various methods to implement 
        such a graduated bankruptcy fee system.
        (3) Waiver of fees in selected districts.--For purposes of 
    carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2), the Judicial Conference of the 
    United States shall carry out in not more than six judicial 
    districts, throughout the 3-year period beginning on October 1, 
    1994, a program under which fees payable under section 1930 of title 
    28, United States Code, may be waived in cases under chapter 7 of 
    title 11, United States Code, for debtors who are individuals unable 
    to pay such fees in installments.
        (4) Study of graduated fee system.--For purposes of carrying out 
    paragraphs (1) and (2), the Judicial Conference of the United States 
    shall carry out, in not fewer than six judicial districts, a study 
    to estimate the results that would occur in cases under chapters 11 
    and 13 of title 11, United States Code, if filing fees payable under 
    section 1930 of title 28, United States Code, were paid on a 
    graduated scale based on assets, liabilities, or both of the debtor.
    Sec. 112. For fiscal year 1994 only, grants awarded to State and 
local governments for the purpose of participating in gang task forces 
and for programs or projects to abate drug activity in residential and 
commercial buildings through community participation, shall be exempt 
from the provisions of section 504(f) of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $7,776,000, of which $2,000,000 is for 
regional offices and $700,000 is for civil rights monitoring activities 
authorized by section 5 of Public Law 98-183: Provided, That not to 
exceed $20,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ 
in excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted 
Service exclusive of one special assistant for each Commissioner: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, 
with the exception of the Chairman who is permitted 125 billable days.

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); nonmonetary awards to 
private citizens; not to exceed $26,500,000, for payments to State and 
local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant to 
title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 and 14 
of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991; 
$230,000,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds.

                    Federal Communications Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-02; not to exceed $450,000 for land and 
structures; not to exceed $300,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed sixteen) and hire of 
motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; $160,300,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 1995, for research and policy studies: 
Provided, That $60,400,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act 
of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
1994, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $99,900,000: Provided further, That any 
offsetting collections received in excess of $60,400,000 in fiscal year 
1994 shall remain available until expended, but shall not be available 
for obligation until October 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be used to repeal, to retroactively 
apply changes in, or to continue a reexamination of, the policies of the 
Federal Communications Commission with respect to comparative licensing, 
distress sales and tax certificates granted under 26 U.S.C. 1071, to 
expand minority ownership of broadcasting licenses, including those 
established in the Statement of Policy on Minority Ownership of 
Broadcasting Facilities, 68 F.C.C. 2d 979 and 69 F.C.C. 2d 1591, as 
amended 52 R.R. 2d 1313 (1982) and Mid-Florida Television Corp., 69 
F.C.C. 2d 607 (Rev. Bd. 1978), which were effective prior to September 
12, 1986, other than to close MM Docket No. 86-484 with a reinstatement 
of prior policy and a lifting of suspension of any sales, licenses, 
applications, or proceedings, which were suspended pending the 
conclusion of the inquiry: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated to the Federal Communications Commission by this Act may be 
used to diminish the number of VHF channel assignments reserved for 
noncommercial educational television stations in the Television Table of 
Assignments (section 73.606 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations): 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to repeal, to retroactively apply changes in, or to begin or 
continue a reexamination of the rules and the policies established to 
administer such rules of the Federal Communications Commission as set 
forth at section 73.3555(d) of title 47 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, other than to amend policies with respect to waivers of the 
portion of section 73.3555(d) that concerns cross-ownership of a daily 
newspaper and an AM or FM radio broadcast station.
    In addition, section 9(a) of title I of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, is further amended as follows:
        (a) by striking ``(a) General Authority.--'' and inserting in 
    lieu thereof the following:
    ``(a) General Authority.--
        ``(1) Recovery of costs.--''; and
        (b) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Fees contingent on appropriations.--The fees described in 
    paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be collected only if, and 
    only in the total amounts, required in Appropriations Acts.''.

                       Federal Maritime Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as 
amended (46 App. U.S.C. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-02; $18,900,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $88,740,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $20,820,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected for premerger notification 
filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 1994, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $67,920,000: Provided further, That any fees received in excess of 
$20,820,000 in fiscal year 1994 shall remain available until expended, 
but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 1994: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Federal 
Trade Commission shall be available for obligation for expenses 
authorized by section 151 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2282-2285): 
Provided further, That the funds appropriated in this paragraph are 
subject to the limitations and provisions of sections 10(a) and 10(c) 
(notwithstanding section 10(e)), 11(b), 18, and 20 of the Federal Trade 
Commission Improvements Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-252; 94 Stat. 374), 
except that this proviso shall cease to be effective upon enactment of 
an Act authorizing appropriations for the Federal Trade Commission for 
fiscal year 1994.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $57,856,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 may 
be used toward funding a permanent secretariat for the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions, and of which not to exceed 
$100,000 shall be available for expenses for consultations and meetings 
hosted by the Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory 
officials, members of their delegations, appropriate representatives and 
staff to exchange views concerning developments relating to securities 
matters, development and implementation of cooperation agreements 
concerning securities matters and provision of technical assistance for 
the development of foreign securities markets, such expenses to include 
necessary logistic and administrative expenses and the expenses of 
Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance at such 
consultations and meetings including: (i) such incidental expenses as 
meals taken in the course of such attendance, (ii) any travel or 
transportation to or from such meetings, and (iii) any other related 
lodging or subsistence: Provided, That immediately upon enactment of 
this Act, the rate of fees under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)) shall increase from one-fiftieth of 1 per centum 
to one twenty-ninth of 1 per centum and such increase shall be deposited 
as an offsetting collection to this appropriation, to remain available 
until expended, to recover costs of services of the securities 
registration process: Provided further, That such fee increase shall be 
repealed upon enactment of legislation amending the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 to establish a new fee system in fiscal year 1994 for full 
cost recovery of Commission expenses.
    In addition, and subject to enactment of legislation amending the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to establish a new fee system in fiscal 
year 1994 to require the Commission to collect $171,621,000 in fees to 
be deposited to this appropriation as an offsetting collection; 
$171,621,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That subject 
to the fee provisions contained in said legislation, $171,621,000 of 
fees shall be assessed and deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
appropriation to recover the costs of services of the securities 
registration process: Provided further, That the $171,621,000 herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as the aforementioned fees are collected 
during fiscal year 1994, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1994 
appropriation estimated at not more than $0.
    In addition, upon enactment of legislation amending the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.), and subject to the 
schedule of fees contained in such legislation, the Commission may 
collect not to exceed $16,600,000 in fees, and such fees shall be 
deposited as an offsetting collection to this appropriation to recover 
the costs of registration, supervision, and regulation of investment 
advisers and their activities: Provided, That such fees shall remain 
available until expended.

                         State Justice Institute

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by The State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 
102-572 (106 Stat. 4515-4516)), $13,550,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                    TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $226,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $5,880,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund'' and $1,500,000 may be transferred to the Department of Commerce 
``Working Capital Fund''.


                      industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, 
the Advanced Technology Program and the Quality Outreach Program of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, $232,524,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,290,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund''.


                    construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, not otherwise provided for the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-
278e, $61,686,000, to remain available until expended.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                   operations, research, and facilities

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including acquisition, 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft; not to exceed 439 
commissioned officers on the active list; as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343 and 1344; construction of facilities, including initial equipment 
as authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; grants, contracts, or other payments to 
nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
pursuant to cooperative agreements; and alteration, modernization, and 
relocation of facilities as authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; 
$1,694,753,000, to remain available until expended; of which $576,000 
shall be available for operational expenses and cooperative agreements 
at the Fish Farming Experimental Laboratory at Stuttgart, Arkansas; and 
in addition, $54,800,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund 
entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining 
to American Fisheries'': Provided, That grants to States pursuant to 
section 306 and 306(a) of the Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed $2,000,000 and shall not be less than $500,000: 
Provided further, That hereafter all receipts received from the sale of 
aeronautical charts that result from an increase in the price of 
individual charts above the level in effect for such charts on September 
30, 1993, shall be deposited in this account as an offsetting collection 
and shall be available for obligation.


                       coastal zone management fund

    Of amounts collected pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1456a, not to exceed 
$7,800,000, for purposes set forth in 16 U.S.C. 1456a(b)(2).


                               construction

    For repair and modification of, and additions to, existing 
facilities and construction of new facilities, and for facility planning 
and design and land acquisition not otherwise provided for the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, $109,703,000, to remain 
available until expended; of which $2,000,000 is for the construction of 
the National Marine Fisheries Service Estuarine and Habitat Research 
Laboratory in Lafayette, Louisiana; of which $1,000,000 is for a grant 
for the purchase of equipment for the Ruth Patrick Science Education 
Center in Aiken, South Carolina; and of which the following amounts 
shall be available to carry out continuing construction activities: 
$1,000,000 for construction and related expenses for a Multi-Species 
Aquaculture Facility to be located in the State of New Jersey; 
$1,000,000 for a grant to the Mystic Seaport, Mystic, Connecticut, for a 
maritime education center; $1,395,000 for a grant to the Indiana State 
University Center for Interdisciplinary Science Research and Education; 
and $1,000,000 for a grant for the Boston Biotechnology Innovation 
Center: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
land located on Woodley Island in the City of Eureka, California, that 
is acquired by the United States of America from Humboldt Bay Harbor, 
Recreation, and Conservation District, California, for use as a weather 
forecasting office, shall be used only as a weather forecasting office 
and for related purposes: Provided further, That in the event the 
aforementioned property is no longer required for such use, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall determine that the property is no longer 
needed for such use and title to the property shall revert to Humboldt 
Bay Harbor, Recreation, and Conservation District.


             fleet modernization, shipbuilding and conversion

    For expenses necessary for the repair, construction, acquisition, 
leasing, or conversion of vessels, including related equipment to 
maintain and modernize the existing fleet and to continue planning the 
modernization of the fleet, for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, $77,064,000, to remain available until expended.

                 aircraft procurement and modernization

    For construction, procurement and modification of aircraft, 
including research equipment and spare parts, necessary to acquire the 
next generation aircraft reconnaissance system for hurricane and severe 
storm forecasting and atmospheric research, $43,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                   fishing vessel obligations guarantees

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform 
Act of 1990, of guaranteed loans authorized by the Merchant Marine Act 
of 1936, as amended, $459,000.

            fishing vessel and gear damage compensation fund

    For carrying out the provisions of section 3 of Public Law 95-376, 
not to exceed $1,273,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to 22 U.S.C. 1980 (b) and (f), to remain available until expended.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $999,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.


                       foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as amended 
(Public Law 100-627) and the American Fisheries Promotion Act (Public 
Law 96-561), there are appropriated from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to exceed 
$550,000, to remain available until expended.

                         General Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official entertainment, $33,042,000.


                        office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$16,000,000.

                          Bureau of the Census


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $128,286,000.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For expenses necessary to collect and publish statistics for 
periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $110,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$45,220,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995.

                   International Trade Administration


                       operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms in the areas of textiles, biotechnology, and manufacturing, 
to include: a grant of $9,000,000 for the National Textile Center 
University Consortium; a grant of $3,400,000 for the Tailored Clothing 
Technology Corporation; a grant of $800,000 for the Center for Global 
Competitiveness at Saint Francis College in Loretto, Pennsylvania; a 
grant of $465,000 for the Center for Manufacturing Productivity at the 
University of Massachusetts at Amherst; a grant of $1,395,000 for the 
Massachusetts Biotechnology Research Institute; and a grant of $930,000 
for the Michigan Biotechnology Institute, without regard to the 
provisions of law set forth in 44 U.S.C. 3702 and 3703; full medical 
coverage for dependent members of immediate families of employees 
stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted overseas; travel and 
transportation of employees of the United States and Foreign Commercial 
Service between two points abroad, without regard to 49 U.S.C. 1517; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services; rental of 
space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and expenses of 
alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction of 
temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; payment of 
tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 
U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$327,000 for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad not to exceed $30,000 
per vehicle; obtain insurance on official motor vehicles; and rent tie 
lines and teletype equipment; $248,590,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence of section 
105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in 
carrying out these activities without regard to 15 U.S.C. 4912; and that 
for the purpose of this Act, contributions under the provisions of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act shall include payment for 
assessments for services provided as part of these activities.

                          Export Administration


                       operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; 
rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and expenses 
of alteration, repair, or improvement; payment of tort claims, in the 
manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such 
claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $22,000 for official 
representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to informers 
under the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use and 
motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special requirement vehicles 
eligible for purchase without regard to any price limitation otherwise 
established by law; $34,747,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) 
and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in 
carrying out these activities.

                  Minority Business Development Agency


                       minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $42,100,000, of which $30,300,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $800,000 shall be available 
only for a grant to the City of Williamsport, Pennsylvania for 
revitalization and development of minority firms, and $500,000 shall be 
available only for a grant to the Catawba Indian Tribe in South Carolina 
for business planning and technical assistance.

             United States Travel and Tourism Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Travel and Tourism 
Administration including travel and tourism promotional activities 
abroad for travel to the United States and its possessions without 
regard to 44 U.S.C. 501, 3702 and 3703, including employment of American 
citizens and aliens by contract for services abroad; rental of space 
abroad for periods not exceeding five years, and expenses of alteration, 
repair, or improvement; purchase or construction of temporary 
demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; advance of funds under 
contracts abroad; payment of tort claims in the manner authorized in the 
first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672, when such claims arise in foreign 
countries; and not to exceed $15,000 for official representation 
expenses abroad; $17,120,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of section 203(a) of the 
International Travel Act of 1961, as amended: Provided further, That in 
addition to fees currently being assessed and collected, the 
Administration shall charge users of its services, products, and 
information, fees sufficient to result in an additional $3,000,000, to 
be deposited in the General Fund of the Treasury.

                       Patent and Trademark Office


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Patent and Trademark Office provided 
for by law, including defense of suits instituted against the 
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks; $88,329,000, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from deposits in the Patent and Trademark 
Office Fee Surcharge Fund as authorized by law: Provided, That the 
amounts made available under the Fund shall not exceed amounts 
deposited; and such fees as shall be collected pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 
1113 and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376 shall remain available until expended.

                        Technology Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Technology Administration, $5,700,000.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration, $19,927,000, to 
remain available until expended.

     public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $24,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,000,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of said Act, the prior 
year unobligated balances may be made available for grants for projects 
for which applications have been submitted and approved during any 
fiscal year: Provided further, That notwithstanding the provisions of 
sections 391 and 392 of the Communications Act, as amended, not to 
exceed $700,000 appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
the Pan-Pacific Educational and Cultural Experiments by Satellite 
program (PEACESAT).


                     information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $26,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,000,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 392 (a) and 392 (c) of such 
Act, these funds may be used for the planning and construction of 
telecommunications networks for the provision of educational, cultural, 
health care, public information, public safety or other social services.


              endowment for children's educational television

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the National 
Endowment for Children's Educational Television Act of 1990, title II of 
Public Law 101-437, including costs for contracts, grants and 
administrative expenses, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Economic Development Administration


                 Economic Development Assistance Programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, Public 
Law 91-304, and such laws that were in effect immediately before 
September 30, 1982, and for trade adjustment assistance, $322,642,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading may be used directly or indirectly for 
attorneys' or consultants' fees in connection with securing grants and 
contracts made by the Economic Development Administration: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Commerce may provide financial assistance for projects to be located 
on military installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment 
to grantees eligible for assistance under the Public Works and Economic 
Development Act of 1965, as amended, without it being required that the 
grantee have title or ability to obtain a lease for the property, for 
the useful life of the project, when, in the opinion of the Secretary of 
Commerce, such financial assistance is necessary for the economic 
development of the area: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Commerce may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, consult with the 
Secretary of Defense regarding the title to land on military 
installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment.


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $28,000,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title I 
of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency Drought 
Relief Act of 1977.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act shall 
be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 
(15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed by said 
Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced 
payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification of 
officials designated by the Secretary that such payments are in the 
public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that are 
under the control of the United States Air Force or the United States 
Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds provided in this or any previous Act, or 
hereinafter made available to the Department of Commerce shall be 
available to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other fund or 
account of the Treasury to pay for any expenses paid before October 1, 
1992, as authorized by section 8501 of title 5, United States Code, for 
services performed after April 20, 1990, by individuals appointed to 
temporary positions within the Bureau of the Census for purposes 
relating to the 1990 decennial census of population.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                        TITLE III--THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve; $23,000,000.


                     care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect of 
the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the Act approved 
May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $2,850,000, of which $300,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit


                           salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $12,900,000.

               United States Court of International Trade


                           salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and eight judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$11,000,000.

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services


                           salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges of 
the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the United 
States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate judges, 
and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary not 
otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $2,156,000,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects; and of 
which $500,000 is to remain available until expended for acquisition of 
books, periodicals, and newspapers, and all other legal reference 
materials, including subscriptions.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,160,000 to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                            defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations, the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended, the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act (18 U.S.C. 3006A(e)), the compensation (in 
accordance with Criminal Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel, the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians ad litem 
acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or incompetent offenders 
in connection with transfers from the United States to foreign countries 
with which the United States has a treaty for the execution of penal 
sentences, and the compensation of attorneys appointed to represent 
jurors in civil actions for the protection of their employment, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d), $280,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i): Provided, That not to 
exceed $19,800,000 shall be available for Death Penalty Resource 
Centers.


                     fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)); $77,095,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

                             court security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment and 
protective services for the United States Courts in courtrooms and 
adjacent areas, including building ingress-egress control, inspection of 
packages, directed security patrols, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access to 
Justice Act (Public Law 100-702); $86,000,000, to be expended directly 
or transferred to the United States Marshals Service which shall be 
responsible for administering elements of the Judicial Security Program 
consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the 
Administrative Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney 
General.

            Administrative Office of the United States Courts


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $44,900,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                         Federal Judicial Center


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as authorized 
by Public Law 90-219, $18,450,000; of which $1,800,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 1995, to provide education and training 
to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 is 
authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Judicial Retirement Funds

                    payment to judiciary trust funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund as authorized 
by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $20,000,000, to the Judicial Survivors' Annuities 
Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), and in addition to the Claims 
Court Judges' Retirement Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), 
$545,000.

                   United States Sentencing Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $8,468,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                    General Provisions--The Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title which 
are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of the Special Court established under the 
Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, Public Law 93-236.
    Sec. 303. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 304. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United States: 
Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $10,000 and shall 
be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts in his capacity as Secretary of the Judicial 
Conference.
    This title may be cited as ``The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
1994''.

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration


                     operating-differential subsidies

                    (liquidation of contract authority)

    For the payment of obligations incurred for operating-differential 
subsidies as authorized by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, 
$240,870,000, to remain available until expended.


                          operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $76,423,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $28,877,000 shall be available for the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy and $10,344,000 shall be available for State maritime 
academy programs: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Transportation may use proceeds derived from the 
sale or disposal of National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels that are 
currently collected and retained by the Maritime Administration, to be 
used for facility and ship maintenance, modernization and repair, 
conversion, acquisition of equipment, and fuel costs necessary to 
maintain training at the United States Merchant Marine Academy and State 
maritime academies: Provided further, That reimbursements may be made to 
this appropriation from receipts to the ``Federal Ship Financing Fund'' 
for administrative expenses in support of that program in addition to 
any amount heretofore appropriated.


                            ready reserve force

    For necessary expenses to acquire and maintain a surge shipping 
capability in the National Defense Reserve Fleet in an advanced state of 
readiness and for related programs, $298,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That reimbursement may be made to the 
Operations and Training appropriation for expenses related to this 
program.


            administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year from 
the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, or 
otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations contained in 
this Act or in any prior appropriation Act, and all receipts which 
otherwise would be deposited to the credit of said fund shall be covered 
into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

                    Commission on Immigration Reform


                           salaries and expenses

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Immigration Reform 
pursuant to section 141(f) of the Immigration Act of 1990, $1,118,000, 
of which $500,000 shall be available by transfer from unobligated 
balances remaining from the appropriation entitled ``Commission on 
Agricultural Workers, Salaries and expenses'', to remain available until 
expended.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,099,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public Law 99-7.

                     Competitiveness Policy Council


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Competitiveness Policy Council as 
authorized by section 5209 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act 
of 1988, $1,140,000, to remain available until expended.

                        Marine Mammal Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,290,000.

           Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal 
Holiday Commission, as authorized by Public Law 98-399, as amended, 
$500,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$20,600,000, of which $2,500,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                      Small Business Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 101-574, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $258,900,000. Of this total amount: $71,266,000 shall be 
available for grants for performance in fiscal year 1994 or fiscal year 
1995 for Small Business Development Centers as authorized by section 21 
of the Small Business Act, as amended; $3,500,000 shall be available for 
the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE); $18,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out section 24 of the Small Business Act, as amended; 
$3,000,000 shall be available for the Small Business Institute program 
(SBI); $9,000,000 shall be available until expended for Microloan 
technical assistance; $175,000 shall be available for a grant to the Ben 
Franklin Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to assist small 
businesses to qualify for and participate in the Small Business 
Innovation Research (SBIR) program; $750,000 shall be available for a 
grant to the North Carolina Rural Economic Development Center for the 
North Carolina Small Business Capital Access Program to provide 
financial development assistance to small businesses; $500,000 shall be 
available for a grant to the Van Emmons Population, Marketing Analysis 
Center, Towanda, Pennsylvania, for an integrated small business data 
base to assist Appalachian Region small businesses; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for a grant to the City of Prestonsburg, Kentucky, for small 
business development assistance; $680,000 shall be available for a grant 
to the State of Nebraska for a statewide small business data base to 
facilitate the development of small businesses in rural communities; 
$100,000 shall be available for a grant to the Institute for Economic 
Development, Western Kentucky University to provide small business 
consulting services for senior citizens; $5,000,000 shall be available 
for a grant to the National Center for Genome Resources in New Mexico, 
to provide consulting assistance, information and related services to 
small businesses and for related purposes; $1,000,000 shall be available 
for a grant to the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Arkansas, for 
the Genesis small business incubator facility; $300,000 shall be 
available for a grant to the Economic Development Council of Paducah, 
Kentucky, to assist in the development of a small business incubator 
facility; $1,000,000 shall be available for a grant to the WVHTC 
Foundation in West Virginia for build out, equipment, and operations 
costs for a small business incubator facility; $250,000 shall be 
available for a grant to Grant County, West Virginia, to establish a 
small business development and financial assistance fund; and in 
addition, the following continuing activities shall be funded from the 
total amount provided in this paragraph at the level designated for 
these activities under this heading in Public Law 102-395: Hazard 
Community College in Hazard, Kentucky, to assist in the development of a 
small business consulting, information and assistance facility; Seton 
Hill College in Greensburg, Pennsylvania, to provide for a small 
business consulting and assistance center for entrepreneurial 
opportunity; the University of Central Arkansas to assist the Small 
Business Institute Program of the Small Business Administration to 
establish and operate a National Data Center; and the Iowa Waste 
Reduction Center, University of Northern Iowa for a demonstration 
program to assist small businesses in complying with certain Federal 
regulatory requirements: Provided, That not more than $500,000 of the 
total amount in this paragraph shall be available to pay the expenses of 
the National Small Business Development Center Advisory Board and to 
reimburse Centers for participating in evaluations as provided in 
section 20(a) of such Act, and to maintain a clearinghouse as provided 
in section 21(g)(2) of such Act.
    None of the funds appropriated for the Small Business Administration 
under this Act may be used to impose any new or increased loan guaranty 
fee or debenture guaranty fee, or any new or increased user fee or 
management assistance fee, except as otherwise provided in this Act: 
Provided, That none of the funds provided in this or any other Act may 
be used for the cost of direct loans to any borrower under section 7(b) 
of the Small Business Act to relocate voluntarily outside the business 
area in which the disaster has occurred.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$7,962,000.


                      business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,946,000, and for the cost of 
guaranteed loans, $196,041,000, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $94,737,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program, 
$76,101,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.
    In addition, for the cost of emergency disaster loans and associated 
administrative expenses, $140,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That these funds, or any portion thereof, shall be 
available beginning in fiscal year 1994 to the extent that the President 
notifies the Congress of his designation of any or all of these amounts 
as emergency requirements under the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990: 
Provided further, That Congress hereby designates these amounts as 
emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D).


                   surety bond guarantees revolving fund

    For additional capital for the ``Surety Bond Guarantees Revolving 
Fund'', authorized by the Small Business Investment Act, as amended, 
$7,000,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note.


                         sbic bankruptcy provision

    None of the funds provided by this Act for the Small Business 
Administration may be used to guarantee any participating securities 
authorized by Public Law 102-366 until legislation has been enacted 
which directly or indirectly prohibits the filing of a petition under 
the Bankruptcy Code by a small business investment company licensed 
under subsection (c) or (d) of section 301 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 or regulations implemented to reduce risks to the 
Small Business Administration from companies licensed under section (c) 
or (d) of section 301 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.

                Thomas Jefferson Commemoration Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Thomas Jefferson Commemoration 
Commission as authorized by Public Law 102-343, $62,000: Provided, That 
any unobligated balances of amounts made available for fiscal year 1993 
shall expire on September 30, 1994.

                       Legal Services Corporation


                 payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$400,000,000; of which $341,865,000 is for basic field programs; 
$8,950,000 is for Native American programs; $12,759,000 is for migrant 
programs; $1,402,000 is for law school clinics; $1,274,000 is for 
supplemental field programs; $795,000 is for regional training centers; 
$9,611,000 is for national support; $10,564,000 is for State support; 
$1,101,000 is for the Clearinghouse; $651,000 is for computer assisted 
legal research regional centers; $10,928,000 is for Corporation 
management and administration; and $100,000 is for board initiatives.

            TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs


                     diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including expenses authorized by the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended; 
representation to certain international organizations in which the 
United States participates pursuant to treaties, ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, or specific Acts of Congress; 
acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343, 40 U.S.C. 481(c) and 22 U.S.C. 2674; 
$1,704,589,000, and in addition not to exceed $665,000 in registration 
fees collected pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, as 
amended, may be used in accordance with section 45 of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, 22 U.S.C. 2717, and in 
addition not to exceed $1,185,000 shall be derived from fees from other 
executive agencies for lease or use of facilities located at the 
International Center in accordance with section 4 of the International 
Center Act (Public Law 90-553, as amended by section 120 of Public Law 
101-246), and in addition not to exceed $15,000 shall be derived from 
reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House facilities 
in accordance with section 46 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2718(a)) and for expenses of general 
administration: Provided, That notwithstanding section 502 of this Act, 
not to exceed 20 percent of the amounts made available in this Act in 
the appropriation accounts, ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
``Salaries and Expenses'' under the heading ``Administration of Foreign 
Affairs'' may be transferred between such appropriation accounts: 
Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of State and the Foreign Service, provided for by law, 
including expenses authorized by section 9 of the Act of August 31, 
1964, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3721), and the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, as amended, $396,722,000.


                        office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$23,469,000.


                         representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized by section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4085), $4,780,000.


               protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services in accordance 
with the provisions of section 214 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4314) and 3 U.S.C. 208, $10,551,000.


              acquisition and maintenance of buildings abroad

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), and the 
Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized by title IV of 
the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 
4851), $410,000,000, of which $10,000,000 is for relocation and 
renovation costs necessary to facilitate the consolidation of overseas 
financial and administrative activities in the United States, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c): Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available 
for acquisition of furniture and furnishings and generators for other 
departments and agencies.


            emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service 
pursuant to the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3526(e), $7,805,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c): Provided, 
That not more than $1,500,000 shall be available for representation 
expenses.


                    repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $593,000, as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
2671: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
out the direct loan program, $183,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the Salaries and Expenses account under Administration of 
Foreign Affairs.


                payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, Public 
Law 96-8 (93 Stat. 14), $15,165,000.


       payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $125,084,000.

               International Organizations and Conferences


               Contributions to International Organizations

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $860,885,000: 
Provided, That any payment of arrearages made from these funds shall be 
directed toward special activities that are mutually agreed upon by the 
United States and the respective international organization: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph for the 
assessed contribution of the United States to the United Nations, ten 
percent of said assessment shall be available for obligation only upon a 
certification to the Congress by the Secretary of State that the United 
Nations has established an independent office with responsibilities and 
powers substantially similar to offices of Inspectors General authorized 
by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
a United States contribution to an international organization for the 
United States share of interest costs made known to the United States 
Government by such organization for loans incurred on or after October 
1, 1984, through external borrowings.


          contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For payments, not otherwise provided for, by the United States for 
expenses of the United Nations peacekeeping forces, as authorized by 
law, $401,607,000: Provided, That funds shall be available for 
peacekeeping expenses only upon a certification by the Secretary of 
State to the appropriate committees of the Congress that American 
manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities to provide 
equipment, services and material for United Nations peacekeeping 
activities equal to those being given to foreign manufacturers and 
suppliers.


                international conferences and contingencies

    For necessary expenses authorized by section 5 of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for these purposes, contributions for the United States share 
of general expenses of international organizations and conferences and 
representation to such organizations and conferences as provided for by 
22 U.S.C. 2656 and 2672, and personal services without regard to civil 
service and classification laws as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5102, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 2696(c), of which not to exceed $200,000 may be expended for 
representation as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 4085.

                        International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:


   international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $11,200,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $14,400,000, to remain available until expended as authorized 
by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c).


               american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including not to 
exceed $9,000 for representation expenses incurred by the International 
Joint Commission, $4,290,000; for the International Joint Commission and 
the International Boundary Commission, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain.


                    international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $16,200,000: Provided, 
That the United States share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                  Other


         united States Bilateral Science and Technology Agreements

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for Bilateral 
Science and Technology Agreements, $4,275,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c).


                      payment to the asia foundation

    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by section 501 of 
Public Law 101-246, $16,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c).

                 General Provisions--Department of State

    Sec. 501. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of 5 U.S.C.; for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and hire of passenger transportation pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b).
    Sec. 502. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the United States Information Agency in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 503. Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
Act or any other Act may be expended for compensation of the United 
States Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission, United 
States and Canada, only for actual hours worked by such Commissioner.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                   Arms Control and Disarmament Agency

                 arms control and disarmament activities

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for arms control and 
disarmament activities, including not to exceed $100,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, authorized by the Act of 
September 26, 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2551 et seq.), $53,500,000, of 
which not less than $9,500,000 is available until expended only for 
payment of United States contributions to the Preparatory Commission for 
the Organization on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

                  Board for International Broadcasting


                            grants and expenses

    For expenses of the Board for International Broadcasting, including 
grants to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Incorporated, as authorized 
by the Board for International Broadcasting Act of 1973, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2871-2883), $210,000,000, of which not to exceed $52,000 may be 
made available for official reception and representation expenses.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $200,000 as authorized by Public Law 99-83, section 
1303.

                     International Trade Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $43,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                Japan-United States Friendship Commission


                 japan-united states friendship trust fund

    For expenses of the Japan-United States Friendship Commission as 
authorized by Public Law 94-118, as amended, from the interest earned on 
the Japan-United States Friendship Trust Fund, $1,250,000; and an amount 
of Japanese currency not to exceed the equivalent of $1,420,000 based on 
exchange rates at the time of payment of such amounts as authorized by 
Public Law P94-118.

                    United States Information Agency


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
United States Information Agency, as authorized by the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2451 et seq.), the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.) and Reorganization Plan 
No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), to carry out international communication, 
educational and cultural activities; and to carry out related activities 
authorized by law, including employment, without regard to civil service 
and classification laws, of persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed 
$700,000 of this appropriation), as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1471, and 
entertainment, including official receptions, within the United States, 
not to exceed $25,000 as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1474(3); $730,000,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed $1,400,000 may be used for representation 
abroad as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1452 and 4085: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $1,200,000 of the amounts allocated by the United States 
Information Agency to carry out section 102(a)(3) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2452(a)(3)), shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $500,000 shall remain available until expended as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1477b(a), for expenses and equipment necessary 
for maintenance and operation of data processing and administrative 
services as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1535-1536: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $7,615,000 to remain available until expended, may be 
credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments received from 
or in connection with English teaching, library, motion pictures, radio, 
television, and publication programs as authorized by section 810 of the 
United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as 
amended.

                       office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), and in accordance with the provisions of 31 
U.S.C. 1105(a)(25), $4,247,000.


                educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of Fulbright, International Visitor, Humphrey 
Fellowship, Citizen Exchange, Congress-Bundestag Exchange, and other 
exchange programs, as authorized by the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.), and 
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), to include other 
educational and cultural exchange programs, $242,000,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2455.


             Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated to be derived from interest and earnings from the 
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund as authorized by 
sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 
U.S.C. 5204-05), $300,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary or other compensation, or to enter into any contract providing 
for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5376; or for purposes which are not in accordance with OMB Circulars A-
110 (Uniform Administrative Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles for 
Non-profit Organizations), including the restrictions on compensation 
for personal services.


                     Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
1994, to remain available until expended.


                            radio construction

    For an additional amount for the purchase, rent, construction, and 
improvement of facilities for radio transmission and reception and 
purchase and installation of necessary equipment for radio transmission 
and reception as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1471, $75,164,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1477b(a).

                            east-west center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960 (22 U.S.C. 2054-
2057), by grant to the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange 
Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, $26,000,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary, or to enter into any contract providing for the payment thereof, 
in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                          broadcasting to cuba


                        radio broadcasting to cuba

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to carry out the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 1465 et seq.) (providing for the Radio Marti Program or Cuba 
Service of the Voice of America), including the purchase, rent, 
construction, and improvement of facilities for radio transmission and 
reception and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for radio 
transmission and reception as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1471, $14,000,000, 
to remain available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1477b(a), 
of which $5,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation until 30 days 
after the Director of the United States Information Agency submits a 
report to Congress which certifies receipt of the report of the Advisory 
Panel on Radio Marti and TV Marti and specifies the measures the United 
States Information Agency is taking with respect to the recommendations 
of the panel.

                     television broadcasting to cuba

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to carry out the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 
1465aa et seq.), including the purchase, rent, construction, and 
improvement of facilities for television transmission and reception, and 
purchase and installation of necessary equipment for television 
transmission and reception, $7,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not later than July 1, 1994, the Director of 
the United States Information Agency shall submit to Congress, after 
consulting with the Board for International Broadcasting and after 
taking into account any relevant recommendations of the Advisory Panel 
on Radio Marti and TV Marti, his recommendations as to whether TV Marti 
broadcasting is technically sound and effective and is consistently 
being received by a sufficient Cuban audience to warrant its 
continuation and whether the interests of the United States are better 
served by maintaining television broadcasting to Cuba, by terminating 
television broadcasting to Cuba and strengthening radio broadcasting to 
Cuba, or by funding other activities related to promoting democracy in 
Cuba authorized by law: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated in this paragraph, $2,500,000 shall be withheld from 
obligation until after July 1, 1994, and, after that date, funds shall 
be available only for the orderly termination of television broadcasting 
to Cuba unless the Director of the United States Information Agency 
determines, in the report to Congress called for in the Administrative 
Provision Establishing the Advisory Panel on Radio Marti and TV Marti, 
that maintaining television broadcasting to Cuba is technically sound 
and effective, is consistently being received by a sufficient Cuban 
audience to warrant its continuation, and is in the best interests of 
the United States.


    Administrative Provision Establishing the Advisory Panel on Radio 
                           Marti and TV Marti

    (a) Establishment.--There is established an advisory panel to be 
known as the Advisory Panel on Radio Marti and TV Marti (in this section 
referred to as the ``Panel'').
    (b) Functions.--The Panel shall study the purposes, policies, and 
practices of radio and television broadcasting to Cuba (commonly 
referred to as ``Radio Marti'' and ``TV Marti'') by the Cuba Service of 
the Voice of America.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
members of the Panel have been appointed pursuant to subsection (d), the 
Panel shall submit to the Congress and the United States Information 
Agency (USIA) a report which shall contain--
        (1) a statement of the findings and conclusions of the Panel on 
    the matters described in subsection (b); and
        (2) specific findings and recommendations with respect to 
    whether--
            (A) such broadcasting consistently meets the standards for 
        quality and objectivity established by law or by the United 
        States Information Agency;
            (B) such broadcasting is cost-effective;
            (C) the extent to which such broadcasting is already being 
        received by the Cuban people on a daily basis from credible 
        sources; and
            (D) TV Marti broadcasting is technically sound and effective 
        and is consistently being received by a sufficient Cuban 
        audience to warrant its continuation.
    (d) Composition.--(1) The Panel shall be composed of three members, 
who shall among them have expertise in government information and 
broadcasting programs, broadcast journalism, journalistic ethics, and 
the technical aspects of radio and television broadcasting.
    (2) The Director of the United States Information Agency shall 
appoint the members of the Panel not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act. Individuals appointed to the Panel shall 
be noted for their integrity, expertise, and independence of judgment 
consistent with the purposes of the Panel.
    (3) Each member of the Panel shall be appointed for the life of the 
Panel. A vacancy in the Panel shall be filled in the manner in which the 
original appointment was made.
    (4) Each member of the Panel shall serve without pay, except that 
such member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, 
United States Code.
    (e) Temporary Personnel.--(1) The Panel may procure temporary and 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code (relating to employment of experts and consultants), at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-
15 of the General Schedule.
    (2) Upon request of the Panel, the head of any Federal agency may 
detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the agency to 
the Panel to assist it in carrying out its duties under this section.
    (3) Support Services.--The United States Information Agency shall 
provide facilities, supplies, and support services to the Panel upon 
request.
    (f) Termination.--The Panel shall terminate immediately upon 
submitting its report pursuant to subsection (c).


                            north/south center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the North/South Center Act of 
1991 (22 U.S.C. 2075), by grant to an educational institution in Florida 
known as the North/South Center, $8,700,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act for the United 
States Information Agency and the Department of State may be obligated 
and expended at the rate of operations and under the terms and 
conditions provided by H.R. 2519 as enacted into law, notwithstanding 
section 701 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948 and section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act 
of 1956 except that this proviso shall cease to be effective after April 
30, 1994 or upon enactment into law of H.R. 2333, the State Department, 
USIA, and Related Agencies Authorization Act, fiscal years 1994 and 1995 
or similar legislation, whichever first occurs.


                     national endowment for democracy

    For grants made by the United States Information Agency to the 
National Endowment for Democracy as authorized by the National Endowment 
for Democracy Act, $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
disbursed to grantees who have not reimbursed the National Endowment for 
Democracy, from nongovernmental funds, for disallowed expenditures by 
such grantees for first class travel, alcohol and entertainment, 
identified in the March 1993 report of the Inspector General of the 
United States Information Agency.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds 
which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, project, or 
activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) 
relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or 
activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
activities presently performed by Federal employees; unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 per centum, 
whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities; (2) reduces by 10 per centum funding for any existing 
program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 per centum 
as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general savings from a 
reduction in personnel which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress, unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.


              sense of congress; requirement regarding notice

    Sec. 606. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in 
expending the assistance, to the extent feasible, purchase only 
American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Head of the agency shall provide to each 
recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 607. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), 
overhaul, conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National 
Oceanic and Atmosphereic Administration in shipyards located outside of 
the United States.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used for the 
construction, repair (other than emergency repair), conversion, or 
modernization of aircraft for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in facilities located outside the United States and 
Canada.
    Sec. 608. (a) Funds appropriated under this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation and distributed to each grantee funded in fiscal 
year 1994, pursuant to the number of poor people determined by the 
Bureau of the Census to be within its geographical area, shall be 
distributed in the following order:
        (1) Grants from the Legal Services Corporation and contracts 
    entered into with the Legal Services Corporation under section 
    1006(a)(1) of the Legal Services Corporation Act, as amended, shall 
    be maintained in fiscal year 1994 at not less than the annual level 
    at which each grantee and contractor was funded in fiscal year 1993 
    pursuant to Public Law P102-395.
        (2) Each grantee or contractor for basic field funds under 
    section 1006(a)(1) shall receive an increase of not less than 2.5 
    percent over its fiscal year 1993 grant level. Any additional 
    increase in funding for grants and contracts to basic field programs 
    under section 1006(a)(1) shall be awarded to grantees and 
    contractors funded at the lowest levels per-poor-person (calculated 
    for each grantee or contractor by dividing each such grantee's or 
    contractor's fiscal year 1993 grant level by the number of poor 
    persons within its geographical area under the 1990 census) so as to 
    fund the largest number of programs possible at an equal per-poor-
    person amount.
        (3) Any increase above the fiscal year 1993 level for grants and 
    contracts to migrant programs under section 1006(a)(1) shall be 
    awarded on a per migrant and dependent basis calculated by dividing 
    each such grantee's or contractor's fiscal year 1993 grant level by 
    the state migrant and dependent population, which shall be derived 
    by applying the state migrant and dependent population percentage as 
    determined by the 1992 Larson-Plascencia study of the Tomas Rivera 
    Center migrant enumeration project. This percentage shall be applied 
    to a population figure of 1,661,875 migrants and dependents. These 
    funds shall be distributed in the following order:
            (A) 40 percent to migrant grantees and contractors funded at 
        the lowest levels per migrant (including dependents) so as to 
        fund the largest number of programs possible at an equal per 
        migrant and dependent amount.
            (B) 40 percent to migrant grantees and contractors such that 
        each grantee or contractor funded at a level of less than $19.74 
        per migrant and dependent shall be increased by an equal 
        percentage of the amount by which such grantee's or contractor's 
        funding, including the increases under subparagraph (A) above, 
        falls below $19.74 per migrant and dependent, within its State.
            (C) 20 percent on an equal migrant and dependent basis to 
        all migrant grantees and contractors funded below $19.74 per 
        migrant and dependent within its State.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or 
limited by or contrary to any of the provisions of--
        (1) section 607 of Public Law 101-515, and that, except for the 
    funding formula, all funds appropriated for the Legal Services 
    Corporation shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as set 
    forth in section 607 of Public Law 101-515 and all references to 
    ``1991'' in section 607 of Public Law 101-515 shall be deemed to be 
    ``1994'' unless subparagraph (2) or (3) applies;
        (2) subparagraph 1, except that, if a Board of eleven Directors 
    is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, provisos 
    20 and 22 shall not apply to such a confirmed Board;
        (3) authorizing legislation for fiscal year 1994 for the Legal 
    Services Corporation that is enacted into law.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.