[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2491 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2491
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
boards, commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, boards, 
commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration


                         compensation and pensions

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of veterans 
as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 51, 53, 55, and 
61); pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by law 
(38 U.S.C. chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and burial 
benefits, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service 
credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life 
insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of Article IV of the 
Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, and for 
other benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 1312, 1977, and 
2106, chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 540-548; 43 Stat. 
122, 123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198), $16,828,446,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not less than $38,919,000 of 
the amount appropriated shall be reimbursed to ``General operating 
expenses'' and ``Medical care'' for necessary expenses in implementing 
those provisions authorized in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1990, Public Law 101-508, and in the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992, 
Public Law 102-568, the funding source for which is specifically 
provided as the ``Compensation and pensions'' appropriation: Provided 
further, That $6,000,000 of the amount appropriated shall be transferred 
to ``Medical facilities revolving fund'' to augment the funding of 
individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided to 
pensioners as authorized by the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992, Public 
Law 102-568.

                          readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or on 
behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 31, 
35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61), $947,400,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to pay any court 
order, court award or any compromise settlement arising from litigation 
involving the vocational training program authorized by section 18 of 
Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapter 
19; 70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487), $15,370,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 guaranty and indemnity program account


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $56,231,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                      loan guaranty program account


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 
U.S.C. chapter 37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $70,716,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                       direct loan program account


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the purpose of the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, 
as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That during 1994, within the 
resources available, not to exceed $1,000,000 in gross obligations for 
direct loans are authorized for specially adapted housing loans (38 
U.S.C. chapter 37).
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $2,863,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


                    education loan fund program account

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,032, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $3,571.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $186,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


              Vocational Rehabilitation Loans Program Account

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $53,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $2,387,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $751,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.


           native american veteran housing loan program account

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 38, U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, 
$156,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses''.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, as 
authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
equipment; funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for 
beneficiaries receiving care in Department of Veterans Affairs 
facilities; administrative expenses in support of planning, design, 
project management, real property acquisition and disposition, 
construction and renovation of any facility under the jurisdiction or 
for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs; oversight, 
engineering and architectural activities not charged to project cost; 
repairing, altering, improving or providing facilities in the several 
hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by the hire 
of temporary employees and purchase of materials; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); aid to State homes 
as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 1741); and not to exceed $2,000,000 to 
fund cost comparison studies as referred to in 38 U.S.C. 8110(a)(5); 
$15,622,452,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $651,000,000 is for the equipment and land 
and structures object classifications only, which amount shall not 
become available for obligation until August 1, 1994, and shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided further, 
That of the sum appropriated, $8,000,000 is for homeless programs 
authorized by sections 2, 3, and 4 of Public Law 102-590.

                     medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
chapter 73), to remain available until September 30, 1995, $252,000,000, 
plus reimbursements.


                  health professional scholarship program

    For payment of health professional scholarship program grants, as 
authorized by law, to students who agree to a service obligation with 
the Department of Veterans Affairs at one of its medical facilities, 
$10,386,000.


        medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, architectural, engineering, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction and renovation of any 
facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including site acquisition; engineering and 
architectural activities not charged to project cost; and research and 
development in building construction technology; $68,500,000, plus 
reimbursements.


                 grants to the republic of the philippines

    For payment to the Republic of the Philippines of grants, as 
authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 1732), for assisting in the replacement and 
upgrading of equipment and in rehabilitating the physical plant and 
facilities of the Veterans Memorial Medical Center, $500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995.


                     Transitional Housing Loan Program

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $70,000. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out the direct loan program, $52,000, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the ``General post fund'', as authorized 
by Public Law 102-54, section 8.

                       Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law; not to exceed $25,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security 
guard services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of overseas 
employee mail; $826,749,000.


                         national cemetery system

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery System not otherwise provided for, including uniforms 
or allowances therefor, as authorized by law; cemeterial expenses as 
authorized by law; purchase of six passenger motor vehicles, for use in 
cemeterial operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$70,507,000.


                        office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $31,436,000.


                       construction, major projects

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 38, 
United States Code, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
$3,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made available in a 
previous major project appropriation, $369,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $14,000,000 shall be 
transferred from the Parking revolving fund to this account and the 
amounts transferred shall be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as funds appropriated to this account: Provided 
further, That except for advance planning of projects funded through the 
advance planning fund and the design of projects funded through the 
design fund, none of these funds shall be used for any project which has 
not been considered and approved by the Congress in the budgetary 
process: Provided further, That funds provided in this appropriation for 
fiscal year 1994, for each approved project shall be obligated (1) by 
the awarding of a construction documents contract by September 30, 1994, 
and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 
1995: Provided further, That the Secretary shall promptly report in 
writing to the Comptroller General and to the Committees on 
Appropriations any approved major construction project in which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above; and the Comptroller General shall review the report in accordance 
with the procedures established by section 1015 of the Impoundment 
Control Act of 1974 (title X of Public Law 93-344): Provided further, 
That no funds from any other account except the ``Parking revolving 
fund'', may be obligated for constructing, altering, extending, or 
improving a project which was approved in the budget process and funded 
in this account until one year after substantial completion and 
beneficial occupancy by the Department of Veterans Affairs of the 
project or any part thereof with respect to that part only.


                       construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 
316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 
38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project is less 
than $3,000,000, $153,540,000, to remain available until expended, along 
with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where the 
estimated cost is less than $3,000,000: Provided, That funds in this 
account shall be available for (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by 
any natural disaster or catastrophe, and (2) temporary measures 
necessary to prevent or to minimize further loss by such causes.


                          parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 
8109), $1,353,000, together with income from fees collected, to remain 
available until expended. Resources of this fund shall be available for 
all expenses authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109 except operations and 
maintenance costs which will be funded from ``Medical care''.


         grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist the several States to acquire or construct 
State nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or 
alter existing hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in 
State homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. 8131-8137), $41,080,000, to remain available until expended.


         grants for the construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 2408), 
$5,242,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996.


                         administrative provisions

                       (including transfer of funds)

    Any appropriation for 1994 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
may be transferred to any other of the mentioned appropriations.
    Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
1994 for salaries and expenses shall be available for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    No part of the appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'' and the ``Parking revolving 
fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for or toward 
the construction of any new hospital or home.
    No part of the foregoing appropriations shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons except beneficiaries 
entitled under the laws bestowing such benefits to veterans, unless 
reimbursement of cost is made to the appropriation at such rates as may 
be fixed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
fiscal year 1994 for ``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment 
benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' shall be 
available for payment of prior year accrued obligations required to be 
recorded by law against the aforementioned accounts within the last 
quarter of fiscal year 1993.
    Appropriations accounts available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 1994 shall be available to pay prior year 
obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund accounts 
they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN

                               DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


     homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere grants (hope 
                                 grants)

                      (including rescission of funds)

    For the homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere (HOPE 
grants) program as authorized under title III of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437aaa et seq.) and subtitles A, B, C, 
and D of title IV of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (Public Law 101-625), $109,190,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which up to one and one-half percent may be made available 
for technical assistance to potential applicants, applicants and 
recipients of assistance under this head as authorized under subtitle E 
of title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992: 
Provided, That of the foregoing amount, not more than $28,000,000 may be 
made available to carry out activities under subtitle D of title IV of 
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-389 and 
Public Law 102-139, $250,000,000 are rescinded: Provided, That of the 
foregoing amount, $130,000,000 shall be deducted from the amount 
earmarked for HOPE for the Public and Indian Housing Homeownership 
Program and $75,000,000 shall be deducted from the amount earmarked for 
HOPE for Homeownership of Multifamily Units Program in Public Law 102-
389, and $45,000,000 shall be deducted from the amount earmarked for 
HOPE for the Public and Indian Housing Homeownership Program in Public 
Law 102-139.


                   home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,275,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


                 annual contributions for assisted housing

                      (including rescission of funds)

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 1437), not otherwise provided 
for, $9,312,900,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
to be added to and merged with the foregoing amounts there shall be up 
to $242,680,000 of amounts of budget authority (and contract authority) 
reserved or obligated in prior years for the development or acquisition 
costs of public housing (including public housing for Indian families), 
for modernization of existing public housing projects (including such 
projects for Indian families), and, except as herein provided, for 
programs under section 8 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f), which are 
recaptured during fiscal year 1994; and up to $203,000,000 of amounts of 
budget authority for rental assistance under section 8 of the Act and 
section 162(h) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 
recaptured during fiscal year 1992 as a result of the conversion of 
section 202 direct loans to capital grants: Provided further, That of 
the total amount provided under this head, $263,000,000 shall be for the 
development or acquisition cost of public housing for Indian families, 
including amounts for housing under the mutual help homeownership 
opportunity program under section 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437bb); and 
$598,000,000 shall be for the development or acquisition cost of public 
housing, of which up to one-half of one percent shall be available for 
technical assistance and inspection of public housing agencies by the 
Secretary: Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this head, $3,230,000,000 shall be for modernization of existing public 
housing projects pursuant to section 14 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437l), 
including up to two-fifths of one percent for the inspection of 
modernization units and provision of management and technical assistance 
by the Secretary for troubled public housing agencies and Indian housing 
authorities: Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this head, $1,326,865,000 shall be for rental assistance under the 
section 8 existing housing certificate program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) and the 
housing voucher program under section 8(o) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
1437f(o)): Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this head, $8,400,000 shall be available for fees under section 23(h) 
for the family self-sufficiency program (42 U.S.C. 1437u): Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this head, $900,000,000 
shall be for amendments to section 8 contracts other than contracts for 
projects developed under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and $541,000,000 shall be for assistance for State or local 
units of government, tenant and nonprofit organizations to purchase 
projects where owners have indicated an intent to prepay mortgages and 
for assistance to be used as an incentive to prevent prepayment or for 
vouchers to aid eligible tenants adversely affected by mortgage 
prepayment, as authorized in the Emergency Low-Income Housing 
Preservation Act of 1987, as amended: Provided further, That those 
portions of the fees for the costs incurred in administering incremental 
units assisted in the certificate and housing voucher programs under 
sections 8(b), 8(o), and 8(e)(2) shall be established or increased in 
accordance with the authorization for such fees in section 8(q) of the 
Act: Provided further, That 50 per centum of the amounts of budget 
authority, or in lieu thereof 50 per centum of the cash amounts 
associated with such budget authority, that are recaptured from projects 
described in section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-628, 102 Stat. 3224, 
3268) shall be rescinded, or in the case of cash, shall be remitted to 
the Treasury, and such amounts of budget authority or cash recaptured 
and not rescinded or remitted to the Treasury shall be used by State 
housing finance agencies or local governments or local housing agencies 
with projects approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
for which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with 
such section: Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this head, $156,000,000 shall be for housing opportunities for persons 
with AIDS under title VIII, subtitle D of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, $150,000,000 shall be for the lead-based paint 
hazard reduction program as authorized under sections 1011 and 1053 of 
the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, and $30,000,000 
shall be for service coordinators in public housing pursuant to section 
9(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $1,158,000,000 shall 
be for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance, 
and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, for 
supportive housing for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the 
Housing Act of 1959: Provided further, That $22,000,000 shall be for 
service coordinators pursuant to section 202(q) of the Housing Act of 
1959.
    Of the total amount provided under this head, $387,000,000 shall be 
for capital advances, including amendments to capital advances 
contracts, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as 
authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act; and for project rental assistance, and amendments to 
contracts for project rental assistance, for supportive housing for 
persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.


    assistance for the renewal of expiring section 8 subsidy contracts

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437) not otherwise provided for, for use in connection with 
expiring section 8 subsidy contracts, $4,558,106,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That to the extent the amount in 
this appropriation is insufficient to fund all expiring section 8 
contracts, the Secretary may transfer to and merge with this 
appropriation such amounts from the ``Annual contributions for assisted 
housing'' appropriation as the Secretary shall determine, and amounts 
earmarked in the foregoing account may be reduced accordingly, at the 
Secretary's discretion: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
maintain consolidated accounting data for funds disbursed at the public 
housing agency or Indian housing authority or project level for subsidy 
assistance regardless of the source of the disbursement so as to 
minimize the administrative burden of multiple accounts.
    Further, for the foregoing purposes, $800,000,000, to become 
available for obligation on October 1, 1994, and to remain available for 
obligation until expended.


                         rental housing assistance

                               (rescission)

    The limitation otherwise applicable to the maximum payments that may 
be required in any fiscal year by all contracts entered into under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) is reduced 
in fiscal year 1994 by not more than $2,000,000 in uncommitted balances 
of authorizations provided for this purpose in appropriations Acts: 
Provided, That up to $45,515,000 of recaptured section 236 budget 
authority resulting from the prepayment of mortgages subsidized under 
section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) shall be 
rescinded in fiscal year 1994: Provided further, That to the extent that 
the recaptures and rescission during fiscal year 1994 are less than 
$45,515,000, the total funding provided under the head ``Annual 
contributions for assisted housing'' and the budget authority provided 
under that head for assistance in connection with mortgage prepayments 
shall be reduced accordingly.


                          rent supplement program

                               (Rescission)

    The limitation otherwise applicable to the maximum payments that may 
be required in any fiscal year by all contracts entered into under 
section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 
1701s), is reduced in fiscal year 1994 by not more than $1,544,646 of 
uncommitted balances of authorizations provided for this purpose in 
appropriations Acts.


                            congregate services

    For contracts with and payments to public housing agencies and 
nonprofit corporations for congregate services programs, $6,267,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1995, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Congregate Services Act of 1978, as amended.
    For contracts with and payments to public housing agencies and 
nonprofit corporations for congregate services programs under section 
802 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (Public Law 
101-625), $18,733,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995.


           payments for operation of low-income housing projects

    For payments to public housing agencies and Indian housing 
authorities for operating subsidies for low-income housing projects as 
authorized by section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), $2,620,808,000.


                severely distressed public housing projects

    For the urban revitalization demonstration program under the third 
paragraph under the head ``Homeownership and Opportunity for People 
Everywhere grants (HOPE grants)'' in the Departments of Veterans Affairs 
and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1993, Public Law 102-389, 106 Stat. 1571, 1579, 
$778,240,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding the first proviso in such third paragraph, the Secretary 
shall have discretion to approve funding for more than fifteen 
applicants: Provided further, That no part of the foregoing amount that 
is used for the urban revitalization demonstration program shall be made 
available for an application that was not submitted to the Secretary by 
May 26, 1993: Provided further, That of the foregoing $778,240,000, the 
Secretary may use up to $2,500,000 for technical assistance under such 
urban revitalization demonstration, to be made available directly, or 
indirectly under contracts or grants, as appropriate: Provided further, 
That nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the Secretary from 
conforming the program's standards and criteria set forth herein, with 
subsequent authorization legislation that may be enacted into law: 
Provided further, That of the $778,240,000 made available under this 
heading, $20,000,000 shall be made to eligible grantees under the urban 
revitalization demonstration program, to implement programs authorized 
under subtitle D of title IV, and of which, $10,000,000 shall be made 
for youth apprenticeship training activities for joint labor-management 
organizations pursuant to section 3(c)(2)(B) of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968, as amended.


           innovative homeless initiatives demonstration program

    For the innovative homeless initiatives demonstration program as 
authorized by section 2 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended.


    capacity building for community development and affordable housing

    For the capacity building for community development and affordable 
housing program as authorized by section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act 
of 1993, $20,000,000.


              drug elimination grants for low-income housing

    For grants to public housing agencies for use in eliminating drug-
related crime in public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11901-
11908, and for drug information clearinghouse services authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 11921-11925, $265,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not more than $198,750,000 shall be available for grants 
to housing authorities with greater than 1,250 public housing units: 
Provided further, That not more than $53,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to housing authorities with less than 1,250 public housing units: 
Provided further, That not more than $13,250,000 shall be available for 
grants for federally-assisted, low-income housing.


         national cities in schools community development program

    For the national cities in schools community development program, as 
authorized under section 930 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-550), $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                       housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, for providing counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners--both 
current and prospective--with respect to property maintenance, financial 
management, and such other matters as may be appropriate to assist them 
in improving their housing conditions and meeting the responsibilities 
of tenancy or homeownership, including provisions for training and for 
support of voluntary agencies and services as authorized by section 
106(a)(1)(iii), section 106(a)(2), section 106(c), section 106(d), 
section 106(e), and section 106(f) of the Housing and Urban Development 
Act of 1968, as amended, $12,000,000.


                           flexible subsidy fund

    For assistance to owners of eligible multifamily housing projects 
insured, or formerly insured, and under the National Housing Act, as 
amended, or which are otherwise eligible for assistance under section 
201(c) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a), in the program of assistance for troubled 
multifamily housing projects under the Housing and Community Development 
Amendments of 1978, as amended, $35,747,000, and all uncommitted 
balances of excess rental charges as of September 30, 1993, and any 
collections and other amounts in the fund authorized under section 
201(j) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as 
amended, during fiscal year 1994, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That assistance to an owner of a multifamily housing project 
assisted, but not insured, under the National Housing Act may be made if 
the project owner and the mortgagee have provided or agreed to provide 
assistance to the project in a manner as determined by the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development.

                     Federal Housing Administration


               fha-mutual mortgage insurance program account

                      (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 1994, commitments to guarantee loans to carry out 
the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed a loan principal of $64,564,645,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, $262,810,000, to be derived from the FHA-mutual mortgage 
insurance guaranteed loans receipt account, of which not to exceed 
$256,682,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for salaries and 
expenses; and of which not to exceed $6,128,000 shall be transferred to 
the appropriation for the Office of Inspector General.


               fha--general and special risk program account

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $147,371,000, as authorized by the 
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3(b) and 1735c(f)): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
total loan principal any part of which is to be guaranteed of not to 
exceed $13,436,205,000: Provided further, That of the foregoing amount 
provided to subsidize program costs, not more than $36,842,750 may be 
obligated by January 1, 1994, not more than $73,685,500 may be obligated 
by April 1, 1994, and not more than $110,528,250 may be obligated by 
July 1, 1994.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed loan programs, $192,252,000, of which $188,190,000 shall be 
transferred to the appropriation for salaries and expenses; and of which 
$4,062,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of 
Inspector General.

                Government National Mortgage Association


     guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program 
                                 account

                       (includes transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 1994, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $130,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $8,038,000, to be derived from the 
GNMA--guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $8,038,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for salaries and expenses.

                           Homeless Assistance


                     emergency shelter grants program

    For the emergency shelter grants program, as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act (Public Law 100-77), as amended, $115,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


                        supportive housing program

    For the supportive housing program, as authorized under subtitle C 
of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public 
Law 100-77), as amended, $334,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 may be used for a safe 
havens demonstration initiative, including activities authorized within 
subtitle D of such Act, and not to exceed $20,000,000 may be used for a 
rural homeless demonstration initiative, including activities authorized 
within subtitle G of such Act.


                     section 8 moderate rehabilitation

                           single room occupancy

    For assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1437f), for the section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
program, to be used to assist homeless individuals pursuant to section 
441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11401), $150,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                            shelter plus care

    For the shelter plus care program, as authorized by subtitle F of 
title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 
100-77), as amended, $123,747,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for carrying out 
a community development grants program as authorized by title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
5301), $4,400,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: 
Provided, That $44,000,000 shall be available for grants to Indian 
tribes pursuant to section 106(a)(1) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301), and $45,000,000 
shall be available for ``special purpose grants'' pursuant to section 
107 of such Act: Provided further, That not to exceed 20 per centum of 
any grant made with funds appropriated herein (other than a grant using 
funds under section 107(b)(3) of such Act or funds set aside in the 
following provisos) shall be expended for ``Planning and Management 
Development'' and ``Administration'' as defined in regulations 
promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development: Provided 
further, That $15,000,000 shall be made available from the total amount 
provided to carry out an early childhood development program under 
section 222 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-6 note), including services for families that 
are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless: Provided further, That 
$5,000,000 shall be made available from the total amount provided to 
carry out a neighborhood development program under section 123 of said 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5318 note).
    During fiscal year 1994, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 108 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301), shall not exceed 
$2,054,000,000.

                     Policy Development and Research


                          research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $35,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995.

                             Indian Housing


                    indian housing loan guarantee fund

    For the cost (as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans authorized by section 184 of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 3739), 
$1,000,000. Such funds shall be available to subsidize guarantees of 
total loan principal in an amount not to exceed $25,000,000.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity


                          fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided, 
That $20,481,000 shall be available to carry out activities pursuant to 
section 561 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987.

                      Management and Administration


                           salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative and nonadministrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided for, 
including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $916,963,000, of which $444,872,000 shall be provided from the 
various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, and $8,038,000 
shall be provided from funds of the Government National Mortgage 
Association.


                        office of inspector general

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $46,305,000, of which $10,190,000 shall be transferred from the 
various funds of the Federal Housing Administration.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight


                           salaries and expenses

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety and 
Soundness Act of 1992, $10,700,000, to remain available until expended, 
from the Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Fund: Provided, That such 
amounts shall be collected by the Director as authorized by section 1316 
(a) and (b) of such Act, and deposited in the Fund under section 
1316(f): Provided further, That notwithstanding the last sentence in 
section 1316(e) of such Act, the amount of this first annual assessment 
shall not be reduced by any part of the amount of the initial special 
assessment under section 1316(e): Provided further, That not more than 
$5,000,000 of the amounts made available under this heading may be used 
for personnel compensation and benefits.

                        Administrative Provision

    None of the funds provided under this title to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, which are obligated to State or local 
governments or to housing finance agencies or other public or quasi-
public housing agencies, shall be used to indemnify contractors or 
subcontractors of the government or agency against costs associated with 
judgments of infringement of intellectual property rights.

                                TITLE III

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries; 
$20,211,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That where 
station allowance has been authorized by the Department of the Army for 
officers of the Army serving the Army at certain foreign stations, the 
same allowance shall be authorized for officers of the Armed Forces 
assigned to the Commission while serving at the same foreign stations, 
and this appropriation is hereby made available for the payment of such 
allowance: Provided further, That when traveling on business of the 
Commission, officers of the Armed Forces serving as members or as 
Secretary of the Commission may be reimbursed for expenses as provided 
for civilian members of the Commission: Provided further, That the 
Commission shall reimburse other Government agencies, including the 
Armed Forces, for salary, pay, and allowances of personnel assigned to 
it: Provided further, That section 509 of the general provisions carried 
in title V of this Act shall not apply to the funds provided under this 
heading: Provided further, That not more than $125,000 of the private 
contributions to the Korean War Memorial Fund may be used for 
administrative support of the Korean War Veterans Memorial Advisory 
Board including travel by members of the board authorized by the 
Commission, travel allowances to conform to those provided by Federal 
travel regulations.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, including 
hire of passenger vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent 
to the maximum rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 
5376, $2,500,000.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18, purchase of nominal awards to 
recognize non-Federal officials' contributions to Commission activities, 
and not to exceed $500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $42,286,000.

                        Court of Veterans Appeals


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. sections 7251-7292, 
$9,159,000, to be available without regard to section 509 of this Act, 
of which not to exceed $790,000, to remain available until September 30, 
1995, shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth under this head in Public Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $12,738,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Environmental Protection Agency


                         research and development

    For research and development activities, including procurement of 
laboratory equipment and supplies; other operating expenses in support 
of research and development; and construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; $338,701,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That not more than $50,600,000 of these funds shall be 
available for procurement of laboratory equipment, supplies, and other 
operating expenses in support of research and development.


                    abatement, control, and compliance

    For abatement, control, and compliance activities, including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
purchase of reprints; library memberships in societies or associations 
which issue publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
than to subscribers who are not members; construction, alteration, 
repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed 
$75,000 per project; and not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $1,352,535,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1995: Provided, That not more than $283,000,000 of these 
funds shall be available for operating expenses: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this head shall be available to the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration pursuant to section 
118(h)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended: 
Provided further, That none of these funds may be expended for purposes 
of resource conservation and recovery panels established under section 
2003 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 6913), or for support to State, regional, local, and interstate 
agencies in accordance with subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 
as amended, other than section 4008(a)(2) or 4009 (42 U.S.C. 6948, 
6949): Provided further, That from funds appropriated under this 
heading, the Administrator may make grants to federally recognized 
Indian governments for the development of multimedia environmental 
programs.


                      program and research operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel 
compensation and benefit costs and for travel expenses, including 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
and for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for 
GS-18; $850,625,000: Provided, That none of these funds may be expended 
for purposes of resource conservation and recovery panels established 
under section 2003 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 6913).


                        office of inspector general

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$44,595,000, of which $16,278,000 shall be derived from the Hazardous 
Substance Superfund trust fund and $669,100 shall be derived from the 
Leaking Underground Storage Tank trust fund.


                         buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment for facilities of, or use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $18,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                      hazardous substance superfund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111 (c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; 
$1,465,853,000, consisting of $1,215,853,000 as authorized by section 
517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 
(SARA), as amended by Public Law 101-508, and $250,000,000 as a payment 
from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund as authorized 
by section 517(b) of SARA, as amended by Public Law 101-508, plus sums 
recovered on behalf of the Hazardous Substance Superfund in excess of 
$251,954,000 during fiscal year 1994, with all of such funds to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
heading may be allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with 
section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
111(m) of CERCLA or any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$67,036,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to 
carry out activities described in sections 104(i), 111(c)(4), and 
111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 118(f) of the Superfund Amendments and 
Reauthorization Act of 1986: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for the Agency for 
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to issue in excess of 40 
toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during 
fiscal year 1994: Provided further, That no more than $280,000,000 of 
these funds shall be available for administrative expenses of the 
Environmental Protection Agency: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be made available for program 
management of Alternative Remedial Contracting Strategy (ARCS) contracts 
exceeding 11 percent of the total cost of such contract.


                leaking underground storage tank trust fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund Amendments 
and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, alteration, 
repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed 
$75,000 per project, $75,379,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $7,400,000 shall be available for 
administrative expenses.


                            oil spill response

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$21,239,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That not more than 
$7,650,000 of these funds shall be available for administrative 
expenses.


                water infrastructure/state revolving funds

    For necessary expenses for capitalization grants for State revolving 
funds to support water infrastructure financing, and to carry out the 
purposes of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, and the 
Water Quality Act of 1987, $2,477,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $500,000,000 shall not become available until May 31, 
1994: Provided, That of the amount which becomes available on October 1, 
1993, $1,817,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for State 
revolving funds; $22,000,000 shall be for making grants under section 
104(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended; 
$80,000,000 shall be for making grants under section 319 of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended; and $58,000,000 shall be for 
section 510 of the Water Quality Act of 1987.


                         administrative provisions

    None of the funds provided for in this Act may be used within the 
Environmental Protection Agency during any period of fiscal year 1994 to 
classify or conduct any activities resulting from the classification of 
hops as a processed commodity for the purposes of administering 
regulations pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
U.S.C. 301-376) and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide 
Act (7 U.S.C. 136-136y).
    None of the funds provided in this Act may be used within the 
Environmental Protection Agency for any final action by the 
Administrator or her delegate for signing and publishing for 
promulgation of a rule concerning any new standard for radon in drinking 
water.
    No funds appropriated by this Act may be used during fiscal year 
1994 to enforce the requirements of section 211(m)(2) of the Clean Air 
Act that require fuel refiners, marketers, or persons who sell or 
dispense fuel to ultimate consumers in any carbon monoxide nonattainment 
area in Alaska to use methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) to meet the 
oxygen requirements of that section.

                    Executive Office of the President


                  office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia, $4,450,000: Provided, That the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall reimburse other agencies for not less than one-
half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals detailed to it.


                        office of national service

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Service within the 
Office of Administration of the Executive Office of the President as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 107, $160,000: Provided, That not more than 
$50,000 shall be used for reimbursing detailees.


   council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the Council 
on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality pursuant to 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Environmental Quality 
Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, 
$375,000.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the functions of the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.), $292,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             disaster assistance direct loan program account

    Funds provided to this account are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $95,000.


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343); uniforms, or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18; expenses of attendance of 
cooperating officials and individuals at meetings concerned with the 
work of emergency preparedness; transportation in connection with the 
continuity of Government programs to the same extent and in the same 
manner as permitted the Secretary of a Military Department under 10 
U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $160,409,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $4,350,000.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Federal Civil Defense Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2251 et seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2061 et seq.), section 107 of the National Security Act, and 
Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978, $212,960,000.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    There is hereby appropriated $130,000,000 to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency to carry out an emergency food and shelter program 
pursuant to title III of Public Law 100-77, as amended: Provided, That 
total administrative costs shall not exceed three and one-half per 
centum of the total appropriation.


                       national flood insurance fund

                           (transfers of funds)

    Of the funds available from the National Flood Insurance Fund for 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and the Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973, $14,081,000 shall be transferred as 
needed to the ``Salaries and expenses'' appropriation for administrative 
costs of the insurance and flood plain management programs and 
$48,092,000 shall be transferred as needed to the ``Emergency management 
planning and assistance'' appropriation for flood plain management 
activities, including $4,720,000 for expenses under section 1362 of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4103, 4127), 
which amount shall be available until September 30, 1995. In fiscal year 
1994, no funds in excess of (1) $32,000,000 for operating expenses, (2) 
$252,366,000 for agents' commissions and taxes, and (3) $3,500,000 for 
interest on Treasury borrowings shall be available from the National 
Flood Insurance Fund without prior notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        administrative provision

    The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall 
promulgate through rulemaking a schedule of fees applicable to persons 
subject to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's radiological 
emergency preparedness regulations. The aggregate charges assessed 
pursuant to this section during fiscal year 1994 shall approximate, but 
not be less than, 100 per centum of the amounts anticipated by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency to be obligated for its radiological 
emergency preparedness program for such fiscal year. The schedule of 
fees shall be fair and equitable, and shall reflect the full amount of 
direct and indirect costs incurred through the provision of regulatory 
services. Such fees will be assessed in a manner that reflects the use 
of agency resources for classes of regulated persons and the 
administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received pursuant to 
this section shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as 
offsetting receipts. Assessment and collection of such fees are only 
authorized during fiscal year 1994.

                     General Services Administration


                        consumer information center

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,074,000, to be deposited into 
the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the appropriations, 
revenues and collections deposited into the fund shall be available for 
necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center activities in the 
aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Administrative expenses of the Consumer 
Information Center in fiscal year 1994 shall not exceed $2,415,000. 
Appropriations, revenues, and collections accruing to this fund during 
fiscal year 1994 in excess of $7,500,000 shall remain in the fund and 
shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

                 Department of Health and Human Services

                       office of consumer affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Consumer Affairs, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,159,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, that Office may solicit, 
accept and deposit to this account, during fiscal year 1994, gifts for 
the purpose of defraying its costs of printing, publishing, and 
distributing consumer information and educational materials; may expend 
up to $1,100,000 of those gifts for those purposes, in addition to 
amounts otherwise appropriated; and the balance shall remain available 
for expenditure for such purposes to the extent authorized in subsequent 
appropriations Acts: Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
under this heading may be made available for any other activities within 
the Department of Health and Human Services.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                         research and development

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including 
research, development, operations, services, minor construction, 
maintenance, repair, rehabilitation and modification of real and 
personal property; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation 
of mission and administrative aircraft, necessary for the conduct and 
support of aeronautical and space research and development activities of 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; not to exceed $35,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to 
exceed thirty-three for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $7,509,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000,000 under this Act shall be 
available for the Towards Other Planetary Systems/High Resolution 
Microwave Survey program (also known as the Search for Extraterrestrial 
Intelligence project): Provided further, That of the funds provided 
under this heading, $1,946,000,000 is available only for the redesigned 
space station, of which (1) not to exceed $160,000,000 shall be for 
termination costs connected only with Space Station Freedom contracts, 
(2) not to exceed $172,000,000 shall be for space station operations and 
utilization capability development, and (3) not to exceed $99,000,000 
shall be for supporting development: Provided further, That not more 
than $1,100,000,000 of the amounts made available under this heading for 
the redesigned space station may be obligated before March 31, 1994: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under this 
heading for the space station program may be used to pay, or enter into 
contracts with, the Republic of Russia: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, not to exceed $100,000,000 
shall be available for activities to support cooperative space ventures 
between the United States and the Republic of Russia outlined in the 
joint agreement of September 2, 1993, of which (1) not to exceed 
$50,000,000 shall be only for space transportation capability 
development activities and (2) not to exceed $50,000,000 shall be only 
for space science activities other than life sciences: Provided further, 
That the funds made available in the immediately preceding proviso shall 
not be available until December 15, 1993: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading may be used to pay or 
reimburse the Department of Defense for any expenses connected to any 
planetary exploration mission.


               space flight, control and data communications

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in support of 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, including operations, 
production, services, minor construction, maintenance, repair, 
rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal property; tracking 
and data relay satellite services as authorized by law; purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft; $4,878,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995.


                        construction of facilities

    For construction, repair, rehabilitation and modification of 
facilities, minor construction of new facilities and additions to 
existing facilities, and for facility planning and design not otherwise 
provided, for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and for 
the acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, 
$550,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated under this heading by this appropriations Act, when any 
activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations therefor, 
the amount available for such activity shall remain available until 
expended, except that this provision shall not apply to the amounts 
appropriated pursuant to the authorization for repair, rehabilitation 
and modification of facilities, minor construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, and facility planning and design: 
Provided further, That no amount appropriated pursuant to this or any 
other Act may be used for the lease or construction of a new contractor-
funded facility for exclusive use in support of a contract or contracts 
with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under which the 
Administration would be required to substantially amortize through 
payment or reimbursement such contractor investment, unless an 
appropriations Act specifies the lease or contract pursuant to which 
such facilities are to be constructed or leased or such facility is 
otherwise identified in such Act: Provided further, That the 
Administrator may authorize such facility lease or construction, if he 
determines, in consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, that 
deferral of such action until the enactment of the next appropriations 
Act would be inconsistent with the interest of the Nation in 
aeronautical and space activities: Provided further, That, pursuant to 
Public Law 102-486, an amount equal to not more than 50 percent of all 
utility energy efficiency and water conservation cash rebates received 
by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration may be made 
available for additional energy efficiency and water conservation 
measures, including facility surveys: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act to the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall be available for other than termination costs of 
the advanced solid rocket motor program.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the amounts 
appropriated in this Act for fiscal year 1994 shall be: $4,853,500,000 
for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ``Space flight, 
control and data communications'', $517,700,000 for the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration ``Construction of facilities'', 
$7,529,300,000 for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
``Research and development'', $1,480,853,000 for the Environmental 
Protection Agency ``Hazardous substance superfund'', $1,998,500,000 for 
the National Science Foundation ``Research and related activities'', and 
$110,000,000 for the National Science Foundation ``Academic research 
infrastructure''.

                     research and program management

    For necessary expenses for personnel and related costs, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-
5902) and travel expenses, $1,635,508,000: Provided, That contracts may 
be entered into under this appropriation for training, investigations, 
costs associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to 
be provided during the next fiscal year.


                        office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $15,391,000.

                  National Credit Union Administration


                        central liquidity facility

    During fiscal year 1994, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions as authorized by the National Credit Union Central Liquidity 
Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795) shall not exceed $600,000,000: Provided, 
That administrative expenses of the Central Liquidity Facility in fiscal 
year 1994 shall not exceed $945,000.

                       National Science Foundation


                      research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the purposes of the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and 
the Act to establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of 
aircraft and purchase of flight services for research support; 
acquisition of aircraft; $1,986,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1995: Provided, That receipts for scientific support 
services and materials furnished by the National Research Centers and 
other National Science Foundation supported research facilities may be 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That to the extent 
that the amount appropriated is less than the total amount authorized to 
be appropriated for included program activities, all amounts, including 
floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing Act for those program 
activities or their subactivities shall be reduced proportionally: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under this 
heading may be used to acquire through lease, purchase or other means an 
arctic research vessel.


                     academic research infrastructure

    For necessary expenses in carrying out an academic research 
facilities and instrumentation program pursuant to the purposes of the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $100,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995.


                   united states polar research programs

    For necessary expenses in carrying out arctic and antarctic research 
and operational support and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and other related activities for the 
United States Antarctic program and the Arctic research program pursuant 
to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1861-1875); maintenance and operation of aircraft and purchase of flight 
services for research and operations support; improvement of 
environmental practices and enhancements of safety; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of research ships 
and charter or lease of ships for research and operations support; hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception 
and representation expenses; $158,100,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That receipts for support services and materials 
provided for non-Federal activities may be credited to this 
appropriation: Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading may be used to enter into a new charter or lease for 
the use of a research vessel refurbished or modernized in a foreign 
shipyard or of a newly-constructed research vessel built in a foreign 
shipyard.


           united states antarctic logistical support activities

    For necessary expenses in reimbursing Federal agencies for 
logistical and other related activities for the United States Antarctic 
program pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); acquisition, maintenance, and operation 
of aircraft for research and operations support; improvement of 
environmental practices and enhancements of safety; $62,600,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That receipts for support 
services and materials provided for non-Federal activities may be 
credited to this appropriation.


                       education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
purposes of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1861-1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $569,600,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided, That to the extent 
that the amount of this appropriation is less than the total amount 
authorized to be appropriated for included program activities, all 
amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing Act 
for those program activities or their subactivities shall be reduced 
proportionally.


                      Critical Technologies Institute

    For necessary expenses for support of the Critical Technologies 
Institute as authorized by section 822 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6686), 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary salaries and expenses in carrying out the purposes of 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902); rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia; reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services; $118,300,000: Provided, That contracts may be 
entered into under salaries and expenses in fiscal year 1994 for 
maintenance and operation of facilities, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $3,997,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995.


            National Science Foundation Headquarters Relocation

    For necessary support of the relocation of the National Science 
Foundation, $5,200,000: Provided, That these funds shall be used to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for services and related 
acquisitions in support of relocating the National Science Foundation.

                       National Service Initiative


              corporation for national and community service

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service in carrying out the programs, activities, and 
initiatives under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as 
amended (Public Law 103-82) (hereinafter referred to as ``the Act''), 
$370,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995, except as 
provided hereafter: Provided, That not more than $25,000,000 is 
available for administrative expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4) 
of the Act, of which not more than $11,000,000 shall be for 
administrative expenses for State commissions pursuant to section 126(a) 
of subtitle C of title I of the Act: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $10,000,000 made available under this heading shall be for 
subtitle E of title I of the Act: Provided further, That not more than 
$94,500,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation, shall 
be transferred to the National Service Trust Fund for educational awards 
as authorized under subtitle D of title I of the Act: Provided further, 
That not more than $9,450,000 of the $94,500,000 made available for the 
National Service Trust Fund shall be for educational awards authorized 
under section 129(b) of subtitle C of title I of the Act: Provided 
further, That not more than $5,000,000 is available for the Points of 
Light Foundation as authorized under title III of the Act: Provided 
further, That not more than $15,000,000 shall be for activities under 
subtitle H of title I of the Act.

                  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation


           payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $32,000,000.

                        Selective Service System


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 4101-4118) for civilian employees; and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; $25,000,000: 
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he 
deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into the 
Armed Forces of the United States.

                                TITLE IV

                              CORPORATIONS

    Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development which are subject to the Government Corporation Control Act, 
as amended, are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accord with law, and to make such contracts 
and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by 
section 104 of the Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs 
set forth in the budget for 1994 for such corporation or agency except 
as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of these 
corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage purchase 
commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this Act 
(unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance provided 
for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this proviso 
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty operations of 
these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases are necessary 
to protect the financial interest of the United States Government.

                  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation


                           fslic resolution fund

    For payment of expenditures, in fiscal year 1994, of the FSLIC 
Resolution Fund, for which other funds available to the FSLIC Resolution 
Fund as authorized by Public Law 101-73 are insufficient, 
$1,171,000,000.


                      fdic affordable housing program

    For the affordable housing program of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation under section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
U.S.C. 1831q), $7,000,000 to pay for any losses resulting from the sale 
of properties under the program, and for all administrative and holding 
costs associated with operating the program.
    Notwithstanding any provisions of section 40 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act or any other provision of law, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation shall be deemed in compliance with such section 
if, in its sole discretion, the Corporation at any time modifies, amends 
or waives any provisions of such section in order to maximize the 
efficient use of the available appropriated funds. The Corporation shall 
not be subject to suit for its failure to comply with the requirements 
of this provision or section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

                      Resolution Trust Corporation


                        office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $34,314,000.

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Section 501. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this 
Act are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has 
been placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not 
exceed the amounts set forth therefor in the budget estimates submitted 
for the appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
travel performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal 
boards of the Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in 
connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with 
major disasters or emergencies declared or determined by the President 
under the provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of 
Inspector General in connection with audits and investigations; or to 
payments to interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the 
budget schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, 
II, and III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially 
submitted for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may 
correspondingly exceed the amounts therefor set forth in the estimates 
in the same proportion.
    Sec. 502. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 503. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a contract 
or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for services and 
facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National 
Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal 
Financing Bank, Resolution Trust Corporation, Federal Reserve banks or 
any member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended 
(12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).
    Sec. 504. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 505. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
        (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee of the 
    United States unless--
            (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is part of, a 
        voucher or abstract which describes the payee or payees and the 
        items or services for which such expenditure is being made, or
            (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such certification, 
        and without such a voucher or abstract, is specifically 
        authorized by law; and
        (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the General 
    Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from such audit.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between his domicile and his place 
of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee authorized 
such transportation under title 31, United States Code, section 1344.
    Sec. 507. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share in 
the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest of 
the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 508. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used, 
directly or through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for 
payment of the salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal 
Government or a grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate 
paid for Level IV of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically 
authorized by law.
    Sec. 509. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act for 
personnel compensation and benefits shall be available for other object 
classifications set forth in the budget estimates submitted for the 
appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not apply to any part 
of the appropriations contained in this Act for Offices of Inspector 
General personnel compensation and benefits.
    Sec. 510. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pay the 
expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in 
regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein affects the 
authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 
7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 et seq.).
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise provided under existing law or under 
an existing Executive order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts which 
are (1) a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of all 
contracts entered into within twenty-four months prior to the date on 
which the list is made available to the public and of all contracts on 
which performance has not been completed by such date. The list required 
by the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall include a 
narrative description of the work to be performed under each such 
contract.
    Sec. 512. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) for a contract for 
services unless such executive agency (1) has awarded and entered into 
such contract in full compliance with such Act and the regulations 
promulgated thereunder, and (2) requires any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, analyses and 
manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is substantially 
derived from or substantially includes any report prepared pursuant to 
such contract, to contain information concerning (A) the contract 
pursuant to which the report was prepared, and (B) the contractor who 
prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 513. Except as otherwise provided in section 506, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles per 
gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 515. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000, unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on which 
the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 517. (a) The Resolution Trust Corporation (``Corporation'') 
shall report to the Congress at least once a month on the status of the 
review required by section 21A(b)(11)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Act and the actions taken with respect to the agreements described in 
such section. The report shall describe, for each such agreement, the 
review that has been conducted and the action that has been taken, if 
any, to rescind or to restructure, modify, or renegotiate the agreement. 
In describing the action taken, the Corporation is not required to 
provide detailed information regarding an ongoing investigation or 
negotiation. The Corporation shall exercise any and all legal rights to 
restructure, modify, renegotiate or rescind such agreement, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, where the savings would be 
realized.
    (b) To expend any appropriated funds for the purpose of 
restructuring, modifying, or renegotiating the agreements described in 
subsection (a), the Corporation shall certify to the Congress, for each 
such agreement, the following:
        (1) the Corporation has completed its review of the agreement, 
    as required by section 21A(b)(11)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
    Act;
        (2)(A) at the time of certification, in the opinion of the 
    Corporation and based upon the information available to it, there is 
    insufficient evidence or other indication of fraud, 
    misrepresentation, failure to disclose a material fact, failure to 
    perform under the terms of the agreement, improprieties in the 
    bidding process, failure to comply with any law, rule or regulation 
    regarding the validity of the agreement, or any other legal basis 
    sufficient for the rescission of the agreement; or
        (B) at the time of certification, the Corporation finds that 
    there may be sufficient evidence to provide a legal basis for the 
    rescission of the assistance agreement, but the Corporation 
    determines that it may be in the best interest of the Government to 
    restructure, modify or renegotiate the assistance agreement; and
        (3) the Corporation has or will promptly exercise any and all 
    legal rights to modify, renegotiate, or restructure the agreement 
    where savings would be realized by such actions.
    Sec. 518. Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be expended in violation of sections 2 through 
4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; popularly known as the 
``Buy American Act''), which are applicable to those funds.
    This Act may be cited as the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1994.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.