[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5155 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5155

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the transfer of naval vessels to certain foreign 
countries.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER NAVAL VESSELS TO CERTAIN FOREIGN 
COUNTRIES.
    (a) Argentina.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Argentina the ``NEWPORT'' class tank landing ship 
SCHENECTADY (LST 1185). Such transfer shall be on a lease basis under 
chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2796 and 
following).
    (b) Chile.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Government of Chile the ``NEWPORT'' class tank landing ships 
NEWPORT (LST 1179) and SAN BERNARDINO (LST 1189). Such transfers shall 
be on a lease basis under chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2796 and following).
    (c) Malaysia.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Malaysia the ``NEWPORT'' class tank landing ship 
SPARTANBURG COUNTY (LST 1197). Such transfer shall be on a sales basis 
under section 21 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761; 
relating to the foreign military sales program).
    (d) Spain.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Government of Spain the ``NEWPORT'' class tank landing ship HARLAN 
COUNTY (LST 1196). Such transfer shall be on a lease basis under 
chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2796 and 
following).
    (e) Taiwan.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United 
States (which is the Taiwan instrumentality designated pursuant to 
section 10(a) of the Taiwan Relations Act) the ``NEWPORT'' class tank 
landing ships MANITOWOC (LST 1180) and SUMTER (LST 1181). Such 
transfers shall be on a lease basis under chapter 6 of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2796 and following).
    (f) Venezuela.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Venezuela the ``NEWPORT'' class tank landing ships 
PEORIA (LST 1183) and BARBOUR COUNTY (LST 1195). Such transfers shall 
be on a lease basis under chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2796 and following).

SEC. 2. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS.

    The following provisions do not apply with respect to the transfers 
authorized by this Act:
        (1) In the case of a sale under section 21 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 525 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
    Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public 
    Law 103-87) and any similar, successor provision.
        (2) In the case of a lease under section 61 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 62 of that Act (except that section 62 of that 
    Act shall apply to any renewal of the lease).

SEC. 3. COSTS OF TRANSFERS.

    Any expense of the United States in connection with a transfer 
authorized by this Act shall be charged to the recipient.

SEC. 4. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority granted by section 1 of this Act shall expire at the 
end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, except that leases entered into during that period under section 1 
may be renewed.
SEC. 5. REPAIR AND REFURBISHMENT OF VESSELS IN THE UNITED STATES.
    It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of the Navy 
should request that each country to which a naval vessel is transferred 
under this Act have such repair or refurbishment of the vessel as is 
needed, before the vessel joins the naval forces of that country, 
performed at shipyards located in the United States, including United 
States Navy shipyards.

SEC. 6. CONDITION FOR TRANSFER.

    No vessel may be transferred under this Act until the Secretary of 
Defense certifies in writing to Congress that, after the transfer--
        (1) the amphibious lift capacity remaining available in the 
    Navy is sufficient in all lift categories to transport 2\1/2\ 
    Marine Corps expeditionary brigades simultaneously; and
        (2) the amphibious lift capacity planned to be available in the 
    Navy under the future-years defense program will be sufficient in 
    all lift categories, throughout the period covered by the future-
    years defense program, to transport 2\1/2\ Marine Corps 
    expeditionary brigades simultaneously.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.