[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2493 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2493
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending Septem-Pber 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,308,000: Provided, That not to exceed $8,000 of this amount 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may transfer salaries and expenses funds in 
this Act sufficient to finance a total of not to exceed 35 staff years 
between agencies of the Department of Agriculture to meet workload 
requirements.

                     Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Deputy Secretary of 
Agriculture, including not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $550,000: Provided, That not to exceed $3,000 of this 
amount shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined by the Deputy 
Secretary.

                  Office of Budget and Program Analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,881,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration to carry out the programs funded in this Act, $803,000.

                         rental payments (usda)


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313 for programs and activities of the Department of Agriculture 
which are included in this Act, $135,503,000, of which $30,804,000 shall 
be retained by the Department of Agriculture for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings and for non-recurring 
repairs as determined by the Department of Agriculture, and an 
additional $19,700,000 shall be retained by the Department of 
Agriculture for renovation and repair of facilities at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center: Provided, That in the event an agency 
within the Department of Agriculture should require modification of 
space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer a share of that 
agency's appropriation made available by this Act to this appropriation, 
or may transfer a share of this appropriation to that agency's 
appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 per centum of the 
funds made available for space rental and related costs to or from this 
account.

                       advisory committees (usda)

    For necessary expenses for activities of advisory committees of the 
Department of Agriculture which are included in this Act, $940,000: 
Provided, That no other funds appropriated to the Department of 
Agriculture in this Act shall be available to the Department of 
Agriculture for support of activities of advisory committees.


                        hazardous waste management

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107g of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9607g, 
and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as 
amended, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,802,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to 
the Department of Agriculture for hazardous waste management may be 
transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in meeting all 
requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal 
lands.

                       Departmental Administration


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For Personnel, Finance and Management, Operations, Information 
Resources Management, Advocacy and Enterprise, Administrative Law Judges 
and Judicial Officer, and Emergency Programs, $26,301,000, for 
Departmental Administration to provide for necessary expenses for 
management support services to offices of the Department of Agriculture 
and for general administration and emergency preparedness of the 
Department of Agriculture, repairs and alterations, and other 
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and 
necessary for the practical and efficient work of the Department of 
Agriculture, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall be reimbursed from applicable appropriations in 
this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding of hearings as 
required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded in this Act, 
$1,325,000.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, and for the 
dissemination of agricultural information and the coordination of 
information, work and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, 
$8,570,000, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
and not to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins: 
Provided, That hereafter, none of the funds available to the Department 
of Agriculture may be used to produce part 2 of the annual report of the 
Secretary (known as the Yearbook of Agriculture).


                         intergovernmental affairs

    For necessary expenses for programs involving intergovernmental 
affairs and liaison within the executive branch, $475,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, $65,530,000, including such sums as may be 
necessary for contracting and other arrangements with public agencies 
and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(8) of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, and including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed 
$95,000 for certain confidential operational expenses including the 
payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of 
Public Law 97-98.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$25,992,000.

             Office of the Assistant Secretary for Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Economics to carry out the programs funded in this Act, $586,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and service relating to agricultural 
production, marketing, and distribution, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
including economics of marketing; analyses relating to farm prices, 
income and population, and demand for farm products, use of resources in 
agriculture, adjustments, costs and returns in farming, and farm 
finance; research relating to the economic and marketing aspects of 
farmer cooperatives; and for analysis of supply and demand for farm 
products in foreign countries and their effect on prospects for United 
States exports, progress in economic development and its relation to 
sales of farm products, assembly and analysis of agricultural trade 
statistics and analysis of international financial and monetary programs 
and policies as they affect the competitive position of United States 
farm products, $55,219,000; of which $500,000 shall be available for 
investigation, determination, and finding as to the effect upon the 
production of food and upon the agricultural economy of any proposed 
action affecting such subject matter pending before the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency for presentation, in the public 
interest, before said Administrator, other agencies or before the 
courts: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available to continue 
to gather statistics and conduct a special study on the price spread 
between the farmer and the consumer: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225): 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
analysis of statistics and related facts on foreign production and full 
and complete information on methods used by other countries to move farm 
commodities in world trade on a competitive basis.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
and marketing surveys, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act 
of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, $81,764,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109.

                    World Agricultural Outlook Board

    For necessary expenses of the World Agricultural Outlook Board to 
coordinate and review all commodity and aggregate agricultural and food 
data used to develop outlook and situation material within the 
Department of Agriculture, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing 
Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), $2,566,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science and Education

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Science and Education to administer the laws enacted by 
the Congress for the Agricultural Research Service, Cooperative State 
Research Service, Extension Service, and National Agricultural Library, 
$566,000.

         alternative agricultural research and commercialization

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$9,000,000 is appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Revolving Fund.

                      Agricultural Research Service


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for), home economics or nutrition and consumer use, and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, $692,469,000: Provided, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for temporary employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That hereafter, appropriations 
available to the Department of Agriculture can be used to provide 
financial assistance to the organizers of national and international 
conferences, if such conferences are in support of agency programs: 
Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for 
the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to 
exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available to conduct marketing research: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 
U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings 
and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for 
ten buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$500,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement 
value of the building or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act shall 
not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities at 
Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That the foregoing limitations 
shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act 
of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to the purchase of land or the construction 
of facilities as may be necessary for the relocation of the United 
States Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory at Fresno to Parlier, 
California, and the relocation of the laboratories at Behoust, France 
and Rome, Italy to Montpelier, France, including the sale or exchange at 
fair market value of existing land and facilities at Fresno, California 
and Behoust, France; and the Agricultural Research Service may lease 
such existing land and facilities from the purchasers until completion 
of the replacement facilities and the foregoing limitations shall not 
apply to the purchase of land at Weslaco, Texas: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $190,000 of this appropriation may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Science and Education for the scientific review of international 
issues involving agricultural chemicals and food additives: Provided 
further, That funds may be received from any State, other political 
subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing 
or operating any research facility or research project of the 
Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.
    Special fund: To provide for additional labor, subprofessional, and 
junior scientific help to be employed under contracts and cooperative 
agreements to strengthen the work at Federal research installations in 
the field, $2,500,000.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $32,743,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That 
hereafter, facilities to house bonsai collections at the National 
Arboretum may be constructed with funds accepted under the provisions of 
Public Law 94-129 (20 U.S.C. 195) and the limitation on construction 
contained in the Act of August 24, 1912 (40 U.S.C. 68) shall not apply 
to the construction of such facilities: Provided further, That funds may 
be received from any State, other political subdivision, organization, 
or individual for the purpose of establishing any research facility of 
the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

                   Cooperative State Research Service

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $171,304,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act approved March 2, 1887, as amended, including administration by the 
United States Department of Agriculture, penalty mail costs of 
agricultural experiment stations under section 6 of the Hatch Act of 
1887, as amended, and payments under section 1361(c) of the Act of 
October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301n.); $20,809,000 for grants for cooperative 
forestry research under the Act approved October 10, 1962 (16 U.S.C. 
582a-582-a7), as Pamended, including administrative expenses, and 
payments under section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 
301n.); $28,157,000 for payments to the 1890 land-grant colleges, 
including Tuskegee University, for research under section 1445 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222), as amended, including administration by the United 
States Department of Agriculture, and penalty mail costs of the 1890 
land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University; $72,917,000 for 
contracts and grants for agricultural research under the Act of August 
4, 1965, as amended (7 U.S.C. 450i); $112,150,000 for competitive 
research grants under section 2(b) of the Act of August 4, 1965, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), including administrative expenses; 
$5,551,000 for the support of animal health and disease programs 
authorized by section 1433 of Public Law 95-113, including 
administrative expenses; $1,818,000 for supplemental and alternative 
crops and products as authorized by the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $500,000 
for grants for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural Materials 
Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture 
Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until 
expended; $475,000 for rangeland research grants as authorized by 
subtitle M of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended; $3,500,000 for higher education 
graduate fellowships grants under section 1417(b)(6) of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), including administrative expenses; 
$1,500,000 for higher education challenge grants under section 
1417(b)(1) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)), including 
administrative expenses; $1,000,000 for a higher education minority 
scholar program under section 1417(b)(5) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 
U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), including administrative expenses; $4,000,000 for 
grants as authorized by section 1475 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 and other Acts; 
$7,400,000 for sustainable agriculture research and education, as 
authorized by section 1621 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5811), 
including administrative expenses; and $22,655,000 for necessary 
expenses of Cooperative State Research Service activities, including 
coordination and program leadership for higher education work of the 
Department, administration of payments to State agricultural experiment 
stations, funds for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which 
$10,550,000 shall be for a program of capacity building grants to 
colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 
U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee University, of which not to 
exceed $100,000 shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, 
$453,736,000: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act shall be used to support the price of wool or 
mohair by means of loans, purchases, payments, or other operations, 
except for marketing year 1993.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities and 
for grants to States and other eligible recipients for such purposes, as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research, extension, and 
teaching programs of the Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise 
provided, $56,874,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b).

                            Extension Service

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative agricultural extension work under the Smith-
Lever Act, as amended, to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of 
said Act, and under section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement 
and employees' compensation costs for extension agents and for costs of 
penalty mail for cooperative extension agents and State extension 
directors, $272,582,000; payments for the nutrition and family education 
program for low-income areas under section 3(d) of the Act, $61,431,000; 
payments for the pest management program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$8,459,000; payments for the farm safety and rural health programs under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $2,988,000; payments for the pesticide impact 
assessment program under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,363,000; payments 
to upgrade 1890 land-grant college research and extension facilities as 
authorized by section 1447 of Public Law 95-113, as amended (7 U.S.C. 
3222b), $7,901,000, to remain available until expended; payments for the 
rural development centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $950,000; 
payments for a groundwater quality program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $11,234,000; payments for the Agricultural Telecommunications 
Program, as authorized by Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), 
$1,221,000; payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 3(d) of 
the Act, $10,000,000; payments for a Nutrition Education Initiative 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $4,265,000; payments for a food safety 
program under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,975,000; payments for carrying 
out the provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, 
$3,341,000; payments for Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) of 
the Act, $1,750,000; payments to establish and operate centers of rural 
technology development as authorized by section 2347 of Public Law 101-
624 (7 U.S.C. 1932), $1,500,000; payments for sustainable agriculture 
programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,963,000; payments for rural 
health and safety education as authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 
101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 2662), $2,000,000; and payments for 
extension work by the colleges receiving the benefits of the second 
Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-326, 328) and Tuskegee University, 
$25,472,000; in all, $423,395,000: Provided, That funds hereby 
appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 1953, and 
section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, as amended, shall not be paid 
to any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin 
Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa prior to 
availability of an equal sum from non-Federal sources for expenditure 
during the current fiscal year.
    Federal administration and coordination: For administration of the 
Smith-Lever Act, as amended, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
341-349), as amended, and section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 
(7 U.S.C. 301n.), and to coordinate and provide program leadership for 
the extension work of the Department and the several States and insular 
possessions, $11,187,000.

                      National Agricultural Library

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Library, 
$18,155,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $35,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $900,000 shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements: Provided further, 
That $462,000 shall be available for a grant pursuant to section 1472 of 
the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3818), in addition to other funds available in this 
appropriation for grants under this section.

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Federal Grain 
Inspection Service, Agricultural Marketing Service, and Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, $687,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), 
necessary to prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal 
diseases; to carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory 
activities; to discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture 
under the Act of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and 
to protect the environment, as authorized by law, $439,564,000, of which 
$91,460,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account, and of which 
$4,938,000 shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, 
plant diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
birds to the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, 
That if the demand for Agricultural Quarantine Inspection (AQI) user fee 
financed services is greater than expected and/or other uncontrollable 
events occur, the Agency may exceed the AQI User Fee limitation by up to 
10 per centum, provided such funds are available in the Agricultural 
Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account, and with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees: Provided further, That no funds shall be used 
to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication program for the 
current fiscal year that does not require minimum matching by the States 
of at least 40 per centum: Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall be available for field employment pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for the 
operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
four, of which two shall be for replacement only: Provided further, 
That, in addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the 
agricultural production industry of this country, the Secretary may 
transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or 
corporations of the Department such sums as he may deem necessary, to be 
available only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of 
contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
plants, and for expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 
1947, as amended, and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, as 
amended, and any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such 
emergency purposes in the next preceding fiscal year shall be merged 
with such transferred amounts: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
repair and alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless 
otherwise provided the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement 
value of the building.


                         buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
2250, and acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, 
$10,145,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, and the Poultry Products 
Inspection Act, as amended, $516,738,000, and in addition, $1,000,000 
may be credited to this account from fees collected for the cost of 
laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 of Public Law 
102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per 
centum of the current replacement value of the building.

                    Federal Grain Inspection Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, as amended, and the standardization 
activities related to grain under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 
1946, as amended, including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $20,000 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,532,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per 
centum of the current replacement value of the building: Provided 
further, That hereafter, none of the funds available to the Federal 
Grain Inspection Service may be used to pay the salaries of any person 
or persons who require, or who authorize payments from fee-supported 
funds to any person or persons who require nonexport, nonterminal 
interior elevators to maintain records not involving official inspection 
or official weighing in the United States under Public Law 94-582 other 
than those necessary to fulfill the purposes of such Act.


                     inspection and weighing services

          limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $42,784,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for Inspection and Weighing Services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 per centum with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service


                            marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, 
agricultural cooperatives, and regulatory programs, as authorized by 
law, and for administration and coordination of payments to States; 
including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $90,000 for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $61,614,000; including $2,346,000 for the Wholesale 
Market Development Program for the design and development of wholesale 
and farmer market facilities for the major metropolitan areas of the 
country: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement 
value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).


                   limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $55,953,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 per centum with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.


     funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                      (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $10,309,000 for formulation and 
administration of Marketing Agreements and Orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended, and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961.
    In fiscal years 1994 and 1995, section 32 funds shall be used to 
promote sunflower and cottonseed oil exports to the full extent 
authorized by section 1541 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 1464 note), 
and such funds shall be used to facilitate additional sales of such oils 
in world markets.


                    payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,735,000.

                  Packers and Stockyards Administration

    For necessary expenses for administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, as authorized by law, and for certifying procedures used 
to protect purchasers of farm products, including field employment 
pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $5,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$12,123,000.

                        Farm Income Stabilization

 Office of the Under Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity 
                                Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity Programs to administer 
the laws enacted by Congress for the Agricultural Stabilization and 
Conservation Service, Foreign Agricultural Service, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $560,000.

           Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                           salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Agricultural 
Stabilization and Conservation Service, including expenses to formulate 
and carry out programs authorized by title III of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1301-1393); the 
Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.); sections 7 
to 15, 16(a), 16(f), and 17 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic 
Allotment Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590g-590o, 590p(a), 590p(f), and 
590q); sections 1001 to 1004, 1006 to 1008, and 1010 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1970, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1501 to 1504, 1506 to 1508, and 
1510); the Water Bank Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311); the 
Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101); sections 
202(c) and 205 of title II of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control 
Act of 1974, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1592(c), 1595); sections 401, 402, 
and 404 to 406 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 to 
2205); the United States Warehouse Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 241-273); 
title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811 
et seq.); and laws pertaining to the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
$732,467,000; of which $730,842,000 is hereby appropriated, and 
$1,036,000 is transferred from the Public Law 480 Program Account in 
this Act and $589,000 is transferred from the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Program Account in this Act: Provided, That other funds made 
available to the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service for 
authorized activities may be advanced to and merged with this account: 
Provided further, That these funds shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That no part of the 
funds made available under this Act shall be used (1) to influence the 
vote in any referendum; (2) to influence agricultural legislation, 
except as permitted in 18 U.S.C. 1913; or (3) for salaries or other 
expenses of members of county and community committees established 
pursuant to section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act, as amended, for engaging in any activities other than advisory and 
supervisory duties and delegated program functions prescribed in 
administrative regulations.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided:

                   Federal Crop Insurance Corporation


                   administrative and operating expenses

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1516), $290,116,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i): Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may be 
used to offer a Federal crop insurance policy in counties on crops where 
a loss ratio, that has already been recalculated pursuant to law to 
reflect the premium rates issued by the Corporation for the 1993 crop 
year, is in excess of 1.10 more than 70 percent of the years that a 
policy has been offered since 1980: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act may be used to pay operating and administrative costs 
that exceed 31 per centum of premium to insurers of policies on which 
the Corporation provides reinsurance, except to reimburse said insurers 
for excess loss adjustment expenses as provided for in the Standard 
Reinsurance Agreement issued by the Corporation: Provided further, That 
the second proviso shall not apply in any county affected if the 
Corporation has implemented a nonstandard classification system in such 
county for those individual farms that have experienced excessive losses 
since 1980 under which the premium rates, notwithstanding the provision 
of section 508(d) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, are increased over 
comparable rates effective for the 1993 crop, or the insured yields are 
decreased from comparable yields for the 1993 crop, or a combination of 
both, by an amount or amounts sufficient to ensure that an estimated 
loss ratio will not exceed 1.1 for the crop produced on such farms 
during the 1994 crop year.


                  federal crop insurance corporation fund

    For payments as authorized by section 508(b) of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, as amended, $235,794,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); of which $47,072,000 is to reimburse the 
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund for agents' commissions and loss 
adjustment obligations incurred during prior years, but not previously 
reimbursed, as authorized by section 516(a) of the Act, as amended.

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund


                   reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1994, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed (estimated to be $20,896,614,000 in the 
President's fiscal year 1994 Budget Request (H. Doc. 103-3)), but not to 
exceed $18,000,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 
1961, as amended (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).


         operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1994, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $4,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 
42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, That expenses shall be for operations and 
maintenance costs only and that other hazardous waste management costs 
shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation 
in this Act.

                     TITLE II--CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Soil Conservation 
Service, $575,000.

                        Soil Conservation Service


                          conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100; purchase and erection or alteration or 
improvement of permanent and temporary buildings; and operation and 
maintenance of aircraft, $591,049,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); of which not less than $5,820,000 is for snow 
survey and water forecasting and not less than $8,214,000 is for 
operation and establishment of the plant materials centers: Provided, 
That except for $2,399,000 for improvements of the plant materials 
centers, the cost of any permanent building purchased, erected, or as 
improved, exclusive of the cost of constructing a water supply or 
sanitary system and connecting the same to any such building and with 
the exception of buildings acquired in conjunction with land being 
purchased for other purposes, shall not exceed $10,000, except for one 
building to be constructed at a cost not to exceed $100,000 and eight 
buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $50,000 
per building and except that alterations or improvements to other 
existing permanent buildings costing $5,000 or more may be made in any 
fiscal year in an amount not to exceed $2,000 per building: Provided 
further, That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 
7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That no part of this appropriation may 
be expended for soil and water conservation operations under the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) in demonstration projects: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That qualified local 
engineers may be temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the 
technical planning work of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

                 river basin surveys and investigations

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, in accordance with 
section 6 of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved 
August 4, 1954, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1006-1009), $13,482,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $60,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.


                            watershed planning

    For necessary expenses for small watershed investigations and 
planning, in accordance with the Watershed Protection and Flood 
Prevention Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1001-1008), $10,921,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.


                 watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing works 
and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1005, 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 
U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $241,965,000 to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of which $40,786,000 shall be available 
for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 U.S.C. 1006a), as amended and supplemented: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $28,631,000 shall be available 
for emergency measures as provided by sections 403-405 of the 
Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2203-2205), and not to exceed 
$200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That $4,000,000 in loans may be insured, or made to be sold and 
insured, under the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund of the Farmers 
Home Administration (7 U.S.C. 1931): Provided further, That not to 
exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is available to carry out the 
purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), as 
amended, including cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to 
relocate endangered or threatened species to other suitable habitats as 
may be necessary to expedite project construction.


                   resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the 
provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the 
provisions of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-
3461), $32,945,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): 
Provided, That $600,000 in loans may be insured, or made to be sold and 
insured, under the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund of the Farmers 
Home Administration (7 U.S.C. 1931): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.


                     great plains conservation program

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect a program of 
conservation in the Great Plains area, pursuant to section 16(b) of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as added by the Act of 
August 7, 1956, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)), $25,658,000, to remain 
available until expended (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)(7)).

           Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                     agricultural conservation program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the program authorized 
in sections 7 to 15, 16(a), 16(f), and 17 of the Soil Conservation and 
Domestic Allotment Act approved February 29, 1936, as Pamended and 
supplemented (16 U.S.C. 590g-590o, 590p(a), 590p(f), and 590q), and 
sections 1001-1004, 1006-1008, and 1010 of the Agricultural Act of 1970, 
as added by the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1501-1504, 1506-1508, and 1510), and including not to exceed 
$15,000 for the preparation and display of exhibits, including such 
displays at State, interstate, and international fairs within the United 
States, $194,650,000, to remain available until expended (16 U.S.C. 
590o), for agreements, excluding administration but including technical 
assistance and related expenses (16 U.S.C. 590o), except that no 
participant in the Agricultural Conservation Program shall receive more 
than $3,500 per year, except where the participants from two or more 
farms or ranches join to carry out approved practices designed to 
conserve or improve the agricultural resources of the community, or 
where a participant has a long-term agreement, in which case the total 
payment shall not exceed the annual payment limitation multiplied by the 
number of years of the agreement: Provided, That no portion of the funds 
for the current year's program may be utilized to provide financial or 
technical assistance for drainage on wetlands now designated as Wetlands 
Types 3 (III) through 20 (XX) in United States Department of the 
Interior, Fish and Wildlife Circular 39, Wetlands of the United States, 
1956: Provided further, That such amounts shall be available for the 
purchase of seeds, fertilizers, lime, trees, or any other conservation 
materials, or any soil-terracing services, and making grants thereof to 
agricultural producers to aid them in carrying out approved farming 
practices as authorized by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act, as amended, as determined and recommended by the county committees, 
approved by the State committees and the Secretary, under programs 
provided for herein: Provided further, That such assistance will not be 
used for carrying out measures and practices that are primarily 
production-oriented or that have little or no conservation or pollution 
abatement benefits: Provided further, That not to exceed 5 per centum of 
the allocation for the current year's program for any county may, on the 
recommendation of such county committee and approval of the State 
committee, be withheld and allotted to the Soil Conservation Service for 
services of its technicians in formulating and carrying out the 
Agricultural Conservation Program in the participating counties, and 
shall not be utilized by the Soil Conservation Service for any purpose 
other than technical and other assistance in such counties, and in 
addition, on the recommendation of such county committee and approval of 
the State committee, not to exceed 1 per centum may be made available to 
any other Federal, State, or local public agency for the same purpose 
and under the same conditions: Provided further, That for the current 
year's program $2,500,000 shall be available for technical assistance in 
formulating and carrying out rural environmental practices: Provided 
further, That no part of any funds available to the Department, or any 
bureau, office, corporation, or other agency constituting a part of such 
Department, shall be used in the current fiscal year for the payment of 
salary or travel expenses of any person who has been convicted of 
violating the Act entitled ``An Act to prevent pernicious political 
activities'' approved August 2, 1939, as amended, or who has been found 
in accordance with the provisions of title 18 U.S.C. 1913 to have 
violated or attempted to violate such section which prohibits the use of 
Federal appropriations for the payment of personal services or other 
expenses designed to influence in any manner a Member of Congress to 
favor or oppose any legislation or appropriation by Congress except upon 
request of any Member or through the proper official channels: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $18,500,000 of the amount appropriated shall 
be used for water quality payments and practices in the same manner as 
permitted under the program for water quality authorized in chapter 2 of 
subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 
U.S.C. 3838 et seq.).


                        forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized in the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $12,820,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.


                            water bank program

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the provisions of the 
Water Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311), $8,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.


               colorado river basin salinity control program

    For necessary expenses for carrying out a voluntary cooperative 
salinity control program pursuant to section 202(c) of title II of the 
Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
1592(c)), to be used to reduce salinity in the Colorado River and to 
enhance the supply and quality of water available for use in the United 
States and the Republic of Mexico, $13,783,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), to be used for investigations and 
surveys, for technical assistance in developing conservation practices 
and in the preparation of salinity control plans, for the establishment 
of on-farm irrigation management systems, including related lateral 
improvement measures, for making cost-share payments to agricultural 
landowners and operators, Indian tribes, irrigation districts and 
associations, local governmental and nongovernmental entities, and other 
landowners to aid them in carrying out approved conservation practices 
as determined and recommended by the county ASC committees, approved by 
the State ASC committees and the Secretary, and for associated costs of 
program planning, information and education, and program monitoring and 
evaluation: Provided, That the Soil Conservation Service shall provide 
technical assistance and the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation 
Service shall provide administrative services for the program, including 
but not limited to, the negotiation and administration of agreements and 
the disbursement of payments: Provided further, That such program shall 
be coordinated with the regular Agricultural Conservation Program and 
with research programs of other agencies.

                      conservation reserve program


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the conservation reserve program 
pursuant to the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3845), 
$1,743,274,000, to remain available until expended, to be used for 
Commodity Credit Corporation expenditures for cost-share assistance for 
the establishment of conservation practices provided for in approved 
conservation reserve program contracts, for annual rental payments 
provided in such contracts, and for technical assistance.


                         wetlands reserve program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Wetlands Reserve Program 
pursuant to subchapter C of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837), $66,675,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for the purpose of carrying out the Wetlands Reserve 
Program.

         TITLE III--FARMERS HOME AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development to administer 
programs under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Farmers Home 
Administration, Rural Electrification Administration, Federal Crop 
Insurance Corporation, and rural development activities of the 
Department of Agriculture, $580,000.

                    Rural Development Administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except section 722, 
the Secretary may transfer funds from the Farmers Home Administration in 
this Act to fund the Rural Development Administration, as authorized by 
law.

    Rural Development Administration and Farmers Home Administration

              rural housing insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, to be available from funds in the Rural Housing Insurance Fund, 
as follows: $2,550,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $750,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $35,000,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $16,300,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$540,107,000 for section 515 rental housing; $600,000 for site loans; 
and $133,000,000 for credit sales of acquired property: Provided, That 
up to $50,664,000 of these funds shall be made available for section 
502(g), Deferral Mortgage Demonstration.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: low-income housing section 502 loans, 
$366,360,000, of which $12,225,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $13,671,000; section 514 farm 
labor housing, $8,394,000; section 515 rental housing, $309,967,000; and 
credit sales of acquired property, $20,242,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $396,161,000.

                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 
$446,694,000; and in addition such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the Rental Assistance Program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount not 
more than $5,840,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or payments 
for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the 
Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to nonprofit 
organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other than 
purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to section 
502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements entered into 
or renewed during fiscal year 1994 shall be funded for a five-year 
period, although the life of any such agreement may be extended to fully 
utilize amounts obligated.


                       rural housing voucher program

    For necessary expenses to operate a rural housing voucher program as 
authorized by section 542 of title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, $25,000,000, to be administered by the Secretary of 
Agriculture.

         self-help housing land development fund program account

    For direct loans pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(B) of the Housing Act 
of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $622,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans, 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$23,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $14,000.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $634,624,000, of which $556,543,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,750,000,000, of which 
$1,800,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$250,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; $4,312,000 for 
water development, use, and conservation loans, of which $1,415,000 
shall be for guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as 
authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; for emergency insured loans, 
$100,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural disasters; and for 
credit sales of acquired property, $123,783,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $34,080,000, of which 
$20,870,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$119,985,000, of which $9,360,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans and $29,425,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; $494,000 
for water development, use, and conservation loans, of which $31,000 
shall be for guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as 
authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $197,000; for emergency insured loans, 
$26,060,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural disasters; and for 
credit sales of acquired property, $18,903,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $275,392,000.

            rural development insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928 and 86 Stat. 661-664, as 
amended, to be available from funds in the Rural Development Insurance 
Fund, as follows: water and sewer facility loans, $869,443,000, of which 
$35,250,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; community facility loans, 
$300,000,000, of which $75,000,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; and 
guaranteed industrial development loans, $249,381,000: Provided, That 
none of the funds made available in this Act may be used to make 
transfers between the above limitations.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: direct water and sewer facility loans, 
$115,786,000; direct community facility loans, $21,723,000; guaranteed 
community facility loans, $3,803,000; and guaranteed industrial 
development loans, $2,319,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $58,194,000.


                rural development loan fund program account

    For the cost of direct loans $56,000,000, as authorized by the Rural 
Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans of not to exceed $100,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan programs, $1,481,000.

    agricultural resource conservation demonstration program account

    For loan guarantees authorized under sections 1465-1469 of Public 
Law 101-624, for the Agricultural Resource Conservation Demonstration 
Program, $6,799,000 to any State defined as eligible under section 
1465(c)(3)(A) of that Act. For the cost, as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, $3,599,000.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,000,000.

                  rural water and waste disposal grants

    For grants pursuant to section 306(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926), $500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, pursuant to section 306(d) of the above 
Act: Provided, That of this amount, $25,000,000 shall be available for 
water and waste disposal systems to benefit the Colonias along the 
United States/Mexico border, including grants pursuant to section 306C: 
Provided further, That of this amount, up to $15,000,000 shall be 
available for project grants to remedy the dire sanitation conditions in 
rural Alaska villages in which the median household income does not 
exceed 110 percent of the statewide nonmetropolitan household income and 
that notwithstanding the consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
Public Law 87-128, such grants shall be for 50 percent of the 
development cost of the project upon a State or local contribution of 50 
percent of the development cost of the project: Provided further, That, 
with the exception of the foregoing $25,000,000, and the foregoing 
$15,000,000, these funds shall not be used for any purpose not specified 
in section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.


                   very low-income housing repair grants

    For grants to the very low-income elderly for essential repairs to 
dwellings pursuant to section 504 of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                   rural housing for domestic farm labor

    For financial assistance to eligible nonprofit organizations for 
housing for domestic farm labor, pursuant to section 516 of the Housing 
Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1486), $11,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                       mutual and self-help housing

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $12,750,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).


                supervisory and technical assistance grants

    For grants pursuant to sections 509(g)(6) and 525 of the Housing Act 
of 1949, $2,500,000, to remain available until expended.


                  rural community fire protection grants

    For grants pursuant to section 7 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-313), $3,500,000 to fund up to 50 
per centum of the cost of organizing, training, and equipping rural 
volunteer fire departments.


                   compensation for construction defects

    For compensation for construction defects as authorized by section 
509(c) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, $500,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                     rural housing preservation grants

    For grants for rural housing preservation as authorized by section 
552 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983 (Public Law 98-
181), $23,000,000.


                         rural development grants

    For grants authorized under sections 310B(c) and 310B(j) (7 U.S.C. 
1932) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to any 
qualified public or private nonprofit organization, $42,500,000: 
Provided, That $500,000 shall be available for grants to qualified 
nonprofit organizations to provide technical assistance and training for 
rural communities needing improved passenger transportation systems or 
facilities in order to promote economic development.


                       solid waste management grants

    For grants for pollution abatement and control projects authorized 
under section 310B(b) (7 U.S.C. 1932) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, $3,000,000: Provided, That such assistance shall 
include regional technical assistance for improvement of solid waste 
management.


                emergency community water assistance grants

    For emergency community water assistance grants as authorized under 
section 306B (7 U.S.C. 1926b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, $10,000,000.


                Outreach for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                        office of the administrator

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration, $600,000: Provided, 
That no other funds in this Act shall be available for this Office.

                          salaries and expenses


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farmers Home Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, in administering the programs authorized by the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921-2000), as 
amended; title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1471-
1490o); the Rural Rehabilitation Corporation Trust Liquidation Act, 
approved May 3, 1950 (40 U.S.C. 440-444), for administering the loan 
program authorized by title III-A of the Economic Opportunity Act of 
1964 (Public Law 88-452 approved August 20, 1964), as amended, and such 
other programs which the Farmers Home Administration has the 
responsibility for administering, $729,749,000; of which $35,552,000 is 
hereby appropriated, $374,255,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and merged with 
this account, $261,158,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and 
merged with this account, $57,294,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
the Rural Development Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and 
merged with this account, $1,476,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
the Rural Development Loan Fund Program Account in this Act and merged 
with this account, and $14,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
Self-Help Housing Land Development Fund Program Account in this Act and 
merged with this account: Provided, That not to exceed $500,000 of this 
appropriation may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $4,368,000 of this appropriation shall be 
available for contracting with the National Rural Water Association or 
other equally qualified national organization for a circuit rider 
program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems.

                  Rural Electrification Administration

    To carry into effect the provisions of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901-950(b)), as follows:


         rural electrification and telephone loans program account

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), shall be made as 
follows: 5 percent rural electrification loans, $125,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telephone loans, $100,000,000; cost of money rural telephone 
loans, $198,000,000; municipal rate rural electric loans, $600,000,000; 
and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, $933,000,000; to 
remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 935), as follows: cost of direct loans, $33,266,000; 
cost of municipal rate loans, $46,020,000; cost of money rural telephone 
loans, $40,000; cost of loans guaranteed pursuant to section 306, 
$3,090,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000.

                  rural telephone bank program account

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in 
carrying out its authorized programs for the current fiscal year. During 
fiscal year 1994 and within the resources and authority available, gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans shall be 
$199,847,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as Pamended (7 
U.S.C. 935), $3,118,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $8,794,000.

               distance learning and medical link programs

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the programs authorized 
in sections 2331-2335 of Public Law 101-624, $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


             rural economic development loans program account

    For loans authorized under section 313 of the Rural Electrification 
Act, for the purpose of promoting rural economic development and job 
creation projects, $13,025,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct loans, $3,423,000.


                           salaries and expenses

                      (Including Transfers of Funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the provisions of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901-950(b)), and to 
administer the loan and loan guarantee programs for Community Antenna 
Television facilities as authorized by the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921-1995), and for which commitments were 
made prior to fiscal year 1994, including not to exceed $7,000 for 
financial and credit reports, funds for employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $103,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$38,776,000; of which $29,982,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
Rural Electrification and Telephone Loans Program Account in this Act 
and $8,794,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Rural Telephone 
Bank Program Account in this Act: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act may be used to authorize the transfer of additional funds to 
this account from the Rural Telephone Bank: Provided further, That none 
of the salaries and expenses provided to the Rural Electrification 
Administration, and none of the responsibilities assigned by law to the 
Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration may be 
reassigned or transferred to any other agency or office.

                    TITLE IV--DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Assistant Secretary for Food and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Food and Consumer Services to administer the laws enacted 
by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, $551,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service


                         child nutrition programs

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751-1769b), and the applicable provisions other than 
sections 3 and 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773-
1785, and 1788-1789); $7,497,131,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1995, of which $2,727,022,000 is hereby appropriated and 
$4,770,109,000 shall be derived by transfer from funds available under 
section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purpose of section 7 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 shall be allocated among the States but the distribution of 
such funds to an individual State is contingent upon that State's 
agreement to participate in studies and surveys of programs authorized 
under the National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 
when such studies and surveys have been directed by the Congress and 
requested by the Secretary of Agriculture: Provided further, That if the 
Secretary of Agriculture determines that a State's administration of any 
program under the National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (other than section 17), or the regulations issued pursuant to 
these Acts, is seriously deficient, and the State fails to correct the 
deficiency within a specified period of time, the Secretary may withhold 
from the State some or all of the funds allocated to the State under 
section 7 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 and under section 13(k)(1) 
of the National School Lunch Act; upon a subsequent determination by the 
Secretary that the programs are operated in an acceptable manner some or 
all of the funds withheld may be allocated: Provided further, That only 
final reimbursement claims for service of meals, supplements, and milk 
submitted to State agencies by eligible schools, summer camps, 
institutions, and service institutions within sixty days following the 
month for which the reimbursement is claimed shall be eligible for 
reimbursement from funds appropriated under this Act. States may receive 
program funds appropriated under this Act for meals, supplements, and 
milk served during any month only if the final program operations report 
for such month is submitted to the Department within ninety days 
following that month. Exceptions to these claims or reports submission 
requirements may be made at the discretion of the Secretary: Provided 
further, That up to $3,849,000 shall be available for independent 
verification of school food service claims: Provided further, That 
$1,853,000 shall be available to provide financial and other assistance 
to operate the Food Service Management Institute.


                           special milk program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special milk program, as 
authorized by section 3 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1772), $20,277,000, to remain available through September 30, 1995. Only 
final reimbursement claims for milk submitted to State agencies within 
sixty days following the month for which the reimbursement is claimed 
shall be eligible for reimbursement from funds appropriated under this 
Act. States may receive program funds appropriated under this Act only 
if the final program operations report for such month is submitted to 
the Department within ninety days following that month. Exceptions to 
these claims or reports submission requirements may be made at the 
discretion of the Secretary.


    special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,210,000,000, to remain available through September 
30, 1995, of which up to $5,500,000 may be used to carry out the 
farmer's market coupon program: Provided, That none of the funds in this 
Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC clinics 
except those that have an announced policy of prohibiting smoking within 
the space used to carry out the program: Provided further, That until 
revised allocation regulations have been issued, the Secretary may waive 
the 15 percent cap regulation to ensure that all funds are allocated to 
States most in need: Provided further, That no State will incur an 
interest liability to the Federal Government on WIC rebate funds 
provided that all interest earned by the State on these funds is used 
for program purposes.


                    commodity supplemental food program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), including not less than 
$8,000,000 for the projects in Detroit, New Orleans, and Des Moines, 
$104,500,000 to remain available through September 30, 1995: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for commodities donated to the program.


                            food stamp program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011-2029), $28,136,655,000: Provided, That funds provided herein shall 
remain available through September 30, 1994, in accordance with section 
18(a) of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That $2,500,000,000 of 
the foregoing amount shall be placed in reserve for use only in such 
amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry out program 
operations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or work fare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That $345,000,000 of the funds provided herein shall 
be available after the Secretary has employed the regulatory and 
administrative methods available to him under the law to curtail fraud, 
waste, and abuse in the program: Provided further, That $1,091,000,000 
of the foregoing amount shall be available for Nutrition Assistance for 
Puerto Rico as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2028, of which $12,472,000 shall 
be transferred to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service for the 
Cattle Tick Eradication Project.


                food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), section 4(b) 
of the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2013(b)), and section 311 of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $218,641,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 1995: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for meals provided pursuant 
to the Older Americans Act of 1965, a maximum rate of reimbursement to 
States will be established by the Secretary, subject to reduction if 
obligations would exceed the amount of available funds, with any 
unobligated funds to remain available only for obligation in the fiscal 
year beginning Octo-Pber 1, 1994.
    For necessary expenses to carry out section 110 of the Hunger 
Prevention Act of 1988, $40,000,000.


                   the emergency food assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Emergency Food Assistance 
Act of 1983, as amended, $40,000,000: Provided, That, in accordance with 
section 202 of Public Law 98-92, these funds shall be available only if 
the Secretary determines the existence of excess commodities.
    For purchases of commodities to carry out the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, as amended, $80,000,000.

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $107,767,000; of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

            TITLE V--FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and 
for enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $118,027,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available to obtain statistics and related facts on foreign production 
and full and complete information on methods used by other countries to 
move farm commodities in world trade on a competitive basis: Provided 
further, That in addition, funds available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available to assist an international organization 
in meeting the costs, including salaries, fringe benefits and other 
associated costs, related to the employment by the organization of 
Federal personnel that may transfer to the organization under the 
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3581-3584, or of other well-qualified United 
States citizens, for the performance of activities that contribute to 
increased understanding of international agricultural issues, with 
transfer of funds for this purpose from one appropriation to another or 
to a single account authorized, such funds remaining available until 
expended: Provided further, That the Office may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the International Development Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 
2392).
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.


                           general sales manager

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Sales Manager, 
$9,158,000, of which $4,866,000 may be transferred from Commodity Credit 
Corporation funds, $2,792,000 may be transferred from the Commodity 
Credit Corporation Program Account in this Act, and $1,500,000 may be 
transferred from the Public Law 480 Program Account in this Act. The 
General Sales Manager shall obtain, assimilate, and analyze all 
available information on developments related to private sales, as well 
as those funded by the Corporation, including grade and quality as sold 
and as delivered, including information relating to the effectiveness of 
greater reliance by the General Sales Manager upon loan guarantees as 
contrasted to direct loans for financing commercial export sales of 
agricultural commodities out of private stocks on credit terms, as 
provided in titles I and II of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, 
Public Law 95-501, and shall submit quarterly reports to the appropriate 
committees of Congress concerning such developments.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

                     Public Law 480 Program Account


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1715, 1721-1726, 1727-1727f, 1731-
1736g), as follows: (1) $450,446,000 for Public Law 480 title I credit, 
including Food for Progress credit; (2) $45,927,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, as amended; (3) $821,570,000 is hereby 
appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad pursuant to title II of said Act; and (4) $280,083,000 is hereby 
appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad pursuant to title III of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 
10 per centum of the funds made available to carry out any title of said 
Act may be used to carry out any other title of said Act: Provided 
further, That such sums shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 
and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended, including the cost of 
modifying credit agreements under said Act, $346,889,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as 
amended, to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are 
utilized, $2,536,000.


                         short-term export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$5,000,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program for short-term credit extended to finance the export sales of 
United States agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as 
authorized by section 211(b)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 
U.S.C. 5641).


                        intermediate export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$500,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export guarantee program for 
intermediate-term credit extended to finance the export sales of United 
States agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as authorized 
by section 211(b)(2) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5641).


                    emerging democracies export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$200,000,000 in credit guarantees under its Export Guarantee Program for 
credit expended to finance the export sales of United States 
agricultural commodities and the products thereof to emerging 
democracies, as authorized by section 1542 of Public Law 101-624 (7 
U.S.C. 5622 note).


         commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out CCC's Export Guarantee 
Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,381,000; to cover common overhead 
expenses as permitted by section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
Charter Act and in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990, of which not to exceed $2,792,000 may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for the salaries and expenses of the General 
Sales Manager, and of which not to exceed $589,000 may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for the salaries and expenses of the 
Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service.


         scientific activities overseas (foreign currency program)

                          limitation on expenses

    For payments in foreign currencies owed to or owned by the United 
States for research activities authorized by section 104(c)(7) of the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended (7 
U.S.C. 1704(c)(7)), not to exceed $1,062,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $25,000 of these funds shall be available for payments in foreign 
currencies for expenses of employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), as amended by 
5 U.S.C. 3109.

       TITLE VI--RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for rental of 
special purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $867,339,000, of 
which not to exceed $54,000,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
derived from applications received during fiscal year 1994 shall be 
subject to the fiscal year 1994 limitation: Provided further, That none 
of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be used to pay for expenses of 
the Board of Experts on Tea.


                         buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $8,350,000, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That the Food and 
Drug Administration may accept donated land in Montgomery and/or Prince 
George's Counties, Maryland.

                          rental payments (fda)


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration 
which are included in this Act, $48,575,000, of which $15,000,000 shall 
be retained by the Food and Drug Administration for repairs, 
improvements, and non-recurring repairs as determined by the Food and 
Drug Administration: Provided, That in the event the Food and Drug 
Administration should require modification of space needs, a share of 
the salaries and expenses appropriation may be transferred to this 
appropriation, or a share of this appropriation may be transferred to 
the salaries and expenses appropriation, but such transfers shall not 
exceed 5 per centum of the funds made available for rental payments 
(FDA) to or from this account.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

   Payments to the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, for 
reimbursement of interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance 
Corporation on obligations issued through 1993, as authorized, 
$62,696,000.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include 
multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not 
to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $47,485,000, 
including not to exceed $700 for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                       Farm Credit Administration


                   limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $40,426,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 1994 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 657 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 653 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the appropriations of the 
Department of Agriculture in this Act for research and service work 
authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 1954, and (7 
U.S.C. 427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United States 
Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said Acts 
and chapter.
    Sec. 704. Hereafter, none of the funds available to the Department 
of Agriculture may be used to make production or other payments to a 
person, persons, or corporations upon a final finding by court of 
competent jurisdiction that such party is guilty of growing, 
cultivating, harvesting, processing or storing marijuana, or other such 
prohibited drug-producing plants on any part of lands owned or 
controlled by such persons or corporations.
    Sec. 705. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 706. New obligational authority provided for the following 
appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the 
contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, and Integrated Systems 
Acquisition Project; Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation 
Service, salaries and expenses funds made available to county 
committees; Foreign Agricultural Service, Middle-Income Country Training 
Program; higher education graduate fellowships grants under section 
1417(b)(6) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)); and 
capacity building grants to colleges eligible to receive funds under the 
Act of August 30, 1890, including Tuskegee University.
    New obligational authority for the Boll Weevil Program; up to 10 per 
centum of the Screwworm Program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; funds appropriated for Rental Payments; and higher 
education minority scholars programs under section 1417(b)(5) of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)) shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 707. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 708. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.
    Sec. 709. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 per centum of the total direct 
cost of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements 
is to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. 
This does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants 
and contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are 
computed on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations 
are provided in this Act.
    Sec. 710. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
commodities acquired by the Department in connection with Commodity 
Credit Corporation and section 32 price support operations may be used, 
as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide 
commodities to individuals in cases of hardship as determined by the 
Secretary of Agriculture.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs in excess of the amounts specified in this Act; 
nor shall this or any other provision of law require a reduction in the 
level of rental space or services below that of fiscal year 1993 or 
prohibit an expansion of rental space or services with the use of funds 
otherwise appropriated in this Act. Further, no agency of the Department 
of Agriculture, from funds otherwise available, shall reimburse the 
General Services Administration for payment of space rental and related 
costs provided to such agency at a percentage rate which is greater than 
is available in the case of funds appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 712. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
reduce programs by establishing an end-of-year employment ceiling on 
full-time equivalent staff years below the level set herein for the 
following agencies: Food and Drug Administration, 9,824; Farmers Home 
Administration, 12,225; Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation 
Service, 2,550; Rural Electrification Administration, 550; and Soil 
Conservation Service, 14,177.
    Sec. 713. Funds appropriated by this Act shall be applied only to 
the objects for which appropriations were made except as otherwise 
provided by law, as required by 31 U.S.C. 1301.
    Sec. 714. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 715. Hereafter, none of the funds available to the Department 
of Agriculture may be expended to release information acquired from any 
handler under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as 
amended: Provided, That this provision shall not prohibit the release of 
information to other Federal agencies for enforcement purposes: Provided 
further, That this provision shall not prohibit the release of aggregate 
statistical data used in formulating regulations pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended: Provided 
further, That this provision shall not prohibit the release of 
information submitted by milk handlers.
    Sec. 716. Unless otherwise provided in this Act, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act may be used by the 
Farmers Home Administration to employ or otherwise contract with private 
debt collection agencies to collect delinquent payments from Farmers 
Home Administration borrowers.
    Sec. 717. None of the funds in this Act, or otherwise made available 
by this Act, shall be used to sell loans made by the Agricultural Credit 
Insurance Fund. Further, Rural Development Insurance Fund loans offered 
for sale in fiscal year 1994 shall be first offered to the borrowers for 
prepayment.
    Sec. 718. None of the funds in this Act may be used to establish any 
new office, organization, or center for which funds have not been 
provided in advance in Appropriations Acts, except the Department may 
carry out planning activities.
    Sec. 719. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research Service that exceed 14 per centum of total 
Federal funds provided under each award.
    Sec. 720. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal years 1992, 
1993, and 1994 shall remain available until expended to cover 
obligations made in fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 for the following 
accounts: Rural Development Insurance Fund Program Account; Rural 
Development Loan Fund Program Account; the Rural Telephone Bank Program 
Account; the Rural Electrification and Telephone Loans Program Account; 
and the Rural Economic Development Loans Program Account: Provided, That 
hereafter, such appropriations are authorized to remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 721. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 722. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds in this Act may be used to operate the seven regional offices 
of the Rural Development Administration after April 1, 1994.
    Sec. 723. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries of personnel who carry out 
a Market Promotion Program pursuant to section 203 (7 U.S.C. 5623) of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, with respect to tobacco or if the 
aggregate amount of funds and/or commodities under such program exceeds 
$100,000,000.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to enroll in excess of 75,000 acres in the 
fiscal year 1994 Wetlands Reserve Program, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
3837.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to enroll additional acres in the Conservation 
Reserve Program authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3831-3845.
    Sec. 726. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 727. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities 
    receiving the assistance should, in expending the assistance, 
    purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 728. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
provide a total amount of payments to a person to support the price of 
honey under section 207 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446h) 
and section 405A of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1425a) in excess of $0 in the 
1994 crop year.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act shall be used 
by the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for a total amount of 
payments and/or total amount of loan forfeitures to a person to support 
the price of honey under section 207 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1446h) and section 405A of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1425a) in excess of 
zero dollars in the 1994 crop year.
    Sec. 729. Section 712 of this Act shall have no effect.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.