[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2295 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2295
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and 
making supplemental appropriations for such programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                TITLE I--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE


                    FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                  International Financial Institutions


      contribution to the International bank for reconstruction and 
                               development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
share of the paid-in share portion of the increases in capital stock for 
the General Capital Increase, $55,821,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That one quarter of such funds may be obligated only 
after April 1, 1994: Provided further, That one quarter of such funds 
may be obligated only after September 1, 1994: Provided further, That 
not more than twenty-one days prior to the obligation of each such sum, 
the Secretary shall submit a certification to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the Bank has not approved any loans to Iran since 
October 1, 1993, or the President of the United States certifies that 
withholding of these funds is contrary to the national interest of the 
United States.
    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Global Environment Facility (GEF), $30,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such funds shall be made 
available to the Facility by the Secretary of the Treasury if the 
Secretary determines (and so reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations) that the Facility implementing agencies have: (1) 
established clear procedures ensuring public availability of documentary 
information on all Facility projects and associated projects of the 
Facility implementing agencies; and (2) have developed or are in the 
process of developing clear procedures ensuring that affected peoples in 
recipient countries are consulted on all aspects of identification, 
preparation, and implementation of Facility projects and associated 
projects of the Facility implementing agencies: Provided further, That 
in the event the Secretary of the Treasury has not made such 
determinations by September 30, 1994, funds appropriated under this 
heading for the GEF shall be transferred to the Agency for International 
Development and used for activities associated with the GEF and the 
Global Warming Initiative.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share of 
increases in capital stock in an amount not to exceed $1,804,879,000: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director to each of the international financial 
institutions (IFIs) to use the voice and vote of the United States to 
urge that each of the IFIs establish an independent entity appointed by 
and reporting to the executive board, with the authority and functions 
of an inspector general: Provided further, That on or before March 31, 
1994, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the progress being made towards 
establishing such entities: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall consult and work with appropriate international fora to 
establish an independent commission to review the operations and 
management structure of the IFIs: Provided further, That the commission, 
which should be funded from the budgets of the IFIs, would be comprised 
of members of various nationalities who are familiar with the management 
and operations of the IFIs: Provided further, That on or before March 
31, 1994, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the progress being made towards 
establishing the commission.


         CONTRIBUTION TO THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $1,024,332,000, for the United States 
contribution to the replenishment, to remain available until expended.


           contribution to the international finance corporation

    For payment to the International Finance Corporation by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $35,761,500, for the United States share of 
the increase in subscriptions to capital stock, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading not more than $5,364,000 may be expended for the purchase of 
such stock in fiscal year 1994.


            contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in share portion 
of the increase in capital stock, $56,166,000, and for the United States 
share of the increases in the resources of the Fund for Special 
Operations, $20,164,000, to remain available until expended.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $2,190,283,457.


       contribution to the enterprise for the americas multilateral 
                             investment fund

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the Fund to be administered by the Inter-American 
Development Bank, $75,000,000 to remain available until expended.


                contribution to the asian development bank

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, for the paid-in share portion of the United States share of 
the increase in capital stock, $13,026,366, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading are 
available subject to receipt by the Congress of the President's budget 
request for such funds.


                contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increases in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended (Public Law 89-
369), $62,500,000, to remain available until expended.


               limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Asian Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital portion 
of the United States share of increases in the capital stock in an 
amount not to exceed $95,438,437: Provided, That the authority provided 
under this heading is available subject to receipt by the Congress of 
the President's budget request for such authority.


               CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $135,000,000, for the United States contribution to the sixth 
replenishment of the African Development Fund, to remain available until 
expended.


                 INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $360,628,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the following: the United Nations Fund for Science 
and Technology, the G-7 Nuclear Safety Fund, the OECD Center for 
Cooperation with European Economies in Transition, and United Nations 
Electoral Assistance activities: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for the 
International Atomic Energy Agency only if the Secretary of State 
determines (and so reports to the Congress) that Israel is not being 
denied its right to participate in the activities of that Agency: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading that 
are made available for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), 75 
per centum (less amounts withheld consistent with section 307 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and section 516 of this Act) shall be 
obligated and expended no later than thirty days after the date of 
enactment of this Act and 25 per centum of which shall be expended 
within thirty days from the start of UNICEF's fourth quarter of 
operations for 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading that are made available to the United 
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) shall be made available for activities 
in the People's Republic of China: Provided further, That not more than 
$40,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available to the UNFPA: Provided further, That not more than one-half of 
this amount may be provided to UNFPA before March 1, 1994, and that no 
later than February 15, 1994, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations indicating the amount UNFPA 
is budgeting for the People's Republic of China in 1994: Provided 
further, That any amount UNFPA plans to spend in the People's Republic 
of China in 1994 above $10,000,000, shall be deducted from the amount of 
funds provided to UNFPA after March 1, 1994: Provided further, That with 
respect to any funds appropriated under this heading that are made 
available to UNFPA, UNFPA shall be required to maintain such funds in a 
separate account and not commingle them with any other funds.

                 TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE


                    FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 1994, unless otherwise 
specified herein, as follows:

                  Agency for International Development


                        development assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $811,900,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 1995.


                    POPULATION, DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 
104(b), $392,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available in this Act nor any 
unobligated balances from prior appropriations may be made available to 
any organization or program which, as determined by the President of the 
United States, supports or participates in the management of a program 
of coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be used to 
pay for the performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions; and that in order 
to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be 
available only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either 
directly or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad 
range of family planning methods and services: Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, all 
such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso: Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                       development fund for africa

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 10 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $784,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out chapters 1 and 10 of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be transferred to the Government of 
Zaire: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
which are made available for activities supported by the Southern Africa 
Development Community shall be made available notwithstanding section 
512 of this Act and section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.

                   PRIVATE AND VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 per centum of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the requirements of 
the provisions of section 123(g) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
and the provisions on private and voluntary organizations in title II of 
the ``Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1985'' 
(as enacted in Public Law 98-473) shall be superseded by the provisions 
of this section.


                     INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $145,985,000 to remain 
available until expended.


          micro and small enterprise development program account

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,000,000, as 
authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended: Provided, That such costs shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans and total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $25,000,000.


       PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN SERVICE RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $44,151,000.


      OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$501,760,000: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by title II 
of this Act may be obligated after March 31, 1994 unless the 
Administration has acted to implement those recommendations of the 
Report of the National Performance Review which can be accomplished 
without legislation and has submitted the necessary package of proposed 
legislation to accomplish the following remaining recommendations:
        (1) reform of foreign assistance programs and rewriting of the 
    Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
        (2) reform of the personnel systems of the Agency for 
    International Development aimed at integrating the multiple 
    personnel systems and reviewing benefits under each system,
        (3) lifting of some current Agency personnel restrictions and 
    giving managers authority to manage staff resources more efficiently 
    and effectively,
        (4) reengineering of project and program management processes to 
    emphasize innovation, flexibility, beneficiary participation, pilot 
    and experimental programs, incentive systems linked to project and 
    program performance, processes for continuing critical review and 
    evaluation, and improved coordination systems with other donors, and
        (5) a planned reduction of a specific number of Agency missions 
    during the next three years, of which at least twelve shall be 
    terminated during the first year.
    For additional expenses only to carry out the provisions of section 
667 related to termination or phasing down of overseas missions of the 
Agency for International Development and related to improving the 
information and financial management systems and customer service of the 
Agency for International Development as recommended by the Report of the 
National Performance Review, $3,000,000 to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds appropriated by this paragraph may be 
made available notwithstanding any other provision of law, shall not be 
transferred or utilized for any other purpose, and shall be in addition 
to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.


  OPERATING EXPENSES OF THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 
                          OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$39,118,000, which sum shall be available for the Office of the 
Inspector General of the Agency for International Development.


                     HOUSING GUARANTY PROGRAM ACCOUNT

    For the subsidy cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990, of guaranteed loans authorized by sections 221 
and 222 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $16,078,000: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $110,000,000: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize loan principal, 100 
percent of which shall be guaranteed, pursuant to the authority of such 
sections: Provided further, That the President shall enter into 
commitments to guarantee such loans in the full amount provided under 
this heading, subject to the availability of qualified applicants for 
such guarantees. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
guaranteed loan programs, $8,239,000, all of which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency 
for International Development: Provided further, That commitments to 
guarantee loans under this heading may be entered into notwithstanding 
the second and third sentences of section 222(a) and, with regard to 
programs for Eastern Europe and programs for the benefit of South 
Africans disadvantaged by apartheid, section 223(j) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


                            debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforce- 
ment Act of 1990, of modifying direct loans and loan guaran- tees, as 
the President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the International Affairs 
Budget Function 150, $7,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                           ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,364,562,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $1,200,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall 
be available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1993, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $815,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance may be provided, 
with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic 
reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in previous 
fiscal years, and of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be provided 
as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That in 
exercising the authority to provide cash transfer assistance for Israel 
and Egypt, the President shall ensure that the level of such assistance 
does not cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary 
exports from the United States to each such country: Provided further, 
That it is the sense of the Congress that the recommended levels of 
assistance for Egypt and Israel are based in great measure upon their 
continued participation in the Camp David Accords and upon the Egyptian-
Israeli peace treaty: Provided further, That not less than $15,000,000 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be made available for 
Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, bicommunal projects, and 
measures aimed at the reunification of the island and designed to reduce 
tensions, and promote peace and cooperation between the two communities 
on Cyprus: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be made available for Zaire: Provided further, That 
not more than $50,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading 
may be made available to finance tied-aid credits, unless the President 
determines it is in the national interest to provide in excess of 
$50,000,000 and so notifies the Committees on Appropriations through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available or limited by 
this Act may be used for tied-aid credits or tied-aid grants except 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 and 10 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for tied-aid credits: 
Provided further, That as used in this heading the term ``tied-aid 
credits'' means any credit, within the meaning of section 15(h)(1) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, which is used for blended or 
parallel financing, as those terms are defined by sections 15(h) (4) and 
(5), respectively, of such Act: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall remain available until September 
30, 1995.


                      international fund for ireland

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, up to $19,600,000, which shall be 
available for the United States contribution to the International Fund 
for Ireland and shall be made available in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 (Public Law 
99-415): Provided, That such amount shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and activities: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading shall 
remain available until expended.


            assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $390,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, for economic assistance and for related programs for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States.
    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior appropriations 
Acts that are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund may be 
deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the Fund's 
disbursement of such funds for program purposes. The Fund may retain for 
such program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without 
returning such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without 
further appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for 
Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make 
timely payment for projects and activities.
    (c) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained in 
that Act for the use of economic assistance.


   assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 11 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the FREEDOM Support 
Act, for assistance for the new independent states of the former Soviet 
Union and for related programs, $603,820,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the provisions of 498B(j) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to funds appropriated by this 
paragraph.

                          Independent Agencies


                      AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of title V of the 
International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980, Public 
Law 96-533, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 9104, title 31, United 
States Code, $16,905,000: Provided, That, when, with the permission of 
the President of the Foundation, funds made available to a grantee under 
this heading are invested pending disbursement, the resulting interest 
is not required to be deposited in the United States Treasury if the 
grantee uses the resulting interest for the purpose for which the grant 
was made: Provided further, That this provision applies with respect to 
both interest earned before and interest earned after the enactment of 
this provision: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) 
of the African Development Foundation Act, in exceptional circumstances 
the board of directors of the Foundation may waive the dollar limitation 
contained in that section with respect to a project: Provided further, 
That the Foundation shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations after each time such waiver authority is exercised.


                         INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION

    For expenses necessary to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, and to make such contracts and 
commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 
section 9104, title 31, United States Code, $30,960,000.


                  OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION

                              program account

    For the subsidy cost as defined in section 13201 of the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990, of direct and guaranteed loans authorized by 
section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as follows: cost of 
direct and guaranteed loans, $9,065,000. In addition, for administrative 
expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, 
$7,518,000: Provided, That the funds provided in this paragraph shall be 
available for and apply to costs, direct loan obligations and loan 
guaranty commitments incurred or made during the period from October 1, 
1993 through September 30, 1995: Provided further, That such sums are to 
remain available through fiscal year 2002 for the disbursement of direct 
and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 1994, and through 2003 for 
the disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal year 
1995.
    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such noncredit expenditures and commitments within the limits of 
funds available to it and in accordance with law (including an amount 
for official reception and representation expenses which shall not 
exceed $35,000) as may be necessary.


                                PEACE CORPS

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $219,745,000, including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for use 
outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $3,000,000 from amounts appropriated under this heading may be 
transferred to the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps, 
Account'', as authorized by section 16 of the Peace Corps Act, as 
amended.

                           Department of State


                      INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 481 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $100,000,000: Provided, That during 
fiscal year 1994, the Bureau of International Narcotics Matters of the 
Department of State may also use the authority of section 608 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to its restrictions, to 
receive non-lethal excess property from an agency of the United States 
Government for the purpose of providing it to a foreign country under 
chapter 8 of part I of that Act subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


                     MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross and assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the Intergovernmental Committee for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; salaries and 
expenses of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 
5925 of title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; $670,688,000: Provided, That not less than $80,000,000 shall be 
available for Soviet, Eastern European and other refugees resettling in 
Israel: Provided further, That not more than $11,500,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
administrative expenses of the Office of Refugee Programs of the 
Department of State.


       united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $49,261,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 2(c)(2) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 which would limit 
the amount of funds which could be appropriated for this purpose.


                         ANTI-TERRORISM ASSISTANCE

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 8 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $15,244,000.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


               INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $21,250,000: Provided, That up to 
$300,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for grant financed military education and training for any 
country whose annual per capita GNP exceeds $2,349 on the condition that 
that country agrees to fund from its own resources the transportation 
cost and living allowances of its students: Provided further, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and training may be 
provided under this heading may also include members of national 
legislatures who are responsible for the oversight and management of the 
military: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for Indonesia and Zaire.


                    foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,149,279,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph not less than $1,800,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be available for 
grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds appropriated by 
this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within thirty days of 
enactment of this Act or by October 31, 1993, whichever is later: 
Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of Israel 
requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for 
Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and the United 
States, be available for advanced fighter aircraft programs or for other 
advanced weapons systems, as follows: (1) up to $150,000,000 shall be 
available for research and development in the United States; and (2) not 
less than $475,000,000 shall be available for the procurement in Israel 
of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
paragraph shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in 
section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act.
    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, of direct loans authorized by section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act as follows: cost of direct loans, $46,530,000: Provided, 
That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans of not to exceed $769,500,000: Provided 
further, That the rate of interest charged on such loans shall be not 
less than the current average market yield on outstanding marketable 
obligations of the United States of comparable maturities: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be made 
available for Greece, Portugal, and Turkey only on a loan basis, and the 
principal amount of direct loans for each country shall not exceed the 
following: $283,500,000 only for Greece, $81,000,000 only for Portugal, 
and $405,000,000 only for Turkey.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: Provided, 
That all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of section 515 of 
this Act: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph 
(5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a): Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for Zaire, Sudan, Liberia, Guatemala, Peru, and Malawi: 
Provided further, That not more than $100,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for use in financing the 
procurement of defense articles, defense services, or design and 
construction services that are not sold by the United States Government 
under the Arms Export Control Act to countries other than Israel and 
Egypt: Provided further, That only those countries for which assistance 
was justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in 
the fiscal year 1989 congressional presentation for security assistance 
programs may utilize funds made available under this heading for 
procurement of defense articles, defense services or design and 
construction services that are not sold by the United States Government 
under the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That, subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
funds made available under this heading for the cost of direct loans may 
also be used to supplement the funds available under this heading for 
necessary expenses for grants if countries specified under this heading 
as eligible for such direct loans decline to utilize such loans: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for 
defense articles and services: Provided further, That the Department of 
Defense shall conduct during the current fiscal year nonreimbursable 
audits of private firms whose contracts are made directly with foreign 
governments and are financed with funds made available under this 
heading (as well as subcontractors thereunder) as requested by the 
Defense Security Assistance Agency: Provided further, That not more than 
$23,558,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the United 
States, for the general costs of administering military assistance and 
sales: Provided further, That not more than $290,000,000 of funds 
realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during the fiscal year 1994 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export 
Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded only through 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, and no employee of the Defense Security Assistance Agency, may 
be used to facilitate the transport of aircraft to commercial arms sales 
shows.


                     Special Defense Acquisition Fund

    Notwithstanding section 51 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
collections in excess of obligational authority provided in prior 
appropriations Acts shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision of Public Law 
102-391, not to exceed $160,000,000 of the obligational authority 
provided in that Act under the heading ``Special Defense Acquisition 
Fund'' may be obligated pursuant to section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export 
Control Act.


                          PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $75,623,000.

                  Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund

    For necessary expenses for a ``Nonproliferation and Disarmament 
Fund'', $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, to promote 
bilateral and multilateral activities: Provided, That such funds may be 
used pursuant to the authorities contained in section 504 of the FREEDOM 
Support Act: Provided further, That such funds may also be used for such 
countries other than the new independent states of the former Soviet 
Union and international organizations when it is in the national 
security interest of the United States to do so: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                       TITLE IV--EXPORT ASSISTANCE


                  EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon State as defined in article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of enactment of this Act.

                          subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $1,000,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until 2009 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 1994 and 1995: 
Provided further, That up to $50,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
paragraph shall remain available until expended and may be used for 
tied-aid grant purposes: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph may be used for tied-aid credits or 
grants except through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
by this paragraph are made available notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, in connection with the purchase or 
lease of any product by any East European country, any Baltic State, or 
any agency or national thereof.


                          ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs (to be computed on an accrual basis), 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $20,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, 
$45,369,000: Provided, That necessary expenses (including special 
services performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other 
personal services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the 
Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other 
assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank in satisfaction of moneys owed 
the Export-Import Bank, or the investigation or appraisal of any 
property, or the evaluation of the legal or technical aspects of any 
transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or insurance 
commitment has been made, shall be considered nonadministrative expenses 
for the purposes of this heading.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President


                       TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $40,000,000.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS


               OBLIGATIONS DURING LAST MONTH OF AVAILABILITY

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 per centum of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.


       PROHIBITION OF BILATERAL FUNDING FOR INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
                              INSTITUTIONS

    Sec. 502. None of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be 
used to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.


                     LIMITATION ON RESIDENCE EXPENSES

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.


                          LIMITATION ON EXPENSES

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal year.


                 LIMITATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL ALLOWANCES

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available by this Act for general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances.


                  PROHIBITION ON FINANCING NUCLEAR GOODS

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'') pursuant to 
this Act, for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used, except for purposes of nuclear safety, to finance the export of 
nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology.


         PROHIBITION AGAINST DIRECT FUNDING FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam, Iran, Serbia, Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, the prohibition on obligations or expenditures 
shall include direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the 
Export-Import Bank or its agents.


                              MILITARY COUPS

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance to any country whose duly elected Head of Government is 
deposed by military coup or decree: Provided, That assistance may be 
resumed to such country if the President determines and reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the termination of 
assistance a democratically elected government has taken office.


                        TRANSFERS BETWEEN ACCOUNTS

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any 
authority contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer 
funds, consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.


                    DEOBLIGATION/REOBLIGATION AUTHORITY

    Sec. 510. (a) Amounts certified pursuant to section 1311 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1955, as having been obligated against 
appropriations heretofore made under the authority of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the same general purpose as any of the 
headings under the ``Agency for International Development'' are, if 
deobligated, hereby continued available for the same period as the 
respective appropriations under such headings or until September 30, 
1994, whichever is later, and for the same general purpose, and for 
countries within the same region as originally obligated: Provided, That 
the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of the Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of the deobligation and reobligation of 
such funds in accordance with regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out section 23 
of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under this 
Act.


                           availability of funds

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 of part I, 
section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, shall remain available until expended if such funds 
are initially obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of payments 
or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the report required by section 653(a) 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate for each country, 
to the extent known at the time of submission of such report, those 
funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of payment and 
economic policy reform purposes.


             LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES IN DEFAULT

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of one calendar year in payment to the United States 
of principal or interest on any loan made to such country by the United 
States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated under this 
Act: Provided, That this section and section 620(q) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds made available in this 
Act or during the current fiscal year for Nicaragua, and for any 
narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru authorized 
by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act.


                            COMMERCE AND TRADE

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the commodity 
is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the resulting 
productive capacity is expected to become operative and if the 
assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers of 
the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the judgment 
of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and employment in the 
United States are likely to outweigh the injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to carry 
out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be 
available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, variety 
improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or 
training in connection with the growth or production in a foreign 
country of an agricultural commodity for export which would compete with 
a similar commodity grown or produced in the United States: Provided, 
That this subsection shall not prohibit--
        (1) activities designed to increase food security in developing 
    countries where such activities will not have a significant impact 
    in the export of agricultural commodities of the United States; or
        (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit American 
    producers.
    (c) None of the funds provided in this Act to the Agency for 
International Development, other than funds made available to carry out 
Caribbean Basin Initiative programs under the Tariff Schedules of the 
United States, section 1202 of title 19, United States Code, schedule 8, 
part I, subpart B, item 807.00, shall be obligated or expended--
        (1) to procure directly feasibility studies or prefeasibility 
    studies for, or project profiles of potential investment in, the 
    manufacture, for export to the United States or to third country 
    markets in direct competition with United States exports, of import-
    sensitive articles as defined by section 503(c)(1) (A) and (E) of 
    the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 2463(c)(1) (A) and (E)); or
        (2) to assist directly in the establishment of facilities 
    specifically designed for the manufacture, for export to the United 
    States or to third country markets in direct competition with United 
    States exports, of import-sensitive articles as defined in section 
    503(c)(1) (A) and (E) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
    2463(c)(1) (A) and (E)).


                            SURPLUS COMMODITIES

    Sec. 514. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the International Development Association, the 
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the African Development Bank, and the 
African Development Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States 
to oppose any assistance by these institutions, using funds appropriated 
or made available pursuant to this Act, for the production or extraction 
of any commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world 
markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United 
States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                        NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

    Sec. 515. For the purposes of providing the Executive Branch with 
the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Development Assistance Fund'', 
``Population, Development Assistance'', ``Development Fund for Africa'', 
``International organizations and programs'', ``Trade and Development 
Agency'', ``International narcotics control'', ``Assistance for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States'', ``Assistance for the New Independent 
States of the Former Soviet Union'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
``Peacekeeping operations'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency for 
International Development'', ``Operating expenses of the Agency for 
International Development Office of Inspector General'', ``Anti-
terrorism assistance'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
``International military education and training'', ``Inter-American 
Foundation'', ``African Development Foundation'', ``Peace Corps'', or 
``Migration and refugee assistance'', shall be available for obligation 
for activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
countries, or other operation not justified or in excess of the amount 
justified to the Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of 
these specific headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are previously notified fifteen days in advance: 
Provided, That the President shall not enter into any commitment of 
funds appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other than 
conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified 
to Congress or 20 per centum in excess of the quantities justified to 
Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified fifteen 
days in advance of such commitment: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or 
project under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
of less than 20 per centum of the amount previously justified to the 
Congress for obligation for such activity, program, or project for the 
current fiscal year: Provided further, That the requirements of this 
section or any similar provision of this Act requiring notification in 
accordance with the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations may be waived if failure to do so would pose a 
substantial risk to human health or welfare: Provided further, That in 
case of any such waiver, notification to the Congress, or the 
appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than three days after taking the 
action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


   LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS 
                              AND PROGRAMS

    Sec. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or of this 
Act, none of the funds provided for ``International Organizations and 
Programs'' shall be available for the United States proportionate share 
for any programs for the Palestine Liberation Organization (or for 
projects whose purpose is to provide benefits to the Palestine 
Liberation Organization or entities associated with it), Libya, Iran, 
or, at the discretion of the President, Communist countries listed in 
section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended: 
Provided, That, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of this section or any similar provision of law, shall remain available 
for obligation through September 30, 1995.
    (b) The United States shall not make any voluntary or assessed 
contribution--
        (1) to any affiliated organization of the United Nations which 
    grants full membership as a state to any organization or group that 
    does not have the internationally recognized attributes of 
    statehood, or
        (2) to the United Nations, if the United Nations grants full 
    membership as a state in the United Nations to any organization or 
    group that does not have the internationally recognized attributes 
    of statehood,
during any period in which such membership is effective.
    (c) Subsection (a) shall cease to have effect during fiscal year 
1994 with respect to the Palestine Liberation Organization (P.L.O.), 
programs for the P.L.O., and programs for the benefit of entities 
associated with it which accept the commitments made by the P.L.O. on 
September 9, 1993 if the President determines and notifies Congress that 
to do so is in the national interest: Provided, That subsection (a) 
shall resume full force and effect if at any time during fiscal 1994 the 
President determines and so notifies Congress that the P.L.O. has ceased 
to comply with the commitments it made on September 9, 1993, or the 
Congress, by joint resolution, determines that the P.L.O. has ceased to 
comply with the commitments it made on September 9, 1993.


                ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL

    Sec. 517. The Congress finds that progress on the peace process in 
the Middle East is vitally important to United States security interests 
in the region. The Congress recognizes that, in fulfilling its 
obligations under the Treaty of Peace Between the Arab Republic of Egypt 
and the State of Israel, done at Washington on March 26, 1979, Israel 
incurred severe economic burdens. Furthermore, the Congress recognizes 
that an economically and militarily secure Israel serves the security 
interests of the United States, for a secure Israel is an Israel which 
has the incentive and confidence to continue pursuing the peace process. 
Therefore, the Congress declares that it is the policy and the intention 
of the United States that the funds provided in annual appropriations 
for the Economic Support Fund which are allocated to Israel shall not be 
less than the annual debt repayment (interest and principal) from Israel 
to the United States Government in recognition that such a principle 
serves United States interests in the region.


      PROHIBITION CONCERNING ABORTIONS AND INVOLUNTARY STERILIZATION

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide any 
financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None of the 
funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any biomedical research 
which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, or the performance of, 
abortions or involuntary sterilization as a means of family planning. 
None of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be obligated or expended for any 
country or organization if the President certifies that the use of these 
funds by any such country or organization would violate any of the above 
provisions related to abortions and involuntary sterilizations. The 
Congress reaffirms its commitments to Population, Development Assistance 
and to the need for informed voluntary family planning.


                           reporting requirement

    Sec. 519. The President shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the reports required by section 25(a)(1) of the Arms 
Export Control Act.


                     special notification requirements

    Sec. 520. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Afghanistan, Cambodia, Colombia, El Salvador, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan, Liberia, Malawi, Nicaragua, Peru, 
Sudan, Togo, or Zaire except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
That this section shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act to 
carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 that are made available for El Salvador and 
Nicaragua.


               DEFINITION OF PROGRAM, PROJECT, AND ACTIVITY

    Sec. 521. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the Appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all Appropriations and Authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as (1) 
justified to the Congress, or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within thirty days of enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


            family planning, child survival and aids activities

    Sec. 522. Up to $8,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance for family planning, health, child survival, and AIDS, 
may be used to reimburse United States Government agencies, agencies of 
State governments, institutions of higher learning, and private and 
voluntary organizations for the full cost of individuals (including for 
the personal services of such individuals) detailed or assigned to, or 
contracted by, as the case may be, the Agency for International 
Development for the purpose of carrying out family planning activities, 
child survival activities and activities relating to research on, and 
the treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome in 
developing countries: Provided, That such individuals shall not be 
included within any personnel ceiling applicable to any United States 
Government agency during the period of detail or assignment: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated by this Act that are made available for 
child survival activities or activities relating to research on, and the 
treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome may be 
made available notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated by this Act that are made available for family planning 
activities may be made available notwithstanding section 512 of this Act 
and section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


         prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly any 
assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, the Socialist Republic 
of Vietnam, Iran, Syria, North Korea, People's Republic of China, or 
Laos unless the President of the United States certifies that the 
withholding of these funds is contrary to the national interest of the 
United States.


                            RECIPROCAL LEASING

    Sec. 524. Section 61(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by 
striking out ``1993'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``1994''.


                 NOTIFICATION ON EXCESS DEFENSE EQUIPMENT

    Sec. 525. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
to the same extent and under the same conditions as are other committees 
pursuant to subsection (c) of that section: Provided, That before 
issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles under the Arms 
Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such Committees 
shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of such defense 
articles.


                         authorization requirement

    Sec. 526. Funds appropriated by Title I through V of this Act may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
and section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to agree on 
behalf of the United States to participate in the tenth replenishment of 
the resources of the International Development Association, the fifth 
replenishment of the Asian Development Fund, and the replenishment of 
the permanent Global Environment Facility, subject to obtaining the 
necessary appropriations: Provided further, That pursuant to the tenth 
replenishment of the resources of the International Development 
Association, $2,500,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated.


                             DEPLETED URANIUM

    Sec. 527. None of the funds provided in this or any other Act may be 
made available to facilitate in any way the sale of M-833 antitank 
shells or any comparable antitank shells containing a depleted uranium 
penetrating component to any country other than (1) countries which are 
members of NATO, (2) countries which have been designated as a major 
non-NATO ally for purposes of section 1105 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1987 or, (3) Taiwan: Provided, That 
funds may be made available to facilitate the sale of such shells 
notwithstanding the limitations of this section if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national security interest of the 
United States.


     OPPOSITION TO ASSISTANCE TO TERRORIST COUNTRIES BY INTERNATIONAL 
                         FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

    Sec. 528. (a) Instructions for United States Executive Directors.--
The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive 
Director of each international financial institution designated in 
subsection (b), and the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development shall instruct the United States Executive Director of the 
International Fund for Agriculture Development, to use the voice and 
vote of the United States to oppose any loan or other use of the funds 
of the respective institution to or for a country for which the 
Secretary of State has made a determination under section 6(j) of the 
Export Administration Act of 1979.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``international financial institution'' includes--
        (1) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
    the International Development Association, and the International 
    Monetary Fund; and
        (2) wherever applicable, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
    the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the 
    African Development Fund, and the European Bank for Reconstruction 
    and Development.


        Prohibition on Bilateral Assistance to Terrorist Countries

    Sec. 529. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for bilateral assistance under any heading of this Act and 
funds appropriated under any such heading in a provision of law enacted 
prior to enactment of this Act, shall not be made available to any 
country which the President determines--
        (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or group 
    which has committed an act of international terrorism, or
        (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.
    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to a 
country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least fifteen days before 
the waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in accordance 
with the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.


                  commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 530. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to 
the regular notification requirements of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel and Egypt and 
NATO and major non-NATO allies for the procurement by leasing (including 
leasing with an option to purchase) of defense articles from United 
States commercial suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment 
(other than helicopters and other types of aircraft having possible 
civilian application), if the President determines that there are 
compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for those defense 
articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by government-
to-government sale under such Act.

                          competitive insurance

    Sec. 531. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, shall 
include a clause requiring that United States marine insurance companies 
have a fair opportunity to bid for marine insurance when such insurance 
is necessary or appropriate.


                    stingers in the persian gulf region

    Sec. 532. Except as provided in section 581 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1990, the United States may not sell or otherwise make available any 
Stingers to any country bordering the Persian Gulf under the Arms Export 
Control Act or chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.


    prohibition on leveraging and diversion of united states assistance

    Sec. 533. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
provided to any foreign government (including any instrumentality or 
agency thereof), foreign person, or United States person in exchange for 
that foreign government or person undertaking any action which is, if 
carried out by the United States Government, a United States official or 
employee, expressly prohibited by a provision of United States law.
    (b) For the purposes of this section the term ``funds appropriated 
by this Act'' includes only (1) assistance of any kind under the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961; and (2) credits, and guaranties under the Arms 
Export Control Act.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit--
        (1) the ability of the President, the Vice President, or any 
    official or employee of the United States to make statements or 
    otherwise express their views to any party on any subject;
        (2) the ability of an official or employee of the United States 
    to express the policies of the President; or
        (3) the ability of an official or employee of the United States 
    to communicate with any foreign country government, group or 
    individual, either directly or through a third party, with respect 
    to the prohibitions of this section including the reasons for such 
    prohibitions, and the actions, terms, or conditions which might lead 
    to the removal of the prohibitions of this section.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 534. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under the heading ``Agency for International Development'' and any 
interest earned on such investment may be for the purpose for which the 
assistance was provided to that organization.

                         location of stockpiles

    Sec. 535. Section 514(b)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is 
amended by striking out ``$389,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, of which 
amount not less than $200,000,000 shall be available for stockpiles in 
Israel, and up to $189,000,000 may be available for stockpiles in the 
Republic of Korea'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$200,000,000 for 
stockpiles in Israel for fiscal year 1994'', up to $72,000,000 may be 
made available for stockpiles in the Republic of Korea, and up to 
$20,000,000 may be made available for stockpiles in Thailand.

                         assistance for pakistan

    Sec. 536. (a) The date specified in section 620E(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows: ``September 30, 
1994''.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be obligated or 
expended for Pakistan except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


                             separate accounts

    Sec. 537. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I (including the Philippines Multilateral 
Assistance Initiative) or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation of local 
currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall--
        (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a separate 
    account established by that government;
        (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
    forth--
            (i) the amount of the local currencies to be generated, and
            (ii) the terms and conditions under which the currencies so 
        deposited may be utilized, consistent with this section; and
        (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
    responsibilities of the Agency for International Development and 
    that government to monitor and account for deposits into and 
    disbursements from the separate account.
    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local currencies, 
shall be used only--
        (A) to carry out chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part 
    II (as the case may be), for such purposes as:
            (i) project and sector assistance activities, or
            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
        (B) for the administrative requirements of the United States 
    Government.
    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that the 
equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2)(A) from the separate account established pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1) are used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
(a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapters 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Conforming Amendments.--The provisions of this subsection shall 
supersede the tenth and eleventh provisos contained under the heading 
``Sub-Saharan Africa, Development Assistance'' as included in the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1989 and sections 531(d) and 609 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is made 
available to the government of a foreign country, under chapters 1 or 10 
of part I (including the Philippines Multilateral Assistance Initiative) 
or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as cash 
transfer assistance or as nonproject sector assistance, that country 
shall be required to maintain such funds in a separate account and not 
commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee 
of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (H. Report No. 98-
1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least fifteen days prior to obligating any 
such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed description 
of how the funds proposed to be made available will be used, with a 
discussion of the United States interests that will be served by the 
assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the economic 
policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.


   compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 538. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or 
while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, and the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.


           Compliance With United Nations Sanctions Against Iraq

    Sec. 539. (a) Denial of Assistance.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to carry out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (including title IV of chapter 2 of part 
I, relating to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms 
Export Control Act may be used to provide assistance to any country that 
is not in compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions 
against Iraq unless the President determines and so certifies to the 
Congress that--
        (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the United 
    States;
        (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people in 
    that country; or
        (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
    assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.
    (b) Import Sanctions.--If the President considers that the taking of 
such action would promote the effectiveness of the economic sanctions of 
the United Nations and the United States imposed with respect to Iraq, 
and is consistent with the national interest, the President may 
prohibit, for such a period of time as he considers appropriate, the 
importation into the United States of any or all products of any foreign 
country that has not prohibited--
        (1) the importation of products of Iraq into its customs 
    territory, and
        (2) the export of its products to Iraq.


                         pow/mia military drawdown

    Sec. 540. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
President may direct the drawdown, without reimbursement by the 
recipient, of defense articles from the stocks of the Department of 
Defense, defense services of the Department of Defense, and military 
education and training, of an aggregate value not to exceed $15,000,000 
in fiscal year 1994, as may be necessary to carry out subsection (b).
    (b) Such defense articles, services and training may be provided to 
Cambodia and Laos, under subsection (a) as the President determines are 
necessary to support efforts to locate and repatriate members of the 
United States Armed Forces and civilians employed directly or indirectly 
by the United States Government who remain unaccounted for from the 
Vietnam War, and to ensure the safety of United States Government 
personnel engaged in such cooperative efforts and to support United 
States Department of Defense-sponsored humanitarian projects associated 
with the POW/MIA efforts. Any aircraft shall be provided under this 
section only to Laos and only on a lease or loan basis, but may be 
provided at no cost notwithstanding section 61 of the Arms Export 
Control Act and may be maintained with defense articles, services and 
training provided under this section.
    (c) The President shall, within sixty days of the end of any fiscal 
year in which the authority of subsection (a) is exercised, submit a 
report to the Congress which identifies the articles, services, and 
training drawn down under this section.
    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President such 
sums as may be necessary to reimburse the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or account for defense articles, defense services, and military 
education and training provided under this section.


                   mediterranean excess defense articles

    Sec. 541. During fiscal year 1994, the provisions of section 573(e) 
of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1990, shall be applicable, for the period specified 
therein, to excess defense articles made available under sections 516 
and 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.


                      priority delivery of equipment

    Sec. 542. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the delivery 
of excess defense articles that are to be transferred on a grant basis 
under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act to NATO allies and to 
major non-NATO allies on the southern and southeastern flank of NATO 
shall be given priority to the maximum extent feasible over the delivery 
of such excess defense articles to other countries.


                              israel drawdown

    Sec. 543. Section 599B(a) of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 (as amended by 
Public Law 102-145, as amended, and Public Law 102-391), is further 
amended--
        (a) by striking out ``fiscal year 1993'' and inserting in lieu 
    thereof ``fiscal year 1994''; and
        (b) by striking out ``Appropriations Act, 1993'' and inserting 
    in lieu thereof ``Appropriations Act, 1994''.


                            cash flow financing

    Sec. 544. For each country that has been approved for cash flow 
financing (as defined in section 25(d) of the Arms Export Control Act, 
as added by section 112(b) of Public Law 99-83) under the Foreign 
Military Financing Program, any Letter of Offer and Acceptance or other 
purchase agreement, or any amendment thereto, for a procurement in 
excess of $100,000,000 that is to be financed in whole or in part with 
funds made available under this Act shall be submitted through the 
regular notification procedures to the Committees on Appropriations.


                                rescissions

    Sec. 545. (a) Of the unexpended balances of funds (including 
earmarked funds) made available for fiscal years 1987 through 1993 to 
carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $203,000,000 are rescinded.
    (b) Of the unexpended balances of funds (including earmarked funds) 
appropriated for fiscal year 1993 and prior fiscal years to carry out 
the provisions of sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, $5,100,000 are rescinded.


  authorities for the peace corps, the inter-american foundation and the 
                     african development foundation

    Sec. 546. Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions of 
this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act, or the African Development Foundation 
Act. The appropriate agency shall promptly report to the Committees on 
Appropriations whenever it is conducting activities or is proposing to 
conduct activities in a country for which assistance is prohibited.


                    impact on jobs in the United States

    Sec. 547. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
        (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise currently 
    located in the United States for the purpose of inducing such an 
    enterprise to relocate outside the United States if such incentive 
    or inducement is likely to reduce the number of employees of such 
    business enterprise in the United States because United States 
    production is being replaced by such enterprise outside the United 
    States;
        (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or developing in 
    a foreign country any export processing zone or designated area in 
    which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, and safety laws of that 
    country do not apply, in part or in whole, to activities carried out 
    within that zone or area, unless the President determines and 
    certifies that such assistance is not likely to cause a loss of jobs 
    within the United States; or
        (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes to 
    the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, as 
    defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of workers in 
    the recipient country, including any designated zone or area in that 
    country: Provided, That in recognition that the application of this 
    subsection should be commensurate with the level of development of 
    the recipient country and sector, the provisions of this subsection 
    shall not preclude assistance for the informal sector in such 
    country, micro and small-scale enterprise, and smallholder 
    agriculture.


                  authority to assist bosnia-hercegovina

    Sec. 548. (a) Congress finds as follows:
        (1) the United Nations has imposed an embargo on the transfer of 
    arms to any country on the territory of the former Yugoslavia;
        (2) the federated states of Serbia and Montenegro have a large 
    supply of military equipment and ammunition and the Serbian forces 
    fighting the government of Bosnia-Hercegovina have more than one 
    thousand battle tanks, armored vehicles, and artillery pieces; and
        (3) because the United Nations arms embargo is serving to 
    sustain the military advantage of the aggressor, the United Nations 
    should exempt the government of Bosnia-Hercegovina from its embargo.
    (b) Pursuant to a lifting of the United Nations arms embargo against 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, the President is authorized to transfer to the 
government of that nation, without reimbursement, defense articles from 
the stocks of the Department of Defense of an aggregate value not to 
exceed $50,000,000 in fiscal year 1994: Provided, That the President 
certifies in a timely fashion to the Congress that--
        (1) the transfer of such articles would assist that nation in 
    self-defense and thereby promote the security and stability of the 
    region; and
        (2) United States allies are prepared to join in such a military 
    assistance effort.
    (c) Within 60 days of any transfer under the authority provided in 
subsection (b), and every 60 days thereafter, the President shall report 
in writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
President pro tempore of the Senate concerning the articles transferred 
and the disposition thereof.
    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President such 
sums as may be necessary to reimburse the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or account for defense articles provided under this section.
    (e) If the President determines that doing so will contribute to a 
just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations of 
international law in the former Yugoslavia, the authority of section 
552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to 
provide up to $25,000,000 of commodities and services to the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination 
required under this subsection shall be in lieu of any determinations 
otherwise required under section 552(c).

                           special authorities

    Sec. 549. (a) Funds appropriated in title II of this Act that are 
made available for Haiti, Afghanistan, Lebanon, and Cambodia, and for 
victims of war, displaced children, displaced Burmese, humanitarian 
assistance for Romania, and humanitarian assistance for the peoples of 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, Croatia, and Kosova, may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law: Provided, That any such 
funds that are made available for Cambodia shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
section 906 of the International Security and Development Cooperation 
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the President shall terminate 
assistance to any Cambodian organization that he determines is 
cooperating, tactically or strategically, with the Khmer Rouge in their 
military operations.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
sections 103 through 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
supporting tropical forestry and energy programs aimed at reducing 
emissions of greenhouse gases with regard to the key countries in which 
deforestation and energy policy would make a significant contribution to 
global warming: Provided, That such assistance shall be subject to 
sections 116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) During fiscal year 1994, the President may use up to $50,000,000 
under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, notwithstanding the funding ceiling contained in subsection (a) of 
that section.


          policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 550. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) since 1948 the Arab countries have maintained a primary 
    boycott against Israel, refusing to do business with Israel;
        (2) since the early 1950s the Arab League has maintained a 
    secondary and tertiary boycott against American and other companies 
    that have commercial ties with Israel;
        (3) the boycott seeks to coerce American firms by blacklisting 
    those that do business with Israel and harm America's 
    competitiveness;
        (4) the United States has a longstanding policy opposing the 
    Arab League boycott and United States law prohibits American firms 
    from providing information to Arab countries to demonstrate 
    compliance with the boycott;
        (5) with real progress being made in the Middle East peace 
    process and the serious confidence-building measures taken by the 
    State of Israel an end to the Arab boycott of Israel and of American 
    companies that have commercial ties with Israel is long overdue and 
    would represent a significant confidence-building measure; and
        (6) in the interest of Middle East peace and free commerce, the 
    President must take more concrete steps to press the Arab states to 
    end their practice of blacklisting and boycotting American companies 
    that have trade ties with Israel.
    (b) Policy.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and publicly 
    renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the secondary and 
    tertiary boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
    Israel and
        (2) the President should--
            (A) take more concrete steps to encourage vigorously Arab 
        League countries to renounce publicly the primary boycotts of 
        Israel and the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
        that have commercial relations with Israel as a confidence-
        building measure;
            (B) take into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms that have 
        commercial relations with Israel when determining whether to 
        sell weapons to said country;
            (C) report to Congress on the specific steps being taken by 
        the President to bring about a public renunciation of the Arab 
        primary boycott of Israel and the secondary and tertiary 
        boycotts of American firms that have commercial relations with 
        Israel; and
            (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of the United 
        States to enact laws prohibiting businesses from complying with 
        the boycott and penalizing businesses that do comply.

                        ANTI-NARCOTICS ACTIVITIES

    Sec. 551. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided as 
follows:
        (1) To strengthen the administration of justice in countries in 
    Latin America and the Caribbean in accordance with the provisions of 
    section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that 
    programs to enhance protection of participants in judicial cases may 
    be conducted notwithstanding section 660 of that Act.
        (2) Notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
    1961, up to $6,000,000 may be made available for technical 
    assistance, training, and commodities with the objective of creating 
    a professional civilian police force for Panama, and for programs to 
    improve penal institutions and the rehabilitation of offenders in 
    Panama (which programs may be conducted other than through 
    multilateral or regional institutions), except that such technical 
    assistance shall not include more than $3,000,000 for the 
    procurement of equipment for law enforcement purposes, and shall not 
    include lethal equipment.
    (b) Funds made available pursuant to this section may be made 
available notwithstanding the third sentence of section 534(e) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Funds made available pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1) for Bolivia, Colombia and Peru and subsection (a)(2) 
may be made available notwithstanding section 534(c) and the second 
sentence of section 534(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                       ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE

    Sec. 552. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 and 
10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That the 
President shall take into consideration, in any case in which a 
restriction on assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, 
whether assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental 
organizations is in the national interest of the United States: Provided 
further, That before using the authority of this subsection to furnish 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the 
President shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the 
regular notification procedures of those committees, including a 
description of the program to be assisted, the assistance to be 
provided, and the reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided 
further, That nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter any 
existing statutory prohibitions against abortion or involuntary 
sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 1994, restrictions contained 
in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a country shall 
not be construed to restrict assistance under titles I and II of the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and 
made available pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended 
except as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
        (1) with respect to section 529 of this Act or any comparable 
    provision of law prohibiting assistance to countries that support 
    international terrorism; or
        (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
    1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance to 
    countries that violate internationally recognized human rights.

                                EARMARKS

    Sec. 553. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked may 
be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States, the 
President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other Act 
shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the Administrator of 
such agency determines and reports promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a country or a 
significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that such 
earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.


                           CEILINGS AND EARMARKS

    Sec. 554. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so directs.

                         EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES

    Sec. 555. The authority of section 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, may be used in fiscal year 1994 to provide 
nonlethal excess defense articles to countries for which United States 
foreign assistance has been requested and for which receipt of such 
articles was separately justified for the fiscal year, without regard to 
the restrictions in subsection (a) of section 519.


                         real property management

    Sec. 556. Any funds remaining in the Acquisition of Property 
Revolving Fund administered by the Agency for International Development 
may be transferred to, and consolidated and merged with, funds in the 
Property Management Fund established pursuant to section 585 of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-513).


                  PROHIBITION ON PUBLICITY OR PROPAGANDA

    Sec. 557. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of enactment of this Act by the Congress.


                         DISADVANTAGED ENTERPRISES

    Sec. 558. (a) Except to the extent that the Administrator of the 
Agency for International Development determines otherwise, not less than 
10 percent of the aggregate amount made available for the current fiscal 
year for the ``Development Assistance Fund'', ``Population, Development 
Assistance'', and the ``Development Fund for Africa'' shall be made 
available only for activities of United States organizations and 
individuals that are--
        (1) business concerns owned and controlled by socially and 
    economically disadvantaged individuals,
        (2) historically black colleges and universities,
        (3) colleges and universities having a student body in which 
    more than 40 per centum of the students are Hispanic American, and
        (4) private voluntary organizations which are controlled by 
    individuals who are socially and economically disadvantaged.
    (b)(1) In addition to other actions taken to carry out this section, 
the actions described in paragraphs (2) through (5) shall be taken with 
respect to development assistance and assistance for sub-Saharan Africa 
for the current fiscal year.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in order to achieve 
the goals of this section, the Administrator--
        (A) to the maximum extent practicable, shall utilize the 
    authority of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    637(a));
        (B) to the maximum extent practicable, shall enter into 
    contracts with small business concerns owned and controlled by 
    socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and 
    organizations contained in paragraphs (2) through (4) of subsection 
    (a)--
            (i) using less than full and open competitive procedures 
        under such terms and conditions as the Administrator deems 
        appropriate, and
            (ii) using an administrative system for justifications and 
        approvals that, in the Administrator's discretion, may best 
        achieve the purpose of this section; and
        (C) shall issue regulations to require that any contract in 
    excess of $500,000 contain a provision requiring that no less than 
    10 per centum of the dollar value of the contract be subcontracted 
    to entities described in subsection (a), except--
            (i) to the extent the Administrator determines otherwise on 
        a case-by-case or category-of-contract basis; and
            (ii) this subparagraph does not apply to any prime 
        contractor that is an entity described in subsection (a).
    (3) Each person with contracting authority who is attached to the 
Agency's headquarters in Washington, as well as all Agency missions and 
regional offices, shall notify the Agency's Office of Small and 
Disadvantaged Business Utilization at least seven business days before 
advertising a contract in excess of $100,000, except to the extent that 
the Administrator determines otherwise on a case-by-case or category-of-
contract basis.
    (4) The Administrator shall include, as part of the performance 
evaluation of any mission director of the agency, the mission director's 
efforts to carry out this section.
    (5) The Administrator shall submit to the Congress annual reports on 
the implementation of this section. Each such report shall specify the 
number and dollar value or amount (as the case may be) of prime 
contracts, subcontracts, grants, and cooperative agreements awarded to 
entities described in subsection (a) during the preceding fiscal year.
    (c) As used in this section, the term ``socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals'' has the same meaning that term is given for 
purposes of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act, except that the term 
includes women.


                         USE OF AMERICAN RESOURCES

    Sec. 559. To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided under 
this Act and title VI should make full use of American resources, 
including commodities, products, and services.


   assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 560. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet 
Union'', and funds appropriated by the Supplemental Appropriations for 
the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union Act, 1993, should 
be allocated for economic assistance and for related programs as 
follows:
        (1) $893,820,000 for the purpose of private sector development, 
    including through the support of bilateral and multilateral 
    enterprise funds, technical assistance and training, agribusiness 
    programs and agricultural credit, financing and technical assistance 
    for small and medium private enterprises, and privatization efforts.
        (2) $125,000,000 for the purpose of a special privatization and 
    restructuring fund: Provided, That the United States contribution 
    for such fund shall not exceed one-quarter of the aggregate amount 
    being made available for such fund by all countries.
        (3) $185,000,000 for the purpose of enhancing trade with and 
    investment in the New Independent States of the former Soviet Union, 
    including through energy and environment commodity import 
    assistance, costs of loans and loan guarantees and the provision of 
    trade and investment technical assistance.
        (4) $295,000,000 for the purpose of enhancing democratic 
    initiatives, including through the support of a comprehensive 
    program of exchanges and training, assistance designed to foster the 
    rule of law, and encouragement of independent media.
        (5) $190,000,000 for the purpose of supporting troop withdrawal, 
    including through the support of an officer resettlement program, 
    and technical assistance for the housing sector.
        (6) $285,000,000 for the purpose of supporting the energy and 
    environment sectors, including such programs as nuclear reactor 
    safety, and technical assistance to foster the efficiency and 
    privatization of the energy sector and making that sector more 
    environmentally responsible.
        (7) $239,000,000 for humanitarian assistance purposes, including 
    to provide vaccines and medicines for vulnerable populations, to 
    assist in the establishment of a sustainable pharmaceutical 
    industry, to provide food assistance, and to meet other urgent 
    humanitarian needs.
    (b) With respect to funds allocated under subsection (a) of this 
section, notifications provided under section 515 of this Act shall 
reflect the categories listed in subsection (a): Provided, That the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be consulted with respect to the 
submission of notifications which would cause any category to exceed the 
allocation reflected in subsection (a).
    (c) Funds made available in this Act for assistance to the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be provided to the 
maximum extent feasible through the private sector, including private 
voluntary organizations and nongovernmental organizations functioning in 
the New Independent States.
    (d) Of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act, not less 
than $300,000,000 should be made available for Ukraine.
    (e) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be transferred 
to the Government of Russia--
        (1) unless that Government is making progress in implementing 
    comprehensive economic reforms based on market principles, private 
    ownership, negotiating repayment of commercial debt, respect for 
    commercial contracts, and equitable treatment of foreign private 
    investment; and
        (2) if that Government applies or transfers United States 
    assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or seizing 
    ownership or control of assets, investments, or ventures.
    (f) Funds may be furnished without regard to subsection (e) if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (g) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
available to any government of the New Independent States of the former 
Soviet Union if that government directs any action in violation of the 
territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any other New 
Independent State, such as those violations included in Principle Six of 
the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be made available 
without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the President 
determines that to do so is in the national interest of the United 
States: Provided further, That the restriction of this subsection shall 
not apply to the use of such funds for the provision of assistance for 
purposes of humanitarian, disaster and refugee relief: Provided further, 
That thirty days after the date of enactment of this Act, and then 
annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the governments of the 
New Independent States concerning violations referred to in this 
subsection: Provided further, That in preparing this report the 
Secretary shall consult with the United States Representative to the 
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
    (h) None of the funds appropriated by this Act for the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be made available 
for any state to enhance its military capability: Provided, That this 
restriction does not apply to demilitarization, defense conversion or 
non-proliferation programs, or programs conducted under subsection 
(a)(5) of this section.


                        andean narcotics initiative

    Sec. 561. None of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'' may be made available for the Andean Narcotics Initiative 
until the Secretary of State consults with, and provides a new Andean 
counter-narcotics strategy (including budget estimates) to, the 
Committees on Appropriations.


                  limitations on assistance for nicaragua

    Sec. 562. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available to the 
Government of Nicaragua until the Secretary of State determines and 
reports in writing to the appropriate committees that--
        (1) there has been a full and independent investigation 
    conducted relating to issues raised by the discovery, after the May 
    23 explosion in Managua, of weapons caches, false passports, 
    identity papers and other documents, suggesting the existence of a 
    terrorist/kidnapping ring; and
        (2) any individuals identified by the investigation cited in 
    paragraph (1) as being part of such ring, including all government 
    officials (including any members of the armed forces or security 
    forces) are being prosecuted.
    (b) In addition to subsection (a), funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' may only be made available 
to the Government of Nicaragua upon the notification, in writing, by the 
Secretary of State to the appropriate committees that he has determined 
that significant and tangible progress is being made by the Government 
of Nicaragua toward--
        (1) the resolution of expropriation claims and the effective 
    compensation of legitimate claims;
        (2) the timely implementation of recommendations made by the 
    Tripartite Commission as it undertakes to review and identify those 
    responsible for gross human rights violations, including the 
    expeditious prosecution of individuals identified by the commission 
    in connection with such violations;
        (3) the enactment into law of legislation to reform the 
    Nicaraguan military and security forces in order to guarantee 
    civilian control over the armed forces;
        (4) the establishment of civilian control over the police, and 
    the independence of the police from the military; and
        (5) the effective reform of the Nicaraguan judicial system.
    (c) The notification pursuant to subsection (b) shall include a 
detailed listing of the tangible evidence that forms the basis for such 
determination.
    (d) For purposes of this section, the term ``appropriate 
committees'' means the Committees on Foreign Relations and 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Foreign Affairs and 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.


                    limitations on assistance for haiti

    Sec. 563. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other 
Act, none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated or 
expended for the purpose of military-related civic action programs, 
police training, or military training for Haiti--
        (1) prior to October 30, 1993, unless such programs or training 
    constitutes an integral part of a United Nations-sponsored, 
    multilateral initiative in furtherance of the implementation of the 
    Governor's Island Accords, signed on July 3, 1993; and
        (2) on or after October 30, 1993, in order to strengthen 
    civilian control over the military and to establish an independent 
    civilian police force, without the concurrence of the duly-elected 
    President of Haiti.
    (b) Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other Act, none of 
the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to provide military 
assistance or military training to any member of the Haitian Armed 
Forces who the Secretary of State knows or has reason to believe, based 
on all credible information available to him--
        (1) is or has been an illicit trafficker in any narcotic or 
    psychotropic drug or other controlled substance, or is or has been a 
    knowing assistor, abettor, conspirator, or colluder with others in 
    the illicit trafficking in any such substance; or
        (2) is or has participated in gross violations of 
    internationally recognized human rights.


   agricultural aid to the new independent states of the former soviet 
                                  union

    Sec. 564. Of the funds appropriated by titles II and VI of this Act 
under the headings ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the 
Former Soviet Union'' and ``Operations and Maintenance, Defense 
Agencies'', up to $50,000,000 should be made available only for 
provision of United States agricultural commodities to address the food 
and nutrition needs of the people of the new independent states of the 
former Soviet Union: Provided, That in providing assistance under this 
section, primary emphasis shall be given to meeting the food and 
nutrition needs of children and pregnant and post-partum women: Provided 
further, That funds made available for the purposes of this section may 
be used for transportation of United States agricultural commodities 
provided under this section: Provided further, That the President may 
enter into agreements with the governments of the new independent states 
and nongovernmental organizations to provide for the sale of any part of 
the United States agricultural commodities in the new independent states 
for local currencies: Provided further, That any such local currencies 
shall be used in the new independent states to process, transport, 
store, distribute or otherwise enhance the effectiveness of the use of 
United States agricultural commodities provided under this section, and 
to support agricultural and rural development activities.


                    humanitarian assistance for armenia

    Sec. 565. Of the funds appropriated by titles II and VI of this Act 
(1) to carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and (2) under the 
headings ``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former 
Soviet Union'' and ``Operations and Maintenance, Defense Agencies'', 
$18,000,000 should be made available for urgent humanitarian assistance 
for Armenia.


             prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 566. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations.


                            consulting services

    Sec. 567. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing law.


              private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 568. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization which 
fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or record 
necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for International 
Development, nor shall any of the funds appropriated by this Act be made 
available to any private voluntary organization which is not registered 
with the Agency for International Development.


                      chemical weapons proliferation

    Sec. 569. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
finance the procurement of chemicals, dual use chemicals, or chemical 
agents that may be used for chemical weapons production: Provided, That 
the provisions of this section shall not apply to any such procurement 
if the President determines that such chemicals, dual use chemicals, or 
chemical agents are not intended to be used by the recipient for 
chemical weapons production.


                    special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 570. (a)(1) Authority To Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
        (A) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961; or
        (B) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms Export 
    Control Act.
    (2) Limitations.--
        (A) The authority provided by paragraph (1) may be exercised 
    only to implement multilateral official debt relief and referendum 
    agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club Agreed Minutes''.
        (B) The authority provided by paragraph (1) may be exercised 
    only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided in advance by 
    appropriations Acts.
        (C) The authority provided by paragraph (1) may be exercised 
    only with respect to countries with heavy debt burdens that are 
    eligible to borrow from the International Development Association, 
    but not from the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
    Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-only'' countries.
    (3) Conditions.--The authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
        (A) does not have an excessive level of military expenditures;
        (B) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
    international terrorism;
        (C) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
    control matters; and
        (D) (including its military or other security forces) does not 
    engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
    internationally recognized human rights.
    (4) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by paragraph (1) 
may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Debt Restructuring''.
    (5) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt pursuant 
to paragraph (1) shall not be considered assistance for purposes of any 
provision of law limiting assistance to a country.
    (b) Special Debt Relief for the Poorest, Most Heavily Indebted 
Countries.--The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635-635i-3) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 11. SPECIAL DEBT RELIEF FOR THE POOREST, MOST HEAVILY INDEBTED 
              COUNTRIES.

    ``(a) Debt Reduction Authority.--The President may reduce amounts of 
principle and interest owed by any eligible country to the Bank as a 
result of loans or guarantees made under this Act.
    ``(b) Limitations.--
        ``(1) Types of debt reduction.--The authority provided by 
    subsection (a) may be exercised only to implement multilateral 
    agreements to reduce the burden of official bilateral debt as set 
    forth in the minutes of the so-called `Paris Club' (also known as 
    `Paris Club Agreed Minutes').
        ``(2) Eligible countries.--
            ``(A) Definition.--As used in subsection (a), the term 
        `eligible country' means any country that--
                ``(i) has excessively burdensome external debt;
                ``(ii) is eligible to borrow from the International 
            Development Association; and
                ``(iii) is not eligible to borrow from the International 
            Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
            ``(B) Determinations.--Subject to subparagraph (A), the 
        President may determine whether a country is an eligible country 
        for purposes of subsection (a).
    ``(c) Conditions.--The authority provided by this section may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
        ``(1) does not have an excessive level of military expenditures;
        ``(2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
    international terrorism;
        ``(3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
    control matters; and
        ``(4) (including its military or other security forces) does not 
    engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
    internationally recognized human rights.
    ``(d) Appropriations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may 
be exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided in 
advance in appropriations Acts.''.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President should seriously consider requesting debt reduction funds 
sufficient to provide debt reduction to eligible countries in accordance 
with the so-called ``Trinidad Terms''.


                                guarantees

    Sec. 571. Section 251(b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by inserting after subparagraph 
(2)(F) the following new subparagraph:
    ``(G) Net Guarantee Costs.--The net costs for fiscal year 1994 of 
the appropriation made under section 601 of Public Law 102-391 are not 
subject to the discretionary spending limits or the Appropriations 
Committee's Foreign Operations Subcommittee's 602(b) allocation in 
fiscal year 1994.''.


         foreign military financing direct commercial sales policy

    Sec. 572. The Secretary of Defense shall not implement changes in 
longstanding policy allowing use of Foreign Military Financing for 
direct commercial sales unless and until all parties affected by any 
such changes have been fully consulted and given opportunity for input 
into any such policy changes.
    In this process the Secretary of Defense shall also consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committees on Armed 
Services, and the relevant agencies or departments of the Executive 
Branch.


   PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS THAT EXPORT LETHAL 
   MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO COUNTRIES SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM

    Sec. 573. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal military 
equipment provided under a contract entered into after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of the 
United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.


   withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 574. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a foreign 
country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an amount 
equivalent to 110 percent of the total unpaid fully adjudicated parking 
fines and penalties owed to the District of Columbia by such country as 
of the date of enactment of this Act shall be withheld from obligation 
for such country until the Secretary of State certifies and reports in 
writing to the appropriate congressional committees that such fines and 
penalties are fully paid to the government of the District of Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives.


                 ukraine/russia stabilization partnerships

    Sec. 575. Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' 
and ``Operations and Maintenance, Defense Agencies'', and allocated 
under section 560(a) paragraphs (1) and (6), $35,000,000 should be made 
available for a program of cooperation between scientific and 
engineering institutes in the New Independent States of the former 
Soviet Union and national laboratories and other qualified academic 
institutions in the United States designed to stabilize the technology 
base in the cooperating states as each strives to convert defense 
industries to civilian applications: Provided, That priority be assigned 
to programs in support of international agreements that prevent and 
reduce proliferation of weapons of mass destruction: Provided further, 
That the President may enter into agreements involving private United 
States industry that include cost share arrangements where feasible: 
Provided further, That the President may participate in programs that 
enhance the safety of power reactors: Provided further, That the 
intellectual property rights of all parties to a program of cooperation 
be protected: Provided further, That funds made available by this 
section may be reallocated in accordance with the authority of section 
560(b) of this Act.

                       russian assistance to cuba

    Sec. 576. Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Assistance for the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' 
and ``Operations and Maintenance, Defense Agencies'', $380,000,000 shall 
not be available for obligation for Russia unless the President 
certifies on April 1, 1994, that the Government of Russia has not 
provided assistance to Cuba during the preceding eighteen months: 
Provided, That funds may be furnished without regard to the provisions 
of this section if the President determines that to do so is in the 
national interest.


                   Restriction on Assistance for Russia

    Sec. 577. (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act (other than funds to carry out 
humanitarian assistance) may be available in any fiscal year for Russia 
unless the President has certified to the Congress not more than 6 
months in advance of the obligation or expenditure of such funds that--
        (1) the Government of Russia and the Governments of Latvia and 
    Estonia have established a timetable for the withdrawal of the armed 
    forces of Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, and all 
    parties are complying with such timetable; or
        (2) Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States continue 
    to make substantial progress toward the withdrawal of their armed 
    forces from Latvia and Estonia.
    (b) Termination of Certification Requirement.--Subsection (a) shall 
remain in force until the President certifies to the Congress that all 
of the armed forces of Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States 
have withdrawn from Latvia and Estonia or that the status of those armed 
forces has been otherwise resolved by mutual agreement of the parties.


                    Middle East Peace Facilitation Act

    Sec. 578. (a) Until February 15, 1994, the President shall have the 
authority to waive section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act, as 
amended, with respect to the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), 
programs for the PLO, and programs for the benefit of entities 
associated with it, which accept the commitments made by the PLO on 
September 9, 1993: Provided, That before exercising this authority, the 
President shall consult with the relevant committees of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives: Provided further, That the President 
determines, and notifies Congress that to do so is in the national 
interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall cease to have effect if at any time prior 
to February 15, 1994, the President determines and so notifies Congress 
that the PLO has ceased to comply with the commitments it made on 
September 9, 1993, or the Congress, by joint resolution, determines that 
the PLO has ceased to comply with the commitments it made on September 
9, 1993.


                              russian reform

    Sec. 579. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) President Yeltsin has consistently tried to push forward 
    economic and political reform;
        (2) President Yeltsin was given a mandate by the Russian people 
    to hold elections and continue the process of economic reform;
        (3) Boris Yeltsin is the first and only popularly elected 
    president of Russia, and the parliament of Russia is a holdover from 
    the Soviet regime;
        (4) the conservative parliament has consistently impeded 
    political and economic progress in Russia;
        (5) slow progress on economic reform has prompted the IMF to 
    review its disbursement of Russia's second tranche from the Systemic 
    Transformation Facility;
        (6) political and economic reform has been impeded by the 
    actions of the hardline parliament; and
        (7) corruption is rampant and is impeding economic and political 
    reform and must be vigorously and effectively combated.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the Congress supports President Yeltsin in his effort to 
    continue the reform process in Russia, including his call for new 
    parliamentary elections consistent with the results of the April 25, 
    1993 referendum; and
        (2) further United States Government economic assistance should 
    be provided in accordance with President Yeltsin's call for the 
    holding of free, fair, and democratic parliamentary elections.
    Titles I through V of this Act may be cited as the ``Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1994''.

         TITLE VI--FISCAL YEAR 1993 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1993, and for other purposes, namely:


                    funds appropriated to the president

   assistance for the new independent states of the former soviet union

    For an additional amount for the ``Assistance for the new 
independent states of the former Soviet Union'' and for related 
programs, $630,000,000, to be available upon enactment and to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $500,000,000 may be 
made available for a special privatization and restructuring fund: 
Provided, That the United States contribution for such fund shall not 
exceed one-quarter of the aggregate amount being made available for such 
fund by all countries: Provided further, That the provisions of section 
498B(j) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall apply to funds 
appropriated by this paragraph.

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                        Operation and Maintenance


                Operation and Maintenance, Defense Agencies

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Defense 
Agencies'', $979,000,000, to be available upon enactment and to remain 
available until September 30, 1994: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Defense may transfer such funds to other appropriations available to the 
Department of Defense for the purposes of providing assistance to the 
new independent states of the former Soviet Union: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense may transfer such funds to appropriations 
available to the Department of State and other agencies of the United 
States Government for the purposes of providing assistance and related 
programs for the new independent states of the former Soviet Union for 
programs that the President determines will increase the national 
security of the United States: Provided further, That the amounts 
transferred shall be available subject to the same terms and conditions 
as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided further, That the 
authority to make transfers pursuant to this provision is in addition to 
any other transfer authority of the Department of Defense.
    This title may be cited as the ``Supplemental Appropriations for the 
New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union Act, 1993''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.