[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4539 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4539

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and 
for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                  TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel 
expenses; not to exceed $3,101,000 to remain available until September 
30, 1997, shall be available for information technology modernization 
requirements; of which not less than $6,443,000 and 85 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be available for enforcement activities; not 
to exceed $150,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential 
nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction of the 
Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his 
certificate; not to exceed $490,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997, for repairs and improvements to the Main Treasury 
Building and Annex; $104,479,000: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $79,000 are permanently canceled.

                      Office of Inspector General


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,000,000 for 
official travel expenses; not to exceed $100,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended 
under the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury; 
$29,700,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $4,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $19,823,000: Provided, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $1,000 are 
permanently canceled.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund


                 (limitation of availability of deposits)

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as 
authorized by Public Law 102-393, not to exceed $15,000,000, to be 
derived from deposits in the Fund.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed fifty-two for police-type use) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related 
activities; uniforms without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year; the conducting of and 
participating in firearms matches and presentation of awards; for 
public awareness and enhancing community support of law enforcement 
training; not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; room and board for student interns; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That the Center is 
authorized to accept and use gifts of property, both real and personal, 
and to accept services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a 
gift of intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director 
of the Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic 
training program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which 
shall be funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift 
authority: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided 
housing, insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be 
available for training United States Postal Service law enforcement 
personnel and Postal police officers, at the discretion of the 
Director; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; training of private sector security officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend State 
and local course development meetings at the Center: Provided further, 
That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of 
reimbursements from agencies receiving training at the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, except that total obligations at the end 
of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources available 
at the end of the fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide first-aid and 
emergency medical services for students undergoing training at the 
Center; $46,713,000, of which $8,821,000 for materials and support 
costs of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain available 
until September 30, 1997.


      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$16,815,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$183,889,000, of which not to exceed $13,459,000 shall remain available 
until expended for systems modernization initiatives. In addition, 
$90,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to 
reimburse the Service for administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380: Provided, That of the offsetting collections 
credited to this account, $192,000 are permanently canceled.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed six hundred and fifty 
vehicles for police-type use for replacement only and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; and services of expert witnesses at 
such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per 
diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to 
the National Response Team during the investigation of a bombing or 
arson incident requires an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or 
to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed $10,000 
for official reception and representation expenses; for training of 
State and local law enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement; 
provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or 
without reimbursement; of which $22,000,000 shall be available solely 
for the enforcement of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act during 
fiscal year 1995; $385,315,000, of which no less than $134,847,000 and 
1,140 full-time equivalent positions shall be available for enforcing 
the Armed Career Criminal Act,  of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall 
be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 
U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for 
official use by a State or local law enforcement agency if the 
conveyance will be used in drug-related joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, and 
other similar costs of State and local law enforcement officers that 
are incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein 
shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and act upon 
applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. section 925(c): Provided further, That no 
funds made available by this or any other Act may be used to implement 
any reorganization of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms or 
transfer of the Bureau's functions, missions, or activities to other 
agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 
1995: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be 
available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection with 
consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the Treasury, 
the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of 
firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $4,000 are 
permanently canceled: Provided further, That funds made available shall 
be used to achieve a minimum staffing level of 4,215 full-time 
equivalent positions during fiscal year 1995.

                     United States Customs Service


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase of up to 1,000 motor vehicles of which 960 are for 
replacement only, including 990 for police-type use and commercial 
operations; hire of motor vehicles; not to exceed $20,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and awards of compensation to 
informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the United States 
Customs Service; $1,394,793,000, of which such sums as become available 
in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to section 
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1985, as 
amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that Account; of 
the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for 
rental space in connection with preclearance operations, and not to 
exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research: 
Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided 
further, That $750,000 shall be available for additional part-time and 
temporary positions in the Honolulu Customs District: Provided further, 
That $10,000,000 shall be available for the Center for Study of Western 
Hemispheric Trade as authorized by Public Law 103-182: Provided 
further, That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, 
$410,000 are permanently canceled: Provided further, That Customs shall 
achieve a minimum full-time equivalent staffing level of 17,524 during 
fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That $500,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the construction of a replacement fence 
within the city limits of Nogales, Arizona under the authority of 
section 69, title 19, United States Code.


     Operation and Maintenance, Air and Marine Interdiction Programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other 
related equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational 
training and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities 
occupied by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction 
programs; $89,041,000, of which $7,233,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 1997: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and 
has been identified as excess to Customs requirements, and aircraft 
which has been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other 
Federal agency, Department, or office outside of the Department of the 
Treasury, during fiscal year 1995, without the prior approval of the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.


   Customs Facilities, Construction, Improvements and Related Expenses

    For acquisition of necessary additional real property, facilities, 
construction, improvements, and related expenses of the United States 
Customs Service, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   customs services at small airports


                   (to be derived from fees collected)

    Such sums as may be necessary, not to exceed $1,406,000, for 
expenses for the provision of Customs services at certain small 
airports or other facilities when authorized by law and designated by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, including expenditures for the salary 
and expenses of individuals employed to provide such services, to be 
derived from fees collected by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant 
to section 236 of Public Law 98-573 for each of these airports or other 
facilities when authorized by law and designated by the Secretary of 
the Treasury, and to remain available until expended.

                           United States Mint


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Mint; $55,740,000, of 
which $1,540,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1997, for 
expansion and improvements.

                       Bureau of the Public Debt


                      Administering the Public Debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States; $183,458,000: Provided, That in fiscal year 1995 and 
thereafter, the Secretary is authorized to collect fees of not less 
than $46 for each definitive security issue provided to customers, and 
an annual maintenance fee of not less than $25 for each Treasury Direct 
Investor Account exceeding $100,000 in par value: Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, of the definitive security 
fees collected, not to exceed $600,000, and of the annual maintenance 
fees for Treasury Direct Investor Account collected, not to exceed 
$2,500,000, shall be retained and used in the current fiscal year for 
the specific purpose of offsetting costs of Bureau of the Public Debt's 
marketable security activities, and any fees collected in excess of 
said amounts shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the 
Treasury: Provided further, That the sum appropriated herein from the 
General Fund for fiscal year 1995 shall be reduced by not more than 
$600,000 as definitive security issue fees are collected and not more 
than $2,500,000 as Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance fees 
are collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1995 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $180,358,000.


                 payment of government losses in shipment

    Beginning in fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, there are 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to make payments for the 
replacement of valuables, or the value thereof, lost, destroyed, or 
damaged in the course of shipments effected pursuant to section 1 of 
the Government Losses in Shipment Act, as amended.

                        Internal Revenue Service


                      Administration and Management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; management services, and inspection; including 
purchase (not to exceed 125 for replacement only, for police-type use) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner; $225,632,000, of which not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses.


                  processing tax returns and assistance

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; including processing tax returns; revenue 
accounting; providing assistance to taxpayers; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
$1,511,266,000, of which $3,700,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for 
the Elderly Program, no amount of which shall be available for IRS 
administrative costs.


                           tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; tax and enforcement 
litigation; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; investigation and enforcement activities; securing 
unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; statistics of income 
and compliance research; the purchase (for police-type use, not to 
exceed 600, of which not to exceed 450 shall be for replacement only), 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner: Provided, That additional amounts above fiscal year 
1994 levels for international tax enforcement shall be used for the 
continued operation of a task force comprised of senior Internal 
Revenue Service Attorneys, accountants, and economists dedicated to 
enforcement activities related to United States subsidiaries of 
foreign-controlled corporations that are in non-compliance with the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; $4,385,459,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1997 for 
research: Provided further, That the $405,000,000 made available for 
the fiscal year 1995 tax compliance initiative shall not be expended 
for any other purposes: Provided further, That no funds shall be 
transferred from this account during fiscal year 1995.


                           information systems

    For necessary expenses for data processing and telecommunications 
support for Internal Revenue Service activities, including: tax systems 
modernization (modernized developmental systems), modernized 
operational systems, services and compliance, and support systems; and 
for the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner: $1,388,000,000 of which no less than 
$650,000,000 shall be available for tax systems modernization, of which 
up to $185,000,000 for tax and information systems development projects 
shall remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated for tax systems modernization may be obligated 
until the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate on the 
implementation of Tax Systems Modernization.


           administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Section 1. Not to exceed 4 per centum of any appropriation made 
available to the Internal Revenue Service for the current fiscal year 
by this Act may be transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, the Internal Revenue Service is authorized to 
transfer such sums as may be necessary between appropriations with 
advance approval of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees: 
Provided further, That no funds shall be transferred from the ``Tax Law 
Enforcement'' account during fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 2. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and maintain a 
training program to insure that Internal Revenue Service employees are 
trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the 
taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.
    Sec. 3. The Secretary of the Treasury may establish new fees or 
raise existing fees for services provided by the Internal Revenue 
Service to increase receipts, where such fees are authorized by another 
law. The Secretary of the Treasury may spend the new or increased fee 
receipts to supplement appropriations made available to the Internal 
Revenue Service appropriations accounts in fiscal years 1995 and 
thereafter: Provided, That the SecretaryP shall base such fees on the 
costs of providing specified services to persons paying such fees: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide quarterly reports to 
the Congress on the collection of such fees and how they are being 
expended by the Service: Provided further, That the total expenditures 
from such fees shall not exceed $119,000,000.

                      United States Secret Service


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase (not to exceed three hundred and forty-three 
vehicles for police-type use for replacement only) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance 
requested by State and local governments, which may be provided without 
reimbursement; services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be 
determined by the Director; rental of buildings in the District of 
Columbia, and fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on 
private or other property not in Government ownership or control, as 
may be necessary to perform protective functions; for payment of per 
diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a protective 
assignment during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee 
require an employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at 
his or her post of duty; the conducting of and participating in 
firearms matches; presentation of awards; and for travel of Secret 
Service employees on protective missions without regard to the 
limitations on such expenditures in this or any other Act: Provided, 
That approval is obtained in advance from the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations; for repairs, alterations, and minor 
construction at the James J. Rowley Secret Service Training Center; for 
research and development; for making grants to conduct behavioral 
research in support of protective research and operations; not to 
exceed $12,500 for official reception and representation expenses; not 
to exceed $50,000 to provide technical assistance and equipment to 
foreign law enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; 
for payment in advance for commercial accommodations as may be 
necessary to perform protective functions; and for uniforms without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year; $476,931,000: Provided further, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $43,000 are permanently canceled.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Section 101. Of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
the Internal Revenue Service, amounts attributable to efficiency 
savings for fiscal year 1995 shall be identified as such by the 
Commissioner during that fiscal year: Provided, That in the fiscal year 
when the savings are realized, the amount of efficiency savings shall 
be non-recurred from the Internal Revenue Service budget base: Provided 
further, That on an annual basis, the Internal Revenue Service shall 
report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees on the status 
of the program.
    Sec. 102. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1995, shall be made in compliance with the 
reprogramming guidelines contained in the House and Senate reports 
accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations to the Treasury Department in this Act 
shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; 
purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in foreign 
countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for vehicles purchased and used overseas for 
the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the Department of 
State for the furnishing of health and medical services to employees 
and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 104. Not to exceed 2 per centum of any appropriations in this 
Act for the Department of the Treasury may be transferred between such 
appropriations. Notwithstanding any authority to transfer funds between 
appropriations contained in this or any other Act, no transfer may 
increase or decrease any appropriation in this Act by more than 2 per 
centum and any such proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning in 
fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, the Financial Management Service (FMS) 
shall be reimbursed, for postage incurred by FMS to make check payments 
on their behalf, by: the Department of Veterans Affairs, for the 
mailing of Compensation and Pension benefit payments; the Department of 
Health and Human Services, for the mailing of Supplemental Security 
Income payments; and the Office of Personnel Management, for the 
mailing of Retirement payments. Such reimbursement shall be due 
beginning with checks mailed on October 1, 1994, and such reimbursement 
shall occur on a monthly basis.
    Sec. 106. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the 
Department of the Treasury during fiscal year 1995, $33,437,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall allocate the amount of 
budgetary resources canceled among the Department's accounts available 
for procurement and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in each such account shall 
be reduced by the amount allocated to such account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
used in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax 
imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of 
officers and employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection 
with such collection complies with subsection (a) of section 805 
(relating to communications in connection with debt collection), and 
section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the Fair Debt 
Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 108. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute policies and 
procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer 
information.
    Sec. 109. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1995 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 110. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall implement the 
plan announced by the Bureau of the Public Debt on March 19, 1991, to 
consolidate such Bureau's operations in Parkersburg, West Virginia.
    (b) The consolidation referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
completed by December 31, 1995, in accordance with the plan of the 
Bureau of the Public Debt.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Customs 
personnel funded through reimbursement from the Puerto Rico Trust Fund 
shall not be reduced as the result of workforce reductions required 
under Executive order or other guidance to Executive branch agencies in 
fiscal year 1995 and hereafter.
    Sec. 112. Subsection (a) of section 9703 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (a) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and (J) of paragraph (2) 
    as (I) and (J) of paragraph (1), respectively; and
        (b) by redesignating in paragraph (2) subparagraphs (H) and (I) 
    as subparagraphs (G) and (H), respectively.
    Sec. 113. (a) The Director of the United States Secret Service 
shall direct and apply appropriate agency personnel and resources for 
the purpose of conducting a security survey of the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing.
    (b) Such security survey shall include a review of all general 
security provisions, including--
        (1) the security and safeguarding of currency;
        (2) personnel screening and employee background check 
    procedures;
        (3) access control and identification procedures;
        (4) the security and safeguarding of currency materials, 
    supplies and related items; and
        (5) other security areas of concern as deemed relevant and 
    appropriate by the agency.
    (c) The Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the Federal agencies 
which participated in any investigations or arrest of person(s) for 
theft of currency from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing are 
directed to--
        (1) provide any assistance and cooperation to the United States 
    Secret Service for the purpose of the security survey;
        (2) provide Secret Service personnel, in accordance with all 
    laws, with access to person(s) arrested in connection with theft or 
    removal of currency from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing; and
        (3) provide access to all relevant investigative reports and 
    materials: Provided, That access to such persons is approved by the 
    appropriate United States Attorney.
    (d) The Director of the United States Secret Service shall provide 
a preliminary report to the Congress no later than 90 days from the 
date of enactment of this Act, and a final report containing specific 
findings and recommendations to the Congress within 180 days of 
enactment of this Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1995''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                     Payments to the Postal Service


                    Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code; $92,317,000: Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further, That six-day delivery and rural delivery of mail 
shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act 
shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging 
any officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1995.

      Payment to the Postal Service Fund for Nonfunded Liabilities

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for meeting the liabilities 
of the former Post Office Department to the Employees' Compensation 
Fund pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2004, $37,776,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1995''.

TITLE III--EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO 
                             THE PRESIDENT

                     Compensation of the President

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance 
at the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; 
$250,000: Provided, That none of the funds made available for official 
expenses shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount 
shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31 of 
the United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         The White House Office


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for 
as provided in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
newspapers, periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); not to exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, 
to be available for allocation within the Executive Office of the 
President; $40,193,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House


                            Operating Expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President; $7,827,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109-110, 112-114.

                Official Residence of the Vice President


                            Operating Expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$324,000: Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                  Special Assistance to the President


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,280,000.

                      Council of Economic Advisers


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,439,000.

                      Office of Policy Development


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$5,058,000.

                       National Security Council


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $6,648,000.

                        Office of Administration


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration; 
$26,217,000, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 
U.S.C. 107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles: Provided, That of the 
budgetary resources available in fiscal year 1995 in this account, 
$117,000 are permanently canceled: Provided further, That amounts 
available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in this 
account are reduced by such amount: Provided further, That as used 
herein, ``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                    Office of Management and Budget


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; $57,754,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000, shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35: 
Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall 
be applied only to the objects for which appropriations were made 
except as otherwise provided by law: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management and Budget 
may be used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing 
orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions of the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available for the Office 
of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering 
of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before 
the Committee on Appropriations or the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
or their subcommittees: Provided further, That this proviso shall not 
apply to printed hearings released by the Committee on Appropriations 
or the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; for participation in joint projects or in the provision of 
services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$9,942,000: Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, 
administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for the purpose 
of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year; $1,000,000.

                     Federal Drug Control Programs


              High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program

                      (Including Transfer of Funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $98,000,000, 
for drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for 
each of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
no less than $55,000,000 shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities; and of which up to $52,000,000 
may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be 
determined by the Director: Provided, That an additional $9,000,000 
shall be made available for drug control activities in Puerto Rico and 
the United States Virgin Islands only if the Director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy designates such area as a High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Area: Provided further, That the funds made available 
under this head shall be obligated within 90 days of the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                        Special Forfeiture Fund


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 100-690, $41,900,000, which 
shall be derived from deposits in the Special Forfeiture Fund; of which 
$1,800,000 shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement Administration 
for the El Paso Intelligence Center; of which $15,000,000 shall be 
available to the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy 
for enhancing anti-drug control activities, upon the advance approval 
of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; of which 
$3,100,000 shall be available to the Director of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy for ballistics technologies, upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; of which 
$14,000,000 shall be transferred to the Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration, and of which $10,000,000 shall be 
available to the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment for the 
residential women and children's program, and of which $4,000,000 shall 
be available to the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment for community 
drug treatment programs; of which $8,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be transferred to the Counter-Drug Technology 
Assessment Center for counternarcotics research and development 
projects and shall be available for transfer to other Federal 
departments or agencies.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1995''.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States


                          SALARIES AND EXPENSES

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, established by the Administrative Conference Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. 571 et seq.), including not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $1,800,000.

           Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Advisory 
Commission on Intergovernmental Relations Act of 1959, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 4271-79); $1,000,000, and additional amounts collected from the 
sale of publications shall be credited to and used for the purposes of 
this appropriation.

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 
1971, Public Law 92-28; $1,682,000.

                      Federal Election Commission


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended; $27,106,000, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and representation 
expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $21,341,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                    General Services Administration

                         Federal Buildings Fund


                  Limitations on Availability of Revenue

  For additional expenses necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), 
$310,197,000, to be deposited into said Fund. The revenues and 
collections deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary 
expenses of real property management and related activities not 
otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, and 
protection of Federally owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings 
in the District of Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving 
governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, approaches 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of Federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, taxes, and any other obligations for public buildings 
acquired by installment purchase and purchase contract, in the 
aggregate amount of $4,932,322,000, of which (1) not to exceed 
$601,702,000 shall remain available until expended for construction of 
additional projects at locations and at maximum construction 
improvement costs (including funds for sites and expenses and 
associated design and construction services) as follows:
    New Construction:
    Alabama:
        Montgomery, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $40,547,000
    Arizona:
        Bullhead City, a grant to the Federal Aviation Administration 
    for a runway protection zone, $2,200,000
        Tucson, a grant to the Arizona Historical Documents Education 
    Foundation, $2,000,000
        Tucson, U.S. Courthouse, $81,708,000
    Florida:
        Jacksonville, U.S. Courthouse, $4,600,000
    Georgia:
        Albany, U.S. Courthouse, $5,640,000
        Savannah, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $3,000,000
    Hawaii:
        Consolidation, University of Hawaii-Hilo, $12,000,000
    Kentucky:
        Covington, U.S. Courthouse, $2,914,000
        London, U.S. Courthouse, $1,523,000
    Louisiana:
        Lafayette, U.S. Courthouse, $5,042,000
    Maryland:
        Beltsville, Secret Service Building, $2,400,000
        Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties, Food and Drug 
    Administration consolidation, $45,000,000
        Beltsville, a transfer to the Rowley Secret Service Training 
    Center, $5,000,000
    Missouri:
        Kansas City, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $84,895,000
        St. Louis, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $171,863,000
    New Mexico:
        Albuquerque, U.S. Courthouse, $44,342,000
    New York:
        Long Island, U.S. Courthouse, $23,200,000
    Nevada:
        Las Vegas, U.S. Courthouse, $4,230,000
    Ohio:
        Cleveland, U.S. Courthouse, $28,246,000
        Steubenville, U.S. Courthouse, $2,820,000
    Tennessee:
        Greeneville, U.S. Courthouse, $2,936,000
    Texas:
        Brownsville, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $5,980,000
        Corpus Christi, U.S. Courthouse, $6,446,000
        El Paso, Federal Office Building, Claim, $327,000
    Washington:
        Blaine, Border Station, $4,472,000
        Point Roberts, Border Station, $698,000
    West Virginia:
        Martinsburg, Internal Revenue Service Computer Center, 
    $7,547,000
    Non-prospectus construction projects, $126,000: Provided, That each 
of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new construction 
projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are effected in 
other such projects, but not to exceed 10 per centum unless advanced 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate of a greater amount: Provided further, That all funds for 
direct construction projects shall expire on September 30, 1996, and 
remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or 
in part prior to such date: Provided further, That claims against the 
Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects, acquisitions of buildings and purchase contract projects 
pursuant to Public Law 92-313, be liquidated with prior notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate to the extent 
savings are effected in other such projects; (2) not to exceed 
$720,564,000, which shall remain available until expended, for repairs 
and alterations which, beginning with fiscal year 1995 and in 
subsequent fiscal years, includes associated design and construction 
services: Provided further, That funds in the Federal Buildings Fund 
for Repairs and Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited 
to the amount by project as follows, except each project may be 
increased by an amount not to exceed 10 per centum unless advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate of a greater amount:
    Repairs and Alterations:
    California:
        Los Angeles, U.S. Courthouse, $22,420,000
        Menlo Park, U.S. Geological Survey Building #3, $6,868,000
        Sacramento, Federal Building, $14,914,000
        San Pedro, Custom House, $4,887,000
    Colorado:
        Denver, Federal Building and Custom House, $8,006,000
    District of Columbia:
        Ariel Rios, Facades, $3,551,000
        Customs/ICC/Connecting Wing Complex, (phase I), $8,696,000
        National Courts, $4,129,000
    Illinois:
        Chicago, Federal Center, $47,682,000
    Maryland:
        Baltimore, George H. Fallon Federal Building (phase 3), 
    $15,459,000
        Woodlawn, SSA East High-Low Buildings, $17,292,000
    New Jersey:
        Trenton, Clarkson S. Fisher Courthouse, $14,107,000
    New York:
        Holtsville, IRS Service Center, $19,183,000
        New York, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, $2,602,000
        New York, Silvio V. Mollo Federal Building, $953,000
    North Carolina:
        Asheville, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $6,347,000
    Ohio:
        Cleveland, Anthony J. Celebreeze Federal Building, $10,972,000
    Oklahoma:
        Oklahoma City, Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, $5,290,000
    Pennsylvania:
        Harrisburg, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $15,213,000
        Philadelphia, Byrne-Green Complex, $30,628,000
        Philadelphia, R.N.C. Nix, Sr., Federal Building and U.S. 
    Courthouse (phase 3), $13,257,000
    Rhode Island:
        Providence, Kennedy Plaza Federal Courthouse, $7,740,000
    Texas:
        Lubbock, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $12,167,000
    Virginia:
        Richmond, U.S. Courthouse and Annex, $12,509,000
    Washington:
        Walla Walla, Corps of Engineers Building, $2,800,000
    Nationwide:
        Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $90,035,000
        Energy Program, $45,723,000
    Advance Design, $19,515,000
    Minor Repairs and Alterations, $257,619,000: Provided further, That 
additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully approved may 
be funded under this category only if advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That the difference between the funds appropriated and 
expended on any projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading 
``Repairs and Alterations'', may be transferred to Minor Repairs and 
Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects: Provided further, That all funds for repairs and alterations 
prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 1996, and remain in 
the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to which funds 
for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior 
to such date: Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any 
prior Act for Minor Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims 
against the Government arising from any projects under the heading 
``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in 
prospectus projects; (3) not to exceed $127,531,000 for installment 
acquisition payments including payments on purchase contracts which 
shall remain available until expended; (4) not to exceed $2,173,000,000 
for rental of space which shall remain available until expended and (5) 
not to exceed $1,309,525,000 for building operations which shall remain 
available until expended  of which $3,400,000 shall be available for 
essential functional requirements for primary structural, electrical, 
and security systems of the Bureau of Census, New Computer Center: 
Provided further, That of the funds available to the General Services 
Administration for the U.S. Courthouse in Albany, Georgia; the Federal 
building consolidation in Hilo, Hawaii; the U.S. Courthouse in 
Covington, Kentucky; the U.S. Courthouse, London, Kentucky; the Secret 
Service building, Beltsville, Maryland; the U.S. Courthouse, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico; the U.S. Courthouse, Long Island, New York; 
the U.S. Courthouse, Las Vegas, Nevada; the U.S. Courthouse, 
Jacksonville, Florida; the U.S. Courthouse, Corpus Christi, Texas; the 
U.S. Courthouse, Steubenville, Ohio; the U.S. Courthouse, Greeneville, 
Tennessee; the Kennedy Plaza Federal Courthouse, Providence, Rhode 
Island; the Corps of Engineers building, Walla Walla, Washington; and 
the construction funds only for the U.S. Courthouse, Tucson, Arizona; 
shall not be available for expenses in connection with any 
construction, repair, alteration, and acquisition project for which a 
prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as 
amended, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses in connection with the 
development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $5,000,000 of the funds appropriated for the Food and Drug 
Administration consolidation may be used for necessary infrastructure 
improvements: Provided further, That of the $6,000,000 made available 
in Public Laws 102-93 and 103-123 for the acquisition, lease, 
construction and equipping of flexiplace work telecommuting centers, 
not to exceed $1,300,000 shall be available for payment to a public 
entity in the State of Maryland to provide facilities, equipment and 
other services to the General Services Administration for purposes of 
establishing telecommuting work centers in Southern Maryland (Waldorf, 
Prince Frederick, and St. Mary's County) for use by government agencies 
designated by the Administrator of General Services: Provided further, 
That for the purposes of this authorization, buildings constructed 
pursuant to the purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings 
Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to 
installment purchase contracts, and buildings under the control of 
another department or agency where alterations of such buildings are 
required in connection with the moving of such other department or 
agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under the control of 
the General Services Administration shall be considered to be federally 
owned buildings: Provided further, That funds available in the Federal 
Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate: Provided further, That amounts necessary to provide 
reimbursable special services to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) 
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as 
amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such reimbursable 
fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or 
other property not in Government ownership or control as may be 
appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be 
available from such revenues and collections: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund 
during fiscal year 1995, excluding reimbursements under section 
210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of $4,932,322,000 shall remain in 
the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                         Federal Buildings Fund


                  LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE

                               (RESCISSION)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 100-
440, Public Law 101-136, Public Law 101-509, Public Law 102-141, Public 
Law 102-393, and Public Law 103-123, $84,120,000 are rescinded from the 
following projects in the following amounts:
    California:
        Menlo Park, U.S. Geological Survey Office and Laboratory 
    Buildings, $783,000
    District of Columbia:
        United States Secret Service, Headquarters, $13,958,000
        White House Remote Delivery and Vehicle Maintenance Facility, 
    $4,918,000
        Federal Bureau of Investigation, Field Office, $4,419,000
        Federal Office Building No. 6, $8,583,000
    Florida:
        Ft. Myers, U.S. Courthouse, $654,000
        Hollywood, Federal Building, $1,000,000
        Lakeland, Federal Building, $4,400,000
    Indiana:
        Hammond, U.S. Courthouse, $2,500,000
    Iowa:
        Burlington, Parking Facility, $2,400,000
    Maryland:
        Bowie, Bureau of Census, Computer Center, $660,000
        New Carrollton, Internal Revenue Service, Headquarters, 
    $30,100,000
    New Hampshire:
        Concord, U.S. Courthouse, $867,000
    New Jersey:
        Newark, Federal Building, 20 Washington Plaza, $327,000
    New Mexico:
        Santa Teresa, Border Station, $4,044,000
    North Dakota:
        Fargo, U.S. Courthouse, $2,000,000
    Tennessee:
        Knoxville, U.S. Courthouse, $800,000
    Texas:
        Del Rio, Border Station, $1,707,000.


                            operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for asset management activities; utilization of excess and 
disposal of surplus personal property; transportation management 
activities; procurement and supply management activities; Government-
wide and internal responsibilities relating to automated data 
management, telecommunications, information resources management, and 
related activities; the utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $130,036,000: Provided, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $172,000 
are permanently canceled: Provided further, That no less than $825,000 
shall be available for personnel and associated costs in support of 
Congressional District and Senate State offices without reimbursement 
from these offices.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,090,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $5,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

           Allowances and Office Staff for Former Presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138; $2,215,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of such Acts.


         expenses of transportation audit contracts and contract 
                             administration

    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $30,000.


                           general supply fund

    Of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $1,009,000 
are permanently canceled.


   information resources management service information technology fund

    Of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $609,000 
are permanently canceled.


                           working capital fund

    Amounts received for administrative support services provided under 
this head shall be credited to and merged with the Fund, to remain 
available until expended, for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Fund and for the necessary expenses of administrative support 
services including accounting, budget, personnel, legal support and 
other related services; and the maintenance and operation of printing 
and reproduction facilities in support of the functions of the General 
Services Administration, other Federal agencies, and other entities; 
and other such administrative and management services that the 
Administrator of GSA deems appropriate and advantageous (subject to 
prior notice to the Office of Management and Budget): Provided, That 
entities for which such services are performed shall be charged at 
rates which will return in full the cost of operations.

          General Services Administration--General Provisions

    Section 1. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 2. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 3. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1995 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements. Any proposed transfers shall be approved in 
advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 4. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the General 
Services Administration during fiscal year 1995, $8,959,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the agency's 
accounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses. 
Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated to such 
account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 5. Rent rates charged by the General Services Administration 
for fiscal year 1995 shall reflect the reductions contained in the 
President's budget amendment dated March 16, 1994, Estimate No. 9, 
103rd Congress, 2nd Session.
    Sec. 6. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
or expended in any way for the purpose of the sale, excessing, 
surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Norfolk Lake, 
Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, Department of the 
Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.
    Sec. 7. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
or expended in any way for the purpose of the sale, excessing, 
surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Bull Shoals Lake, 
Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, Department of the 
Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.
    Sec. 8. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 1996 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that does not meet the standards for construction as 
established by the General Services Administration and the Office of 
Management and Budget.
    Sec. 9. The Administrator of the General Services Administration is 
directed to obligate the funds appropriated in Public Law 103-123 for 
the purposes stated in section 804 of that Act.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board


                          Salaries and Expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct 
procurement of survey printing, $24,549,000, together with not to 
exceed $2,250,000 for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement 
appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection 
Board.

 Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental 
                           Policy Foundation


    federal payment to morris k. udall scholarship and excellence in 
                national environmental policy foundation

    For payment by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Morris K. Udall 
Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Trust Fund, to be 
available for purposes as authorized by the Morris K. Udall Scholarship 
and Excellence in National Environmental and Native American Public 
Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-259), $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration


                            operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with National Archives and 
Records Administration and related activities, as provided by law, and 
for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $195,238,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to move into the 
facility: Provided further, That of the budgetary resources available 
in fiscal year 1995 in this account, $325,000 are permanently canceled: 
Provided further, That amounts available for procurement and 
procurement-related expenses in this account are reduced by such 
amount: Provided further, That as used herein, ``procurement'' includes 
all stages of the process of acquiring property or services, beginning 
with the process of determining a need for a product or services and 
ending with contract completion and closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 
403(2): Provided further, That of the offsetting collections credited 
to this account, $441,000 are permanently canceled.


         national historical publications and records commission

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$9,000,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$2,000,000 shall be a grant to the Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Library: 
Provided further, That $2,000,000 shall be a grant to the Robert H. and 
Corinne W. Michel Congressional Education Fund.


            john f. kennedy assassination records review board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, $2,150,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                       national archives trust fund

  Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $16,000.

                      Office of Government Ethics


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, 
Public Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $8,104,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management


                          Salaries and Expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis, rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of the Office of Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for expenses incurred under Executive Order 10422 of 
January 9, 1953, as amended; $115,139,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be made available for the establishment of health 
promotion and disease prevention programs for Federal employees, and in 
addition $93,934,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred 
from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
health benefits printing, for the retirement and insurance programs, of 
which $10,956,000 shall be transferred at such times as the Office of 
Personnel Management deems appropriate, and shall remain available 
until expended for the costs of automating the retirement recordkeeping 
systems, together with remaining amounts authorized in previous Acts 
for the recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the provisions of this 
appropriation shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust 
funds as provided by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States 
Code: Provided further, That, except as may be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 
8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made from the Employees Health 
Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or other provider of health 
care services or supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies 
are provided to an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7-1320a-7a), from participation in 
any program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395 et seq.): Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining 
Unit of the Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to 
Executive Order 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like 
purpose: Provided further, That the President's Commission on White 
House Fellows, established by Executive Order 11183 of October 3, 1964, 
may, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, accept donations 
of money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted 
for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses


                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; $4,009,000, and in addition, not to exceed $6,156,000 
for administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel 
Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.


       government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), 
as amended, $4,210,560,000 to remain available until expended.


        government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, $19,159,000, to remain available until expended.


         payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-75), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.


                              revolving fund

    Of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $649,000 
are permanently canceled.

                     Office of Personnel Management


                            general provisions

    Section 1. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the Office 
of Personnel Management during fiscal year 1995, $1,256,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the agency's 
accounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses. 
Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated to such 
account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                       Office of Special Counsel


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), and the 
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses 
for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $7,955,000.

                        United States Tax Court


                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $34,039,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1995''.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Section 501. No part of any appropriation made available in this 
Act shall be used for the purchase or sale of real estate or for the 
purpose of establishing new offices inside or outside the District of 
Columbia: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to programs 
which have been approved by the Congress and appropriations made 
therefor.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 504. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the procurement of, or for the payment of, the salary 
of any person engaged in the procurement of any hand or measuring 
tool(s) not produced in the United States or its possessions except to 
the extent that the Administrator of General Services or his designee 
shall determine that a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of 
hand or measuring tools produced in the United States or its 
possessions cannot be procured as and when needed from sources in the 
United States and its possessions, or except in accordance with 
procedures prescribed by section 6-104.4(b) of Armed Services 
Procurement Regulation dated January 1, 1969, as such regulation 
existed on June 15, 1970: Provided, That a factor of 75 per centum in 
lieu of 50 per centum shall be used for evaluating foreign source end 
products against a domestic source end product. This section shall be 
applicable to all solicitations for bids opened after its enactment.
    Sec. 505. None of the funds made available to the General Services 
Administration pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 shall be obligated or expended 
after the date of enactment of this Act for the procurement by contract 
of any guard, elevator operator, messenger or custodial services if any 
permanent veterans preference employee of the General Services 
Administration at said date, would be terminated as a result of the 
procurement of such services, except that such funds may be obligated 
or expended for the procurement by contract of the covered services 
with sheltered workshops employing the severely handicapped under 
Public Law 92-28. Only if such workshops decline to contract for the 
provision of the covered services may the General Services 
Administration procure the services by competitive contract, for a 
period not to exceed 5 years. At such time as such competitive contract 
expires or is terminated for any reason, the General Services 
Administration shall again offer to contract for the services from a 
sheltered workshop prior to offering such services for competitive 
procurement.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930.
    Sec. 507. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for the purpose of transferring control over the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, Georgia, Tucson, 
Arizona, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Treasury Department.
    Sec. 508. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 509. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee 
of the United States Postal Service, who--
        (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to prohibit 
    or prevent, any officer or employee of the United States Postal 
    Service from having any direct oral or written communication or 
    contact with any Member or committee of Congress in connection with 
    any matter pertaining to the employment of such officer or employee 
    or pertaining to the United States Postal Service in any way, 
    irrespective of whether such communication or contact is at the 
    initiative of such officer or employee or in response to the 
    request or inquiry of such Member or committee; or
        (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, reduces 
    in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of efficiency 
    rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, transfers, 
    disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any employment right, 
    entitlement, or benefit, or any term or condition of employment of, 
    any officer or employee of the United States Postal Service, or 
    attempts or threatens to commit any of the foregoing actions with 
    respect to such officer or employee, by reason of any communication 
    or contact of such officer or employee with any Member or committee 
    of Congress as described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    Sec. 510. Funds under this Act shall be available as authorized by 
sections 4501-4506 of title 5, United States Code, when the achievement 
involved is certified, or when an award for such achievement is 
otherwise payable, in accordance with such sections. Such funds may not 
be used for any purpose with respect to which the preceding sentence 
relates beyond fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 511. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of the Treasury by this or any other Act 
shall be obligated or expended to contract out positions in, or 
downgrade the position classifications of, members of the United States 
Mint Police Force and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Police 
Force, or for studying the feasibility of contracting out such 
positions.
    Sec. 512. The Office of Personnel Management may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1995, accept donations of supplies, services, 
land and equipment for the Federal Executive Institute, the Federal 
Quality Institute, and Management Development Centers to assist in 
enhancing the quality of Federal management.
    Sec. 513. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the procurement of, or for the payment of, the salary 
of any person engaged in the procurement of stainless steel flatware 
not produced in the United States or its possessions, except to the 
extent that the Administrator of General Services or his designee shall 
determine that a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of 
stainless steel flatware produced in the United States or its 
possessions, cannot be procured as and when needed from sources in the 
United States or its possessions or except in accordance with 
procedures provided by section 6-104.4(b) of Armed Services Procurement 
Regulations, dated January 1, 1969. This section shall be applicable to 
all solicitations for bids issued after its enactment.
    Sec. 514. The United States Secret Service may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1995, accept donations of money to off-set 
costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and spouses of former 
Presidents when the former President or spouse travels for the purpose 
of making an appearance or speech for a payment of money or any thing 
of value.
    Sec. 515. None of the funds made available by this Act for 
``Allowances and Office Staff for Former Presidents'' may be used for 
partisan political activities.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to withdraw the designation of the Virginia Inland Port at Front Royal, 
Virginia, as a United States Customs Service port of entry.
    Sec. 517. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1995 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to the Postal Service by 
this Act shall be used to transfer mail processing capabilities from 
the Las Cruces, New Mexico postal facility, and that every effort will 
be made by the Postal Service to recognize the rapid rate of population 
growth in Las Cruces and to automate the Las Cruces, New Mexico postal 
facility in order that mail processing can be expedited and handled in 
Las Cruces.
    Sec. 519. None of the funds in this Act may be used to reduce the 
rank or rate of pay of a career appointee in the SES upon reassignment 
or transfer.
    Sec. 520. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service and has within 
ninety days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year made 
application for restoration to his former position and has been 
certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to 
perform the duties of his former position and has not been restored 
thereto.
    Sec. 521. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may, with 
respect to an individual employed by the Bureau of the Public Debt in 
the Washington Metropolitan Region on April 10, 1991, be used to 
separate, reduce the grade or pay of, or carry out any other adverse 
personnel action against such individual for declining to accept a 
directed reassignment to a position outside such region, pursuant to a 
transfer of any such Bureau's operations or functions to Parkersburg, 
West Virginia.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any individual 
who, on or after the date of enactment of this Act, declines an offer 
of another position in the Department of the Treasury which is of at 
least equal pay and which is within the Washington Metropolitan Region.
    Sec. 522. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide any non-public information such as mailing or telephone 
lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 523. Compliance With Buy American Act.--No funds appropriated 
pursuant to this Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity 
agrees that in expending the assistance the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 524. Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--(a) 
Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case of any 
equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased with 
financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in expending 
the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 525. Prohibition of Contracts.--If it has been finally 
determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally 
affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any 
inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to 
the United States that is not made in the United States, such person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with 
funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant to the debarment, 
suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in section 9.400 
through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 526. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to relocate 
any Federal agency, bureau, office or other entity funded in this Act 
if the sole reason for the relocation is that locality pay was 
increased.
    Sec. 527. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 1995 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 1995 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 1996 for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds.
    Sec. 528. Where appropriations in this Act are expendable for 
travel expenses of employees and no specific limitation has been placed 
thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not exceed the 
amount set forth therefor in the budget estimates submitted for 
appropriations without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not 
apply to travel performed by uncompensated officials of local boards 
and appeal boards in the Selective Service System; to travel performed 
directly in connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs; to travel of the Office of 
Personnel Management in carrying out its observation responsibilities 
of the Voting Rights Act; or to payments to interagency motor pools 
separately set forth in the budget schedules.
    Sec. 529. Law Enforcement Exclusion From Workforce Restructuring.--
(a) For the fiscal year beginning on October 1, 1994, no reductions 
pursuant to section 5(b) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act of 
1994 (Public Law 103-226) may be made in the number of full-time 
equivalent employees classified as law enforcement and law enforcement 
support personnel in the Department of the Treasury.
    (b) During the period specified in subsection (a), no law, 
regulation, Executive order, guidance, or other directive imposing a 
restriction on hiring by executive agencies for the purpose of 
achieving workforce reductions shall apply to employees classified as 
law enforcement and law enforcement support personnel in the Department 
of the Treasury.
    (c) Section 5(f) paragraph (3) of the Federal Workforce 
Restructuring Act shall not apply with respect to any instances of 
voluntary separation incentive payments made to Treasury law 
enforcement personnel.
    Sec. 530. (a) Section 3056 paragraph (a), subparagraph (3) of title 
18, United States Code, is amended by adding to subparagraph (3) 
following the word ``remarriage'', ``unless the former President did 
not serve as President prior to January 1, 1997, in which case, former 
Presidents and their spouses for a period of not more than ten years 
from the date a former President leaves office, except that--
        ``(1) protection of a spouse shall terminate in the event of 
    remarriage or the divorce from, or death of a former President; and
        ``(2) should the death of a President occur while in office or 
    within one year after leaving office, the spouse shall receive 
    protection for one year from the time of such death:
Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall have the authority 
to direct the Secret Service to provide temporary protection for any of 
these individuals at any time if the Secretary of the Treasury or 
designee determines that information or conditions warrant such 
protection''.
    (b) Section 3056, paragraph (a) subparagraph (4) of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting to the text of paragraph 
(4), following the word ``age'' the following, ``for a period not to 
exceed ten years or upon the child becoming 16 years of age, whichever 
comes first''.
    Sec. 531. The Act entitled ``An Act to provide retirement, clerical 
assistants, and free mailing privileges to former Presidents of the 
United States, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1958 
(Public Law 85-745; 72 Stat. 838; 3 United States Code 102 note), is 
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
    ``(g) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator 
of General Services up to $1,000,000 for each former President and up 
to $500,000 for the spouse of each former President each fiscal year 
for security and travel related expenses: Provided, That under the 
provisions set forth in section 3056, paragraph (a), subparagraph (3) 
of title 18, United States Code, the former President and/or spouse was 
not receiving protection for a lifetime provided by the United States 
Secret Service under section 3056 paragraph (a) subparagraph (3) of 
title 18, United States Code; the protection provided by the United 
States Secret Service expired at its designated time; or the protection 
provided by the United States Secret Service was declined prior to 
authorized expiration in lieu of these funds.''.
    Sec. 532. Section 1 under the subheading ``General Provision'' 
under the heading ``Office of Personnel Management'' under title IV of 
the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 
1992 (Public Law 102-141; 105 Stat. 861; 5 U.S.C. 5941 note), is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``1995'' both places it appears and inserting 
    in lieu thereof ``1996''; and
        (2) by striking ``adjustments'' and the remainder of the 
    sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ``appropriate changes in the 
    method of fixing compensation for affected employees, including any 
    necessary legislative changes. Such study shall include--
        ``(1) an examination of the pay practices of other employers in 
    the affected areas;
        ``(2) a consideration of alternative approaches to dealing with 
    the unusual and unique circumstances of the affected areas, 
    including modifications to the current methodology for calculating 
    allowances to take into account all cost of living in the 
    geographic areas of the affected employee; and
        ``(3) an evaluation of the likely impact of the different 
    approaches on the Government's ability to recruit and retain a 
    well-qualified workforce.
For the purpose of conducting such study and preparing such report, the 
Office may accept and utilize (without regard to any restriction on 
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds 
made available to the Office pursuant to court approval.''.
    Sec. 533. (a) Facilities or buildings located at Safford, Graham 
County, Arizona and constructed with Federal funds made available to 
the General Services Administration for the United States Forest 
Service Administrative Offices and Cultural Center, shall be designated 
in honor of ``Ora Webster DeConcini''. Any reference to such facilities 
or buildings in a law, map, regulation, document, record, or other 
paper of the United States shall be a reference to the ``Ora Webster 
DeConcini building(s) or facilities''.
    (b) The Federal Building and United States Courthouse to be located 
in Tucson, Arizona is hereby designated as the ``Evo A. DeConcini 
Federal Building and United States Courthouse''. Any reference to such 
building in a law, map, regulation, document, record, or other paper of 
the United States shall be a reference to the ``Evo A. DeConcini 
Federal Building and United States Courthouse''.
    Sec. 534. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of General Services is authorized to execute a lease, of 
no less than twenty years, with the city of Tucson, Arizona, or a 
subdivision thereof, for space to house the United States Department of 
Agriculture's Forest Service and other Federal tenants in an office 
complex to be developed by the city of Tucson on a site or sites owned 
by the city of Tucson and located near the intersection of Interstate 
Highway 10 and Congress Street in the city of Tucson, county of Pima, 
State of Arizona. The Administrator shall negotiate an operating lease 
that he deems to be in the best interests of the United States and 
necessary for the accommodation of Federal agencies.
    Sec. 535. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation: 
(1) The authority of the special police officers of the Bureau of 
Engraving and Printing, in the Washington, DC Metropolitan area, 
extends to buildings and land under the custody and control of the 
Bureau; to buildings and land acquired by or for the Bureau through 
lease, unless otherwise provided by the acquisition agency; to the 
streets, sidewalks and open areas immediately adjacent to the Bureau 
along Wallenberg Place (15th Street) and 14th Street between 
Independence and Maine Avenues and C and D Streets between 12th and 
14th Streets; to areas which include surrounding parking facilities 
used by Bureau employees, including the lots at 12th and C Streets, 
SW., Maine Avenue and Water Streets, SW., Maiden Lane, the Tidal Basin 
and East Potomac Park; to the protection in transit of United States 
securities, plates and dies used in the production of United States 
securities, or other products or implements of the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing which the Director of that agency so designates; (2) The 
exercise of police authority by Bureau officers, with the exception of 
the exercise of authority upon property under the custody and control 
of the Bureau, shall be deemed supplementary to the Federal police 
force with primary jurisdictional responsibility. This authority shall 
be in addition to any other law enforcement authority which has been 
provided to these officers under other provisions of law or 
regulations.
    Sec. 536. Of the unobligated balance of funds made available until 
expended to the United States Mint in Public Law 103-123 and in prior 
Appropriations Acts, not to exceed $2,066,000 shall also be available 
in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994 for all purposes for which 
funds are appropriated under the heading ``United States Mint, Salaries 
and expenses''.
    Sec. 537. Of the funds appropriated to the Office of Policy 
Development in title III of this Act, not to exceed $800,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Council on Environmental Quality and Office of 
Environmental Quality''.
    Sec. 538. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Internal Revenue Service is authorized to replace no more than 850 
vehicles for the criminal investigation division in fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 539. The activity referenced in section 5 of GSA's General 
Provisions in Public Law 103-123 (107 Stat. 1246) ``Major equipment 
acquisitions and development activity'' of the Salaries and expenses, 
General Management and Administration appropriation account for 
transfer of prior year unobligated balances of operating expenses and 
salaries and expenses appropriation accounts may be separately 
accounted for under the new Working Capital Fund enacted in this Act.
    Sec. 540. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the review 
being conducted by the Secretary of the Treasury regarding the 
September 12, 1994, air incursion into the White House complex shall be 
exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act, Public Law 92-463 
(codified at title 5, United States Code, appendix 2) as amended.
    Sec. 541. Section 1(a)(1) of Public Law 101-509 is amended by 
deleting subsection (a)(1) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
    ``(a)(1) The Director of the Center for Legislative Archives within 
the National Archives and Records Administration shall be established 
without regard to chapter 51 of title 5 and shall be paid at a rate 
determined without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 governing General Schedule 
classification and pay rates: Provided, That such pay shall be no less 
than 120 percent of the rate of pay for GS-15, step 1 of the General 
Schedule nor more than the rate of pay in effect for level one of the 
Senior Executive Schedule.''.

              TITLE VI--GOVERNMENTWIDE GENERAL PROVISIONS

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Section  601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1995 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department or 
instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision 
of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant 
to this section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the 
purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum 
shall be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to 
exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for 
special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than five percent for 
electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the 
provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, 
and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean 
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over 
the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-24.
    Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal year 
no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act shall 
be used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person (1) is a citizen of the United States, (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is 
actually residing in the United States, (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States, (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence, or (5) South Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Laotian refugees 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975, or (6) nationals of 
the People's Republic of China that qualify for adjustment of status 
pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: Provided, That 
for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by any such person 
shall be considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this 
section with respect to his or her status have been complied with: 
Provided further, That any person making a false affidavit shall be 
guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be fined no more than 
$4,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both: Provided 
further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to, and not 
in substitution for, any other provisions of existing law: Provided 
further, That any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to 
the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by the 
Federal Government. This section shall not apply to citizens of 
Ireland, Israel, the Republic of the Philippines or to nationals of 
those countries allied with the United States in the current defense 
effort, or to international broadcasters employed by the United States 
Information Agency, or to temporary employment of translators, or to 
temporary employment in the field service (not to exceed sixty days) as 
a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
        (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention and recycling 
    programs as described in Executive Order 12873 (October 20, 1993), 
    including any such programs adopted prior to the effective date of 
    the Executive Order.
        (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
    including but not limited to, the development and implementation of 
    hazardous waste management and pollution prevention programs.
        (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as deemed 
    appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    The Administrator of General Services or his designee is authorized 
to transfer funds received into the Federal Buildings Fund pursuant to 
section 11 of GSA--General Provisions, Public Law 102-141, October 28, 
1991, 105 Stat. 856, 40 U.S.C., sec. 490(f) (7) and (8), or sec. 490g, 
prior to the effective date of this legislation, to other Federal 
agencies for use by those agencies for the purposes set forth in those 
statutes. Such funds shall be available until expended and shall be in 
addition to any amounts appropriated for such purposes.
    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after 
the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. Any department or agency to which the Administrator of 
General Services has delegated the authority to operate, maintain or 
repair any building or facility pursuant to section 205(d) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, 
shall retain that portion of the GSA rental payment available for 
operation, maintenance or repair of the building or facility, as 
determined by the Administrator, and expend such funds directly for the 
operation, maintenance or repair of the building or facility. Any funds 
retained under this section shall remain available until expended for 
such purposes.
    Sec. 612. Pursuant to section 1415 of the Act of July 15, 1952 (66 
Stat. 662), foreign credits (including currencies) owed to or owned by 
the United States may be used by Federal agencies for any purpose for 
which appropriations are made for the current fiscal year (including 
the carrying out of Acts requiring or authorizing the use of such 
credits), only when reimbursement therefor is made to the Treasury from 
applicable appropriations of the agency concerned: Provided, That such 
credits received as exchanged allowances or proceeds of sales of 
personal property may be used in whole or part payment for acquisition 
of similar items, to the extent and in the manner authorized by law, 
without reimbursement to the Treasury.
    Sec. 613. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards, 
commissions, councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not 
they are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and specific 
statutory approval to receive financial support from more than one 
agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 614. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
``Postal Service Fund'' (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for 
employment of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by 
the Postal Service and under the charge and control of the Postal 
Service, and such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the 
powers of special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of 
June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to 
property owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster 
General may take the same actions as the Administrator of General 
Services may take under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act 
of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a, 318b), 
attaching thereto penal consequences under the authority and within the 
limits provided in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 
Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 615. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 616. No part of any appropriation contained in, or funds made 
available by, this or any other Act, shall be available for any agency 
to pay to the Administrator of the General Services Administration a 
higher rate per square foot for rental of space and services 
(established pursuant to section 210(j) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended) than the rate per 
square foot established for the space and services by the General 
Services Administration for the fiscal year for which appropriations 
were granted.
    Sec. 617. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1995, by 
this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee 
described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
        (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
    limitation imposed by section 615 of the Treasury, Postal Service 
    and General Government Appropriations Act, 1994, until the normal 
    effective date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to 
    take effect in fiscal year 1995, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
    payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
    schedule in accordance with such section 615; and
        (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
    year 1995, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage survey 
    adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more than the 
    sum of--
            (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in fiscal year 
        1995 under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, in the 
        rates of pay under the General Schedule; and
            (B) the difference between the overall average percentage 
        of the locality-based comparability payments taking effect in 
        fiscal year 1995 under section 5304 of such title (whether by 
        adjustment or otherwise), and the overall average percentage of 
        such payments which was effective in fiscal year 1994 under 
        such section.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
not in existence on September 30, 1994, shall be determined under 
regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the 
rates in effect on September 30, 1994, except to the extent determined 
by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose 
of this section.
    (e) This section shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 1994.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including section 8431 of title 5, United States Code, and any rule or 
regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life insurance, or 
any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the 
basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this section shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate 
in excess of the rate that would be payable were this section not in 
effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    Sec. 618. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 619. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 112 and 
113 of title 3, United States Code, each Executive agency detailing any 
personnel shall submit a report on an annual basis in each fiscal year 
to the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations on all employees 
or members of the armed services detailed to Executive agencies, 
listing the grade, position, and offices of each person detailed and 
the agency to which each such person is detailed.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
        (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
        (2) the National Security Agency;
        (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
        (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
    collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
    reconnaissance programs;
        (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department 
    of State;
        (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
    and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice, the 
    Department of the Treasury, the Department of Transportation, and 
    the Department of Energy performing intelligence functions; and
        (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    (c) The exemptions in part (b) of this section are not intended to 
apply to information on the use of personnel detailed to or from the 
intelligence agencies which is currently being supplied to the Senate 
and House Intelligence and Appropriations Committees by the executive 
branch through budget justification materials and other reports.
    (d) For the purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency'' 
has the same meaning as defined under section 105 of title 5, United 
States Code (except that the provisions of section 104(2) of title 5, 
United States Code, shall not apply), and includes the White House 
Office, the Executive Residence, and any office, council, or 
organizational unit of the Executive Office of the President.
    Sec. 620. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1995 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in 
Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other 
nondisclosure policy, form or agreement if such policy, form or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions:
    ``These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, 
conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights or 
liabilities created by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, 
United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of 
title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as 
amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); 
the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et 
seq.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents), and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 
798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The 
definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and 
liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are 
incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling.''.
    Sec. 621. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 622. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be expended by any Federal agency to procure any product or 
service that is subject to the provisions of Public Law 89-306 and that 
will be available under the procurement by the Administrator of General 
Services known as ``FTS2000'' unless--
        (1) such product or service is procured by the Administrator of 
    General Services as part of the procurement known as ``FTS2000''; 
    or
        (2) that agency establishes to the satisfaction of the 
    Administrator of General Services that--
            (A) the agency's requirements for such procurement are 
        unique and cannot be satisfied by property and service procured 
        by the Administrator of General Services as part of the 
        procurement known as ``FTS2000''; and
            (B) the agency procurement, pursuant to such delegation, 
        would be cost-effective and would not adversely affect the 
        cost-effectiveness of the FTS2000 procurement.
    (b) After July 31, 1995, subsection (a) shall apply only if the 
Administrator of General Services has reported that the FTS2000 
procurement is producing prices that allow the Government to satisfy 
its requirements for such procurement in the most cost-effective 
manner.
    Sec. 623. (a) No amount of any grant made by a Federal agency shall 
be used to finance the acquisition of goods or services (including 
construction services) unless the recipient of the grant agrees, as a 
condition for the receipt of such grant, to--
        (1) specify in any announcement of the awarding of the contract 
    for the procurement of the goods and services involved (including 
    construction services) the amount of Federal funds that will be 
    used to finance the acquisition; and
        (2) express the amount announced pursuant to paragraph (1) as a 
    percentage of the total costs of the planned acquisition.
    (b) The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply to a 
procurement for goods or services (including construction services) 
that has an aggregate value of less than $500,000.
    Sec. 624. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, funds made available for fiscal year 1995 by this or any other 
Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national security 
and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit 
multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by 
Executive Order Numbered 12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 625. Notwithstanding any provisions of this or any other Act, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, any department, 
division, bureau, or office may use funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act to install telephone lines, and necessary equipment, and to 
pay monthly charges, in any private residence or private apartment of 
an employee who has been authorized to work at home in accordance with 
guidelines issued by the Office of Personnel Management: Provided, That 
the head of the department, division, bureau, or office certifies that 
adequate safeguards against private misuse exist, and that the service 
is necessary for direct support of the agency's mission.
    Sec. 626. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 
3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the 
Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, 
agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee 
that the Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in 
order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
        (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
        (2) the National Security Agency;
        (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
        (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
    collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
    reconnaissance programs;
        (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department 
    of State;
        (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
    and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice, the 
    Department of Transportation, the Department of the Treasury, and 
    the Department of Energy performing intelligence functions; and
        (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 627. None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used to relocate the Department of Justice Immigration Judges 
from offices located in Phoenix, Arizona to new quarters in Florence, 
Arizona without the prior approval of the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations.
    Sec. 628. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1995 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual 
harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title 
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination 
in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 629. (a)(1) Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6327. Absence in connection with serving as a bone-marrow or 
    organ donor
    ``(a) An employee in or under an Executive agency is entitled to 
leave without loss of or reduction in pay, leave to which otherwise 
entitled, credit for time or service, or performance or efficiency 
rating, for the time necessary to permit such employee to serve as a 
bone-marrow or organ donor.
    ``(b) Not to exceed 7 days of leave may be used under this section 
by an employee in a calendar year.
    ``(c) The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations 
for the administration of this section.''.
    (2)(A) Section 6129 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``6327,'' after ``6326,''.
    (B) The table of sections for chapter 63 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding after the item relating to section 6326 the 
following:
``6327. Absence in connection with serving as a bone-marrow or organ 
          donor.''.

    (b)(1) Section 6307 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (A) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
        (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Sick leave provided by this section may be used for purposes 
relating to the adoption of a child.''; and
        (C) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated by subparagraph (A)) 
    by inserting ``or for purposes relating to the adoption of a 
    child,'' after ``ailment,''.
    (2) Section 6129 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``6307 (a) and (c),'' and inserting ``6307 (a) and (d),''.
    (3)(A) The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe 
regulations under which any employee who used or uses annual leave for 
an adoption-related purpose, after September 30, 1991, and before the 
date as of which sick leave first becomes available for such purpose as 
a result of the enactment of this subsection may, upon appropriate 
written application, elect to have such employee's leave accounts 
adjusted to reflect the amount of annual leave and sick leave, 
respectively, which would remain had sick leave been used instead of 
all or any portion of the annual leave actually used, as designated by 
the employee.
    (B) An application under this paragraph may not be approved unless 
it is submitted--
        (i) within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
    or such later date as the Office may prescribe;
        (ii) in such form and manner as the Office shall require; and
        (iii) by an individual who is an employee as of the time of 
    application.
    (C) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term ``employee'' has 
the meaning given such term by section 6301(2) of title 5, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 630. (a)(1) The adjustment in rates of basic pay for the 
statutory pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year 1995 under 
section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an increase of 2 
percent.
    (2) For purposes of each provision of law amended by section 
704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5318 note), no 
adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
considered to have taken effect in fiscal year 1995 in the rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems.
    (3) For purposes of this subsection, the term ``statutory pay 
system'' shall have the meaning given such term by section 5302(1) of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of any locality-based comparability payments 
taking effect in fiscal year 1995 under subchapter I of chapter 53 of 
title 5, United States Code (whether by adjustment or otherwise), 
section 5304(a) of such title shall be deemed to be without force or 
effect.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 5304(a)(3)(B) of title 5, United States 
Code, the annualized cost of pay adjustments made under section 5304 of 
such title in calendar year 1995 shall be equal to 0.6 percent of the 
estimated aggregate fiscal year 1995 executive branch civilian 
payroll--
        (1) as determined by the pay agent (within the meaning of 
    section 5302 of such title); and
        (2) determined as if the rates of pay and comparability 
    payments payable on September 30, 1994, had remained in effect.
    Sec. 631. Section 5(f) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act 
of 1994 (Public Law 103-226) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Applicability of backfill prevention provisions to 
    agencies otherwise exempted from fte reduction.--
            ``(A) In general.--If any agency is otherwise exempted by 
        any law from the limitations on full-time equivalent positions 
        or the restrictions on hiring established by this section--
                ``(i) paragraph (1) shall apply to vacancies created in 
            such agency; and
                ``(ii) the reductions required pursuant to clause (i) 
            shall be made in the number of funded employee positions in 
            such agency.
            ``(B) Waiver authority.--In the case of a particular 
        position in an agency, subparagraph (A) may be waived upon a 
        determination by the head of the agency that the performance of 
        a critical agency mission requires the waiver.
            ``(C) Relation to other law.--No law may be construed as 
        suspending or modifying this paragraph unless such law 
        specifically amends this paragraph.''.
    Sec. 632. (a) In General.--Hereafter, the employment of any 
individual within the Executive Office of the President shall be placed 
on leave without pay status if the individual--
        (1) has not, within 30 days of commencing such employment or by 
    October 31, 1994 (whichever occurs later), submitted a completed 
    questionnaire for sensitive positions (SF-86) or equivalent form; 
    or
        (2) has not, within 6 months of commencing such employment or 
    by October 31, 1994 (whichever occurs later), had his or her 
    background investigation, if completed, forwarded by the counsel to 
    the President to the United States Secret Service for issuance of 
    the appropriate access pass.
    (b) Exemption.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to any individual 
specifically exempted from such subsection by the President or his 
designee.

SEC. 633. LAW ENFORCEMENT AVAILABILITY PAY.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Law 
Enforcement Availability Pay Act of 1994''.
    (b) Law Enforcement Availability Pay.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 5545 the following new section:

``Sec. 5545a. Availability pay for criminal investigators

    ``(a) For purposes of this section--
        ``(1) the term `available' refers to the availability of a 
    criminal investigator and means that an investigator shall be 
    considered generally and reasonably accessible by the agency 
    employing such investigator to perform unscheduled duty based on 
    the needs of an agency;
        ``(2) the term `criminal investigator' means a law enforcement 
    officer as defined under section 5541(3) (other than an officer 
    occupying a position under title II of Public Law 99-399) is 
    required to--
            ``(A) possess a knowledge of investigative techniques, laws 
        of evidence, rules of criminal procedure, and precedent court 
        decisions concerning admissibility of evidence, constitutional 
        rights, search and seizure, and related issues;
            ``(B) recognize, develop, and present evidence that 
        reconstructs events, sequences and time elements for 
        presentation in various legal hearings and court proceedings;
            ``(C) demonstrate skills in applying surveillance 
        techniques, undercover work, and advising and assisting the 
        United States Attorney in and out of court;
            ``(D) demonstrate the ability to apply the full range of 
        knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for cases which are 
        complex and unfold over a long period of time (as distinguished 
        from certain other occupations that require the use of some 
        investigative techniques in short-term situations that may end 
        in arrest or detention);
            ``(E) possess knowledge of criminal laws and Federal rules 
        of procedure which apply to cases involving crimes against the 
        United States, including--
                ``(i) knowledge of the elements of a crime;
                ``(ii) evidence required to prove the crime;
                ``(iii) decisions involving arrest authority;
                ``(iv) methods of criminal operations; and
                ``(v) availability of detection devices;
            ``(F) possess the ability to follow leads that indicate a 
        crime will be committed rather than initiate an investigation 
        after a crime is committed;
        ``(3) the term `unscheduled duty' means hours of duty a 
    criminal investigator works, or is determined to be available for 
    work, that are not--
            ``(A) part of the 40 hours in the basic work week of the 
        investigator; or
            ``(B) overtime hours paid under section 5542; and
        ``(4) the term `regular work day' means each day in the 
    investigator's basic work week during which the investigator works 
    at least 4 hours that are not overtime hours paid under section 
    5542 or hours considered part of section 5545a.
    ``(b) The purpose of this section is to provide premium pay to 
criminal investigators to ensure the availability of criminal 
investigators for unscheduled duty in excess of a 40 hour work week 
based on the needs of the employing agency.
    ``(c) Each criminal investigator shall be paid availability pay as 
provided under this section. Availability pay shall be paid to ensure 
the availability of the investigator for unscheduled duty. The 
investigator is generally responsible for recognizing, without 
supervision, circumstances which require the investigator to be on duty 
or be available for unscheduled duty based on the needs of the agency. 
Availability pay provided to a criminal investigator for such 
unscheduled duty shall be paid instead of premium pay provided by other 
provisions of this subchapter, except premium pay for regularly 
scheduled overtime work as provided under section 5542, night duty, 
Sunday duty, and holiday duty.
    ``(d)(1) A criminal investigator shall be paid availability pay, if 
the average of hours described under paragraph (2) (A) and (B) is equal 
to or greater than 2 hours.
    ``(2) The hours referred to under paragraph (1) are--
        ``(A) the annual average of unscheduled duty hours worked by 
    the investigator in excess of each regular work day; and
        ``(B) the annual average of unscheduled duty hours such 
    investigator is available to work on each regular work day upon 
    request of the employing agency.
    ``(3) Unscheduled duty hours which are worked by an investigator on 
days that are not regular work days shall be considered in the 
calculation of the annual average of unscheduled duty hours worked or 
available for purposes of certification.
    ``(4) An investigator shall be considered to be available when the 
investigator cannot reasonably and generally be accessible due to a 
status or assignment which is the result of an agency direction, order, 
or approval as provided under subsection (f)(1).
    ``(e)(1) Each criminal investigator receiving availability pay 
under this section and the appropriate supervisory officer, to be 
designated by the head of the agency, shall make an annual 
certification to the head of the agency that the investigator has met, 
and is expected to meet, the requirements of subsection (d). The head 
of a law enforcement agency may prescribe regulations necessary to 
administer this subsection.
    ``(2) Involuntary reduction in pay resulting from a denial of 
certification under paragraph (1) shall be a reduction in pay for 
purposes of section 7512(4) of this title.
    ``(f)(1) A criminal investigator who is eligible for availability 
pay shall receive such pay during any period such investigator is--
        ``(A) attending agency sanctioned training;
        ``(B) on agency approved sick leave or annual leave;
        ``(C) on agency ordered travel status; or
        ``(D) on excused absence with pay for relocation purposes.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(A), agencies or departments may 
provide availability pay to investigators during training which is 
considered initial, basic training usually provided in the first year 
of service.
    ``(3) Agencies or departments may provide availability pay to 
investigators when on excused absence with pay, except as provided in 
paragraph (1)(D).
    ``(g) Section 5545(c) shall not apply to any criminal investigator 
who is paid availability pay under this section.
    ``(h) Availability pay under this section shall be--
        ``(1) 25 percent of the rate of basic pay for the position; and
        ``(2) treated as part of the basic pay for purposes of--
            ``(A) sections 5595(c), 8114(e), 8331(3), 8431, and 
        8704(c); and
            ``(B) such other purposes as may be expressly provided for 
        by law or as the Office of Personnel Management may by 
        regulation prescribe.''.
        (2) Limitation on premium pay.--Section 5547(a) of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended in the first sentence by inserting 
    ``5545a,'' after ``5545 (a), (b), and (c),''.
        (3) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of sections 
    for chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 5545 the following new 
    item:
``5545a. Availability pay for criminal investigators.''.

    (c) Computation of Overtime Rates.--Section 5542 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) In applying subsection (a) of this section with respect to 
any criminal investigator who is paid availability pay under section 
5545a--
        ``(1) such investigator shall be compensated under such 
    subsection (a), at the rates there provided, for overtime work 
    which is scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek--
            ``(A) in excess of 10 hours on a day during such 
        investigator's basic 40 hour workweek; or
            ``(B) on a day outside such investigator's basic 40 hour 
        workweek; and
        ``(2) such investigator shall be compensated for all other 
    overtime work under section 5545a.''.
    (d) Exemptions From Certain Fair Labor Standards.--Section 13 of 
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 213) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (15) by striking out the period and 
        inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and ``or''; and
            (B) by adding at the end thereof the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(16) a criminal investigator who is paid availability pay 
    under section 5545a of title 5, United States Code.''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (28) by striking out ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) in paragraph (29) by striking out the period and 
        inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and ``or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(30) a criminal investigator who is paid availability pay 
    under section 5545a of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the first day of the first applicable pay period which begins 
on or after the later of October 1, 1994, or the 30th day following the 
date of enactment of this Act, except that:
        (1) Criminal investigators, employed in Offices of Inspectors 
    General, who are not receiving administratively uncontrollable 
    overtime compensation or who are receiving such premium pay at a 
    rate less than 25 percent prior to the date of enactment of this 
    Act, may implement availability pay at any time prior to September 
    30, 1995, after which date availability pay as authorized under 
    this section shall be provided to such criminal investigators.
        (2) Criminal investigators, employed by Offices of Inspectors 
    General, who are receiving administratively uncontrollable overtime 
    at a rate less than 25 percent, shall continue to receive this 
    compensation at the same rate or higher until availability pay 
    compensation is provided, which shall be no later than the last pay 
    period ending on or before September 30, 1995.
    (f) Not later than the effective date of this section, each 
criminal investigator under section 5545a of title 5, United States 
Code, as added by this section, and the appropriate supervisory 
officer, to be designated by the head of the agency, shall make an 
initial certification to the head of the agency that the criminal 
investigator is expected to meet the requirements of subsection (d) of 
such section 5545a. The head of a law enforcement agency may prescribe 
procedures necessary to administer this paragraph.
    Sec. 634. (a) Section 5704 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) Under regulations prescribed under section 5707 of this 
title, an employee who is engaged on official business for the 
Government is entitled to a rate per mile established by the 
Administrator of General Services, instead of the actual expenses of 
transportation, for the use of a privately owned automobile when that 
mode of transportation is authorized or approved as more advantageous 
to the Government. In any year in which the Internal Revenue Service 
establishes a single standard mileage rate for optional use by 
taxpayers in computing the deductible costs of operating their 
automobiles for business purposes, the rate per mile established by the 
Administrator shall not exceed the single standard mileage rate 
established by the Internal Revenue Service.
    ``(2) Under regulations prescribed under section 5707 of this 
title, an employee who is engaged on official business for the 
Government is entitled to a rate per mile established by the 
Administrator of General Services, instead of the actual expenses of 
transportation, for the use of a privately owned airplane or a 
privately owned motorcycle when that mode of transportation is 
authorized or approved as more advantageous to the Government.
    ``(b) A determination that travel by a privately owned vehicle is 
more advantageous to the Government is not required under subsection 
(a) of this section when payment on a mileage basis is limited to the 
cost of travel by common carrier including per diem.
    ``(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of 
this section, in any case in which an employee who is engaged on 
official business for the Government chooses to use a privately owned 
vehicle in lieu of a Government vehicle, payment on a mileage basis is 
limited to the cost of travel by a Government vehicle.
    ``(d) In addition to the rate per mile authorized under subsection 
(a) of this section, the employee may be reimbursed for--
        ``(1) parking fees;
        ``(2) ferry fees;
        ``(3) bridge, road, and tunnel costs; and
        ``(4) airplane landing and tie-down fees.''.
    (b) Section 5707(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(b) The Administrator of General Services shall prescribe the 
mileage reimbursement rates for use on official business of privately 
owned airplanes, privately owned automobiles, and privately owned 
motorcycles while engaged on official business as provided for in 
section 5704 of this title as follows:
        ``(1)(A) The Administrator of General Services, in consultation 
    with the Comptroller General of the United States, the Secretary of 
    Transportation, the Secretary of Defense, and representatives of 
    organizations of employees of the Government, shall conduct 
    periodic investigations of the cost of travel and the operation of 
    privately owned vehicles to employees while engaged on official 
    business, and shall report the results of such investigations to 
    Congress at least once a year.
        ``(B) In conducting the periodic investigations, the 
    Administrator shall review and analyze among other factors--
            ``(i) depreciation of original vehicle cost;
            ``(ii) gasoline and oil (excluding taxes);
            ``(iii) maintenance, accessories, parts, and tires;
            ``(iv) insurance; and
            ``(v) State and Federal taxes.
        ``(2)(A) The Administrator shall issue regulations under this 
    section which--
            ``(i) shall prescribe a mileage reimbursement rate which 
        reflects the current costs as determined by the Administrator 
        of operating privately owned automobiles, and which shall not 
        exceed, as provided in section 5704(a)(1) of this title, the 
        single standard mileage rate established by the Internal 
        Revenue Service, and
            ``(ii) shall prescribe mileage reimbursement rates which 
        reflect the current costs as determined by the Administrator of 
        operating privately owned airplanes and motorcycles.
        ``(B) At least once each year after the issuance of the 
    regulations described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the 
    Administrator shall determine, based upon the results of the cost 
    investigation, specific figures, each rounded to the nearest half 
    cent, of the average, actual cost per mile during the period for 
    the use of a privately owned airplane, automobile, and motorcycle.
        ``(C) The Administrator shall report the specific figures to 
    Congress not later than five working days after the Administrator 
    makes the cost determination. Each such report shall be printed in 
    the Federal Register.
        ``(D) The mileage reimbursement rates contained in the 
    regulations prescribed under this section shall be adjusted within 
    thirty days following the submission of the report under 
    subparagraph (C) of this paragraph.''.
    (c) Section 5707 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (c)(2), and redesignating (c)(1) as subsection (c).
    SEC. 635. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING CANADA'S RESTRICTIONS ON 
      IMPORTS OF UNITED STATES CHICKENS.
    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
        (1) The United States chicken industry is a highly competitive 
    and growing industry which employs over 200,000 people, has over 
    25,000 family farms, and has significant production in over 28 
    States.
        (2) United States exports of chickens grew by 32 percent in 
    volume in 1993 and exports are increasingly important to the 
    continued economic vitality of the chicken industry.
        (3) Canada's chicken supply management system has severely 
    limited the importation of United States chickens to Canada since 
    it was imposed over 15 years ago, and its elimination would lead to 
    between $350,000,000 and $700,000,000 in new exports to Canada and 
    between 7,000 and 14,000 new jobs in the United States.
        (4) Canada's chicken supply management system protects Canadian 
    chicken growers while seriously hurting both United States and 
    Canadian food processors, retailers, and consumers.
        (5) The United States and Canada have a free trade agreement 
    which calls for the elimination of all tariffs and prohibits the 
    imposition of new tariffs on any goods traded bilaterally.
        (6) The goals of the Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture are 
    to liberalize and expand trade in agriculture and to eliminate 
    distortions to such trade.
        (7) Canada refused to negotiate the issue of elimination of its 
    severe trade restrictions on the importation of United States 
    chickens as part of the North American Free Trade Agreement 
    (hereafter referred to as ``NAFTA'') because the issue was part of 
    the global trade negotiations under the Uruguay Round.
        (8) The Uruguay Round has now concluded and the former and 
    current United States Trade Representative, as well as other key 
    cabinet-level officials, have stated that Canada will be in 
    violation of its NAFTA obligations if it does not eliminate its 
    newly imposed tariffs on chickens.
        (9) The United States chicken industry has waited patiently for 
    access to Canadian markets, which would be the United States 
    largest export market for chickens if it were fully open.
        (10) NAFTA should lead to free and completely open trade for 
    the chicken industry between the United States and Canada, as it 
    will between the United States and Mexico.
        (11) The United States and Canada are currently holding 
    discussions to resolve this and other bilateral agricultural 
    matters.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
        (1) the United States should reserve all current and future 
    rights to bring Canada into compliance with its tariff obligations 
    under NAFTA, including the use of bilateral or multilateral dispute 
    settlement proceedings; and
        (2) any agreement that is negotiated between the United States 
    and Canada on chickens should lead to--
            (A) substantial and immediate new market access 
        opportunities for United States chicken exports in excess of 
        the levels that have already been achieved; and
            (B) a commitment from Canada before the effective date of 
        the Uruguay Round Agreements which--
                (i) establishes a timeframe for the elimination of all 
            of Canada's tariffs on chickens; and
                (ii) provides for growth in market access levels for 
            United States chicken exports to Canada during the period 
            such tariffs are being phased out.
    Sec. 636. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including 
employees of the Executive Office of the President, not directly 
responsible for the discharge of official governmental tasks and 
duties: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the family 
of the President, Members of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State 
of a foreign country or their designee(s), persons providing assistance 
to the President for official purposes, or other individuals so 
designated by the President.
    Sec. 637. Congressional Award Program Medals.--Section 3 of the 
Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 802) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``gold, silver, and bronze''; and
            (B) by striking the last sentence and inserting the 
        following: ``Each medal shall consist of gold-plate over 
        bronze, rhodium over bronze, or bronze and shall be struck in 
        accordance with subsection (f).''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Congressional Award Program Medals.--
        ``(1) Design and striking.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
    strike the medals described in subsection (a) and awarded by the 
    Board under this Act. Subject to subsection (a), the medals shall 
    be of such quantity, design, and specifications as the Secretary of 
    the Treasury may determine, after consultation with the Board.
        ``(2) National medals.--The medals struck pursuant to this Act 
    are National medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United 
    States Code.
        ``(3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized to 
    be charged against the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund such 
    amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals 
    struck pursuant to this Act.''.
    Sec. 638. Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or 
his designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or 
persons with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the 
Executive Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are 
themselves subject to a program of individual random drug testing.
    Sec. 639. Section 3626, paragraph (j)(1), subparagraph (D), of 
title 39, United States Code is amended by--
        (a) deleting the final ``.'' from (II) and adding ``; and''; 
    and
        (b) adding ``(III) clause (i) shall not apply to space 
    advertising in mail matter that otherwise qualifies for rates under 
    former section 4452(b) or 4452(c) of this title, and satisfies the 
    content requirements established by the Postal Service for 
    periodical publications: Provided, That such changes in law shall 
    take effect immediately and shall stay in effect hereafter unless 
    the Congress enacts legislation on this matter prior to October 1, 
    1995.
    Sec. 640. In the administration of section 3702 of title 31, United 
States Code, the Comptroller General of the United States shall apply a 
6-year statute of limitations to any claim of a Federal employee under 
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) for claims 
filed before June 30, 1994.
    Sec. 641. The Bureau of the Public Debt is authorized to pay in 
advance or reimburse any Treasury organization, an amount not to exceed 
one year of salary and benefits for each Public Debt employee hired by 
that organization described in section 521(a) of this Act.
    Sec. 642. Chapter 63 of title 5 of the United States Code is 
amended by adding, following the word ``Forces'' in section 6326, a new 
section 6327 to read as follows:

``Sec. 6327. Absence in connection with funerals of fellow Federal law 
            enforcement officers

    ``A Federal law enforcement officer or a Federal firefighter may be 
excused from duty without loss of, or reduction in, pay or leave to 
which such officer is otherwise entitled, or credit for time or 
service, or performance or efficiency rating, to attend the funeral of 
a fellow Federal law enforcement officer or Federal firefighter, who 
was killed in the line of duty. When so excused from duty, attendance 
at such service shall for the purposes of section 1345(a) of title 31, 
be considered to be an official duty of the officer or firefighter.''.
    Sec. 643. Of the amount appropriated for ``Government Payment for 
Annuitants, Employee Life Insurance'' under this Act, such sums as may 
be necessary for such payments for the period September 15 through 30, 
1994 shall become available upon enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 644. (a) The Office of Management and Budget shall report to 
the Congress no later than November 1, 1994, for each agency for which 
the budgetary resources available to the agency in fiscal year 1995 
would be canceled in an appropriations Act to achieve savings in 
procurement and procurement-related expenses, of the manner in which 
these savings are to be achieved.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each agency for 
which the budgetary resources available to the agency in fiscal year 
1995 would be canceled in an appropriations Act to achieve savings in 
procurement and procurement-related expenses, such cancellation shall 
occur on November 30, 1994, or 30 days after the Office of Management 
and Budget submits the report required by subsection (a) of this 
section, whichever date is earlier.

                               TITLE VII

           VIOLENT CRIME CONTROL AND LAW ENFORCEMENT FUNDING

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Enforcement to oversee the 
implementation of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
1994 as it relates to the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Treasury, $2,400,000, to remain available until expended, to be derived 
from balances available in the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as 
authorized by title XXXI of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to implement the gateway network and 
other related financial intelligence and enforcement activities, 
$2,700,000, to remain available until expended to be derived from 
balances available in the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as 
authorized by title XXXI of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994.

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses for enforcing Federal firearms provisions 
and Public Law 103-159, $7,000,000 to be derived from balances 
available in the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as authorized by 
title XXXI of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
1994.


                  gang resistance education and training

    For grants to communities and police agencies for the establishment 
of gang resistance education and training programs to be designated by 
the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, $9,000,000 
to be derived from balances available in the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, as authorized by title XXXI of the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.

                     United States Customs Service


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses for expanding border and port enforcement 
activities, $4,000,000 to be derived from balances available in the 
Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as authorized by title XXXI of the 
Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.

                        Internal Revenue Service


                           tax law enforcement

    For tax law enforcement for combating public corruption and 
enhancing illegal tax enforcement activities, $7,000,000 to be derived 
from balances available in the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, as 
authorized by title XXXI of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994.

                      United States Secret Service


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses $6,600,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available for combating the counterfeiting of United States currency, 
and of which $1,600,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available for the hiring, training, and equipping of 18 additional 
full-time equivalent positions for improving forensic capabilities 
which will assist in the investigations of missing and exploited 
children to be derived from balances available in the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund, as authorized by title XXXI of the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury, Postal Service and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.