[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4603 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4603

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and related agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1995, and making supplemental appropriations for 
these departments and agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for 
other purposes, namely:

          TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs


                            justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended, and the Missing Children's Assistance Act, as 
amended, including salaries and expenses in connection therewith, and 
with the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as amended, $98,100,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title 
I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act, as amended by 
Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which $750,000 of the funds 
provided under the Missing Children's Program shall be made available 
as a grant to a national voluntary organization representing Alzheimer 
patients and families to plan, design, and operate the ``Safe Return'' 
Program.


                state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended, for State and Local Narcotics Control 
and Justice Assistance Improvements, notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 511 of said Act, $62,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 1001 of title I of said Act, as 
amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524), of which: (a) 
$50,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of chapter A 
of subpart 2 of part E of title I of said Act, for discretionary grants 
under the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance Programs; (b) $12,000,000 shall be available to carry out 
the provisions of chapter B of subpart 2 of part E of title I of said 
Act, for Correctional Options Grants: Provided, That of the funds made 
available in fiscal year 1995 under chapter A of subpart 2 of part E of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as 
amended: (a) $2,000,000 shall be available for the District of Columbia 
Metropolitan Area Drug Enforcement Task Force;P (b) not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be available to make grants or enter contracts to carry 
out the Denial of Federal Benefits program under the Controlled 
Substances Act, as amended by the Crime Control Act of 1990 (21 U.S.C. 
862); and (c) $500,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions 
of the Anti Car Theft Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-519), for grants to 
be used in combating motor vehicle theft, of which $200,000 shall be 
available pursuant to subtitle B of title I of said Act, and of which 
$300,000 shall be available pursuant to section 306 of title III of 
said Act: Provided further, That funds made available in fiscal year 
1995 under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, may be obligated for programs 
for the prosecution of driving while intoxicated charges and the 
enforcement of other laws relating to alcohol use and the operation of 
motor vehicles: Provided further, That funds made available in fiscal 
year 1995 under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, may be obligated for 
programs to assist States in the litigation processing of death penalty 
Federal habeas corpus petitions.


                        juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974, as amended, including salaries and expenses in connection 
therewith to be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for 
Justice Assistance, $144,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
as authorized by section 299 of part I of title II and section 506 of 
title V of said Act, as amended by Public Law 102-586, of which: (a) 
$100,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by parts A, B, 
and C of title II of said Act; (b) $10,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by sections 281 and 282 of part D of title II of 
said Act for prevention and treatment programs relating to juvenile 
gangs; (c) $10,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by 
section 285 of part E of title II of said Act; (d) $4,000,000 shall be 
available for expenses authorized by part G of title II of said Act for 
juvenile mentoring programs; and (e) $20,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by title V of said Act for incentive grants for 
local delinquency prevention programs.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, 
as amended, $11,250,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by sections 214B, 218, and 224 of said Act, of which: (a) 
$500,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by section 213 of 
said Act for regional children's advocacy centers; (b) $2,000,000 shall 
be available for expenses authorized by section 214 of said Act for 
local children's advocacy centers; (c) $2,000,000 shall be available 
for technical assistance and training, as authorized by section 214A of 
said Act, of which $1,500,000 is for a grant to the American Prosecutor 
Research Institute's National Center for Prosecution of Child Abuse, 
and of which $500,000 is for a grant to the National Network of Child 
Advocacy Centers; (d) $1,000,000 shall be available for training and 
technical assistance, as authorized by section 217(b)(1) of said Act 
for a grant to the National Court Appointed Special Advocates program; 
(e) $5,000,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by section 
217(b)(2) of said Act to initiate and expand local court appointed 
special advocate programs; and (f) $750,000, notwithstanding section 
224(b) of said Act, shall be available to develop and distribute model 
technical assistance and training programs to improve the handling of 
child abuse and neglect cases, as authorized by section 223(a) of said 
Act, for a grant to the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court 
Judges.


                     public safety officers benefits

    For payments authorized by part L of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such 
sums as are necessary, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340), 
and, in addition, $2,072,000, to remain available until expended, for 
payments as authorized by section 1201(b) of said Act.

                         General Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $120,185,000; of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $37,000 
are permanently canceled.


                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $30,500,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General; and for the acquisition, lease, 
maintenance and operation of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $24,000 are permanently canceled.

                       Weed and Seed Program Fund

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $13,456,000, to remain available until expended for 
intergovernmental agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, 
and contracts, with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in 
the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes and drug offenses 
in ``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for either 
reimbursements or transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department 
of Justice and other Federal agencies which shall be specified by the 
Attorney General to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program strategy: 
Provided, That funds designated by Congress through language for other 
Department of Justice appropriation accounts for ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities shall be managed and executed by the Attorney 
General through the Executive Office for Weed and Seed: Provided 
further, That the Attorney General may direct the use of other 
Department of Justice funds and personnel in support of ``Weed and 
Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney General notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in accordance with section 605 of this Act.


                           working capital fund

    Of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $387,000 
are permanently canceled.

                    United States Parole Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $7,451,000.

                            Legal Activities


             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the 
District of Columbia; $417,202,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 
for litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the funds available in this appropriation, not to 
exceed $50,099,000 shall remain available until expended for office 
automation systems for the legal divisions covered by this 
appropriation, and for the United States Attorneys, the Antitrust 
Division, and offices funded through ``Salaries and Expenses'', General 
Administration: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $1,000 shall be available to the United 
States National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1342, the Attorney General may accept on behalf of the United 
States and credit to this appropriation, gifts of money, personal 
property and services, for the purpose of hosting the International 
Criminal Police Organization's (INTERPOL) American Regional Conference 
in the United States during fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That of 
the offsetting collections credited to this account, $99,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,500,000 to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, as authorized by 
section 6601 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, 1989, as amended 
by Public Law 101-509 (104 Stat. 1289).


                  civil liberties public education fund

    For research contracts and public education activities, and to 
publish and distribute the hearings, findings, and recommendations of 
the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Internment of Civilians, 
pursuant to section 106(b) of the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (Public 
Law 100-383), $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $80,655,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $39,640,000 of offsetting collections derived 
from fees collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall 
be retained and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 1995, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 1995 appropriation estimated at not more than $41,015,000: 
Provided further, That any fees received in excess of $39,640,000 in 
fiscal year 1995 shall remain available until expended, but shall not 
be available for obligation until October 1, 1995: Provided further, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $155,000 
are permanently canceled.


              salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
Attorneys, including intergovernmental agreements, $829,723,000, of 
which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 
1996 for the purposes of (1) providing training of personnel of the 
Department of Justice in debt collection, (2) providing services to the 
Department of Justice related to locating debtors and their property, 
such as title searches, debtor skiptracing, asset searches, credit 
reports and other investigations, (3) paying the costs of the 
Department of Justice for the sale of property not covered by the sale 
proceeds, such as auctioneers' fees and expenses, maintenance and 
protection of property and businesses, advertising and title search and 
surveying costs, and (4) paying the costs of processing and tracking 
debts owed to the United States Government: Provided, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $8,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $10,000,000 of those funds available for automated 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That of the offsetting collections credited to this 
account, $180,000 are permanently canceled.
    In addition, for all reasonable and necessary expenses to implement 
the Attorney General's Violent Crime Task Force Initiatives in the 
United States Attorney Offices, $15,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, including the reasonable and necessary expenses of 
intergovernmental, interlocal, cooperative and task force agreements, 
however denominated, and contracts with State and local prosecutive and 
law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and prosecution 
of crimes of violence and drug trafficking crimes.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For the necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, 
$103,190,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), to remain available 
until expended, for activities authorized by section 115 of the 
Bankruptcy Judges, United States Trustees, and Family Farmer Bankruptcy 
Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-554), of which $62,593,000 shall be derived 
from the United States Trustee System Fund: Provided, That deposits to 
the Fund are available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not to exceed $40,597,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected pursuant to section 589a(f) of 
title 28, United States Code, as amended by section 111 of Public Law 
102-140 (105 Stat. 795), shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation: Provided further, That the $103,190,000 
herein appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 1995, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 1995 appropriation estimated at not more than $62,593,000: 
Provided further, That any of the aforementioned fees collected in 
excess of $40,597,000 in fiscal year 1995 shall remain available until 
expended, but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 
1995: Provided further, That of the offsetting collections credited to 
this account, $218,000 are permanently canceled.


       salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $830,000.


          salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service; 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of 
vehicles and aircraft, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
police-type use without regard to the general purchase price limitation 
for the current fiscal year; $396,847,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
561(i), of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $95,000 are permanently canceled.


                    support of united states prisoners

    For support of United States prisoners in the custody of the United 
States Marshals Service as authorized in 18 U.S.C. 4013, but not 
including expenses otherwise provided for in appropriations available 
to the Attorney General; $298,216,000, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
561(i), to remain available until expended.


                      fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, 
for expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $78,000,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $4,750,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovation, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto for protected witness safesites; of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored vehicles for transportation of protected 
witnesses; and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 may be made available 
for the purchase, installation and maintenance of a secure automated 
information network to store and retrieve the identities and locations 
of protected witnesses.


            salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
established by title X of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $20,379,000, of 
which not to exceed $10,001,000 shall remain available until expended 
to make payments in advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable 
agreements and other expenses necessary under section 501(c) of the 
Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-422; 94 Stat. 
1809) for the processing, care, maintenance, security, transportation 
and reception and placement in the United States of Cuban and Haitian 
entrants: Provided, That notwithstanding section 501(e)(2)(B) of the 
Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-422; 94 Stat. 
1810), funds may be expended for assistance with respect to Cuban and 
Haitian entrants as authorized under section 501(c) of such Act.


                          assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(A)(ii), (B), (C), 
(F), and (G), as amended, $55,000,000 to be derived from the Department 
of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.
    Amounts otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 are 
reduced by $92,000.

                    Radiation Exposure Compensation


                         administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $2,655,000.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement


                     organized crime drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include intergovernmental agreements 
with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in organized 
crime drug trafficking, $374,943,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this appropriation: 
Provided further, That any unobligated balances remaining available at 
the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the Attorney General for 
reallocation among participating organizations in succeeding fiscal 
years, subject to the reprogramming procedures described in section 605 
of this Act.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of crimes against the United States; including purchase for 
police-type use of not to exceed 1,815 passenger motor vehicles of 
which 1,300 will be for replacement only, without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance and operation 
of aircraft; and not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies 
of a confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and 
to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; $2,206,871,000, of which not to exceed $35,000,000 for 
automated data processing and telecommunications and technical 
investigative equipment and $1,000,000 for undercover operations shall 
remain available until September 30, 1996; of which not to exceed 
$14,000,000 for research and development related to investigative 
activities shall remain available until expended; of which not to 
exceed $10,000,000 is authorized to be made available for making 
payments or advances for expenses arising out of contractual or 
reimbursable agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
while engaged in cooperative activities related to violent crime, 
terrorism, organized crime, and drug investigations; of which 
$84,400,000, to remain available until expended, shall only be 
available to defray expenses for the automation of fingerprint 
identification services and related costs; and of which $1,500,000 
shall be available to maintain an independent program office dedicated 
solely to the relocation of the Criminal Justice Information Services 
Division and the automation of fingerprint identification services: 
Provided, That not to exceed $45,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That of the 
offsetting collections credited to this account, $572,000 are 
permanently canceled.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to 
be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; purchase of not to exceed 1,265 passenger motor vehicles, of 
which 1,115 will be for replacement only, for police-type use without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year; and acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
$757,204,000, of which not to exceed $1,800,000 for research shall 
remain available until expended, and of which not to exceed $4,000,000 
for purchase of evidence and payments for information, not to exceed 
$4,000,000 for contracting for ADP and telecommunications equipment, 
and not to exceed $2,000,000 for technical and laboratory equipment 
shall remain available until September 30, 1996, and of which not to 
exceed $50,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That of the offsetting collections 
credited to this account, $439,000 are permanently canceled.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
administration and enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, 
naturalization, and alien registration, including not to exceed $50,000 
to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character, to be 
expended under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under 
the certificate of, the Attorney General; purchase for police-type use 
(not to exceed 813 of which 177 are for replacement only) without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, 
maintenance and operation of aircraft; and research related to 
immigration enforcement; $1,102,671,000, of which not to exceed 
$400,000 for research shall remain available until expended, and of 
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available for costs associated 
with the Training program for basic officer training: Provided, That 
none of the funds available to the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service shall be available for administrative expenses to pay any 
employee overtime pay in an amount in excess of $25,000 during the 
calendar year beginning January 1, 1995: Provided further, That 
uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $1,240,000 are permanently 
canceled.


                               construction

    For planning, construction, renovation, equipping and maintenance 
of buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and 
alien registration, not otherwise provided for, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                        immigration emergency fund

    For necessary expenses of the immigration emergency fund as 
authorized by section 404(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
$75,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Federal Prison System


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions, including 
purchase (not to exceed 736 of which 383 are for replacement only) and 
hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles; and for the 
provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments; $2,356,404,000: Provided, That there may 
be transferred to the Health Resources and Services Administration such 
amounts as may be necessary, in the discretion of the Attorney General, 
for direct expenditures by that Administration for medical relief for 
inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions: Provided 
further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System (FPS), where 
necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal 
intermediary claims processor to determine the amounts payable to 
persons who, on behalf of the FPS, furnish health services to 
individuals committed to the custody of the FPS: Provided further, That 
uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $6,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$50,000,000 for the activation of new facilities shall remain available 
until September 30, 1996: Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended to make payments in advance for grants, 
contracts and reimbursable agreements and other expenses authorized by 
section 501(c) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 for the 
care and security in the United States of Cuban and Haitian entrants: 
Provided further, That any unobligated balances available for the care 
of Mariel Cuban detainees under the heading, ``Salaries and Expenses, 
Community Relations Service'' are transferred to this heading, and 
shall remain available until expended.


                    National Institute of Corrections

    For carrying out the provisions of sections 4351-4353 of title 18, 
United States Code, which established a National Institute of 
Corrections, and for the provision of technical assistance and advice 
on corrections related issues to foreign governments, $10,344,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                         buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; leasing the Oklahoma City Airport Trust Facility; purchase 
and acquisition of facilities and remodeling and equipping of such 
facilities for penal and correctional use, including all necessary 
expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; and 
constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
$280,494,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $14,074,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate 
work programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be 
used for work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, 
That not to exceed 10 per centum of the funds appropriated to 
``Buildings and Facilities'' in this Act or any other Act may be 
transferred to ``Salaries and Expenses'', Federal Prison System upon 
notification by the Attorney General to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in 
compliance with provisions set forth in section 605 of this Act: 
Provided further, That unless a notification as required under section 
605 of this Act is submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House and Senate, none of the funds in this Act for the Cooperative 
Agreement Program shall be available for a cooperative agreement with a 
State or local government for the housing of Federal prisoners and 
detainees when the cost per bed space for such cooperative agreement 
exceeds $50,000, and in addition, any cooperative agreement with a cost 
per bed space that exceeds $25,000 must remain in effect for no less 
than 15 years: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $9,903,000 shall be available for the renovation and 
construction of United States Marshals Service prisoner holding 
facilities.


                 federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in 
the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation, including 
purchase of (not to exceed five for replacement only) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles.


    limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $3,463,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which the said accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired 
or produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other 
property belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses in accordance with 
distributions, procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney 
General.
    Sec. 102. Subject to subsection (b) of section 102 of the 
Department of Justice and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, 
authorities contained in Public Law 96-132, ``The Department of Justice 
Appropriation Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1980'', shall remain in 
effect until the termination date of this Act or until the effective 
date of a Department of Justice Appropriation Authorization Act, 
whichever is earlier.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 104. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 103 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 105. Pursuant to the provisions of law set forth in 18 U.S.C. 
3071-3077, not to exceed $5,000,000 of the funds appropriated to the 
Department of Justice in this title shall be available for rewards to 
individuals who furnish information regarding acts of terrorism against 
a United States person or property.
    Sec. 106. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
this section shall not apply to any appropriation made available in 
title I of this Act under the heading, ``Office of Justice Programs, 
Justice Assistance'': Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to 
this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    Sec. 107. In fiscal year 1995, amounts in the Federal Prison 
System's Commissary Fund, Federal Prisons, which are not currently 
needed for operations, shall be kept on deposit or invested in 
obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States and all earnings on 
such investments shall be deposited in the Commissary Fund.
    Sec. 108. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the 
Department of Justice during fiscal year 1995, $23,830,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Attorney General shall allocate the amount of budgetary 
resources canceled among the Department's accounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in each such account shall 
be reduced by the amount allocated to such account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 109. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 or any other law, in 
litigation involving unusually high costs, the Department of Justice 
may receive and retain reimbursement for salaries and expenses, for 
fiscal year 1995 and thereafter, from any other governmental component 
being represented in the litigation.
    Sec. 110. Paragraph 524(c)(9) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by adding subparagraph (E), as follows:
        ``(E) Subject to the notification procedures contained in 
    section 605 of Public Law 103-121, and after satisfying the 
    transfer requirement in subparagraph (B) above, any excess 
    unobligated balance remaining in the Fund on September 30, 1994 
    shall be available to the Attorney General, without fiscal year 
    limitation, for any Federal law enforcement, litigative/
    prosecutive, and correctional activities, or any other authorized 
    purpose of the Department of Justice. Any amounts provided pursuant 
    to this section may be used under authorities available to the 
    organization receiving the funds.''.
    Sec. 111. Public Law 103-121 (107 Stat. 1161) is amended by 
inserting the words ``and California'' after the phrase ``for projects 
on the northern border of the United States''.
    Sec. 112. Section 1404(a)(5)(B) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 
(42 U.S.C. 10603(a)(5)(B)) is amended by striking ``1994'' and 
inserting ``1995''.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
        (a) No transfers may be made from Department of Justice 
    accounts other than those authorized in this Act, or in previous or 
    subsequent appropriations Acts for the Department of Justice, or in 
    part II of title 28 of the United States Code, or in section 10601 
    of title 42 of the United States Code.
        (b) No appropriation account within the Department of Justice 
    shall have its allocation of funds controlled by other than an 
    apportionment issued by the Office of Management and Budget or an 
    allotment advice issued by the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 114. Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President of the United States and the President-elect of Mexico should 
meet as soon as possible following the August elections in Mexico to 
discuss bilateral issues of mutual concern with the objective of 
deepening and strengthening the ties between the two neighbors, with 
emphasis on cooperation to establish equitable and effective regulation 
of the flow of citizens across the border between Mexico and the United 
States.
    Sec. 115. (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), an 
individual described in subsection (b) may be appointed 
noncompetitively, under a career or career-conditional appointment, to 
a position in the competitive service if--
        (1) the individual meets the qualification requirements 
    prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management for the position 
    to which appointed;
        (2) the last previous Federal employment of the individual was 
    as an employee of the Criminal Justice Information Services 
    Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
        (3) the individual is appointed to such position within two 
    years after separating from the Criminal Justice Information 
    Services Division.
    (b) Individual Described.--An individual described in this 
subsection is an individual who--
        (1) on the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (A) is an employee of the Criminal Justice Information 
        Services Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
            (B) is serving in an appointed position (i) to be relocated 
        from Washington, District of Columbia, to Clarksburg, West 
        Virginia, and (ii) that is excepted by law or regulation from 
        the competitive service; and
        (2) has not relocated with his or her position in the Criminal 
    Justice Information Services Division to Clarksburg, West Virginia.
    (c) Application.--This section does not apply to an individual 
serving on the date of the enactment of this Act in an appointed 
position on a temporary or term basis.
    (d) This section may be cited as the ``Criminal Justice Information 
Services Placement Assistance Act''.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,000,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to 
employ in excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the 
Excepted Service exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 
75 billable days, with the exception of the Chairman who is permitted 
125 billable days.

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); nonmonetary awards to 
private citizens; not to exceed $26,500,000, for payments to State and 
local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant to 
title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 and 
14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991; 
$233,000,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds: Provided further, That of the 
budgetary resources available in fiscal year 1995 in this account, 
$242,000 are permanently canceled: Provided further, That amounts 
available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in this 
account are reduced by such amount: Provided further, That as used 
herein, ``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                   Federal Communications Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-02; not to exceed $600,000 for land and 
structures; not to exceed $500,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception 
and representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed sixteen) and hire 
of motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109; $185,232,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 1996, for research and policy 
studies: Provided, That $116,400,000 of offsetting collections shall be 
assessed and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the 
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used 
for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 1995, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 1995 appropriation estimated at $68,832,000: Provided further, 
That any offsetting collections received in excess of $116,400,000 in 
fiscal year 1995 shall remain available until expended, but shall not 
be available for obligation until October 1, 1995: Provided further, 
That of the budgetary resources available in fiscal year 1995 in this 
account, $197,000 are permanently canceled: Provided further, That 
amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
this account are reduced by such amount: Provided further, That as used 
herein, ``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2): Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used to repeal, to 
retroactively apply changes in, or to continue a reexamination of, the 
policies of the Federal Communications Commission with respect to 
comparative licensing, distress sales and tax certificates granted 
under 26 U.S.C. 1071, to expand minority ownership of broadcasting 
licenses, including those established in the Statement of Policy on 
Minority Ownership of Broadcasting Facilities, 68 F.C.C. 2d 979 and 69 
F.C.C. 2d 1591, as amended 52 R.R. 2d 1313 (1982) and Mid-Florida 
Television Corp., 69 F.C.C. 2d 607 (Rev. Bd. 1978), which were 
effective prior to September 12, 1986, other than to close MM Docket 
No. 86-484 with a reinstatement of prior policy and a lifting of 
suspension of any sales, licenses, applications, or proceedings, which 
were suspended pending the conclusion of the inquiry: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the Federal Communications 
Commission by this Act may be used to diminish the number of VHF 
channel assignments reserved for noncommercial educational television 
stations in the Television Table of Assignments (section 73.606 of 
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations): Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to repeal, to 
retroactively apply changes in, or to begin or continue a reexamination 
of the rules and the policies established to administer such rules of 
the Federal Communications Commission as set forth at section 
73.3555(d) of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, other than 
to amend policies with respect to waivers of the portion of section 
73.3555(d) that concerns cross-ownership of a daily newspaper and an AM 
or FM radio broadcast station.

                      Federal Maritime Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as 
amended (46 App. U.S.C. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-02; $18,569,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $94,428,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, not to exceed $39,640,000 of offsetting 
collections derived from fees collected for premerger notification 
filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18(a)) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such 
offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 1995, so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1995 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $54,788,000: Provided further, That any fees received in excess of 
$39,640,000 in fiscal year 1995 shall remain available until expended, 
but shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 1995: 
Provided further, That section 605 of Public Law 101-162 (103 Stat. 
1031), as amended, is further amended by striking ``$25,000'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``$45,000'': Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available to the Federal Trade Commission shall be 
available for obligation for expenses authorized by section 151 of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (Public 
Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2282-2285): Provided further, That of the 
budgetary resources available in fiscal year 1995 in this account, 
$145,000 are permanently canceled: Provided further, That amounts 
available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in this 
account are reduced by such amount: Provided further, That as used 
herein, ``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2): Provided further, That the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph are subject to the limitations and 
provisions of sections 10(a) and 10(c) (notwithstanding section 10(e)), 
11(b), 18, and 20 of the Federal Trade Commission Improvements Act of 
1980 (Public Law 96-252; 94 Stat. 374), except that this proviso shall 
cease to be effective upon enactment of an Act authorizing 
appropriations for the Federal Trade Commission for fiscal year 1995.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $74,856,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 
may be used toward funding a permanent secretariat for the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions, and of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for expenses for consultations 
and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign governmental and 
other regulatory officials, members of their delegations, appropriate 
representatives and staff to exchange views concerning developments 
relating to securities matters, development and implementation of 
cooperation agreements concerning securities matters and provision of 
technical assistance for the development of foreign securities markets, 
such expenses to include necessary logistic and administrative expenses 
and the expenses of Commission staff and foreign invitees in attendance 
at such consultations and meetings including: (i) such incidental 
expenses as meals taken in the course of such attendance, (ii) any 
travel or transportation to or from such meetings, and (iii) any other 
related lodging or subsistence: Provided, That of the budgetary 
resources available in fiscal year 1995 in this account, $902,000 are 
permanently canceled: Provided further, That amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in this account are 
reduced by such amount: Provided further, That as used herein, 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    In addition, upon enactment of legislation amending the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.), and subject to the 
schedule of fees contained in such legislation, such fees may be 
collected and shall be deposited as an offsetting collection to this 
appropriation to recover the costs of registration, supervision, and 
regulation of investment advisers and their activities: Provided, That 
such fees shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
any such fees collected in excess of $8,595,000 shall not be available 
for obligation until October 1, 1995.

                        State Justice Institute


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by The State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-572 (106 Stat. 4515-4516)), $13,550,000 to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995''.

                    TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Institute of Standards and Technology


              scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $265,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $8,500,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund''.


                      industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, 
the Advanced Technology Program and the Quality Program of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, $525,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,710,000 may be 
transferred to the ``Working Capital Fund'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the time limitations imposed by 15 U.S.C. 278k(c) (1) 
and (5) on the duration of Federal financial assistance that may be 
awarded by the Secretary of Commerce to Regional Centers for the 
Transfer of Manufacturing Technology (``Centers''), such Federal 
financial assistance for a Center may continue beyond six years and may 
be renewed for additional periods, not to exceed three years each, at a 
rate not to exceed one-third of the Center's total annual costs, 
subject before any such renewal to a positive evaluation of the Center 
and to a finding by the Secretary of Commerce that continuation of 
Federal funding to that Center is in the best interest of the Regional 
Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology Program.


                   construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, not otherwise provided for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 15 
U.S.C. 278c-278e, $64,686,000, to remain available until expended.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                   operations, research, and facilities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including acquisition, 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft; not to exceed 439 
commissioned officers on the active list; as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343 and 1344; construction of facilities, including initial equipment 
as authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; grants, contracts, or other payments 
to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
pursuant to cooperative agreements; and alteration, modernization, and 
relocation of facilities as authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i; 
$1,835,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 but consistent with other existing law, 
in addition to fees currently being assessed and collected, additional 
fees shall be assessed, collected, and credited to this appropriation 
as offsetting collections to be available until expended, to recover 
the costs of administering marine sanctuary and aeronautical charting 
programs: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as such additional fees are received 
during fiscal year 1995, so as to result in a final general fund 
appropriation estimated at not more than $1,829,000,000: Provided 
further, That any such additional fees received in excess of $6,000,000 
in fiscal year 1995 shall not be available for obligation until October 
1, 1995: Provided further, That in addition, $55,500,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from the fund entitled ``Promote and Develop 
Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American Fisheries'': 
Provided further, That hereafter all receipts received from the sale of 
aeronautical charts that result from an increase in the price of 
individual charts above the level in effect for such charts on 
September 30, 1993, shall be deposited in this account as an offsetting 
collection and shall be available for obligation: Provided further, 
That grants to States pursuant to sections 306 and 306(a) of the 
Coastal Zone Management Act, as amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000 
and shall not be less than $500,000, and any grant made in fiscal year 
1995 to a State which did not receive funding under this program in 
fiscal year 1994 shall not exceed $800,000: Provided further, That of 
the total amount appropriated in this paragraph, $16,000,000 shall be 
available for the integrated program office for convergence of civilian 
and military polar-orbiting meteorological satellites: Provided 
further, That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, 
$123,000 are permanently canceled.


                       coastal zone management fund

    Of amounts collected pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1456a, not to exceed 
$7,800,000, for purposes set forth in 16 U.S.C. 1456a(b)(2).


                               construction

    For repair and modification of, and additions to, existing 
facilities and construction of new facilities, and for facility 
planning and design and land acquisition not otherwise provided for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, $97,600,000; of which 
$2,500,000 is for a grant to the City of Kansas City, Missouri, for 
development of a weather and environmental center; and of which the 
following amounts shall be available to carry out continuing 
construction activities: $3,500,000 for a grant for construction of a 
Multispecies Aquaculture Center in the State of New Jersey; $1,000,000 
for a grant to the Mystic Seaport, Mystic, Connecticut, for a maritime 
education center; $5,200,000 for a grant to the Center for 
Interdisciplinary Research and Education in Indiana; and $2,000,000 for 
a grant for the construction of the Massachusetts Biotechnology 
Research Institute in Boston; and all sums in this paragraph are to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That subject to the 
availability of appropriations provided in advance for these purposes, 
the Secretary of Commerce is granted approval to enter into a contract 
with Florida State University which shall: (1) provide the University 
with funds to assist in the construction and associated expenses, 
including parking, of a meteorological sciences building on its 
Tallahassee, Florida, campus; and (2) include a space agreement with 
the University at no cost to the Government, other than for operational 
expenses, for space in this building for use as the Weather Forecast 
Office: Provided further, That if the Secretary of Commerce determines 
that the property that was transferred to the United States by the City 
of Clovis, California, by a deed dated November 20, 1984, for use as a 
weather forecasting office, is no longer needed for such use, title to 
that property, and improvements thereto, shall revert to the City of 
Clovis, California.


             fleet modernization, shipbuilding and conversion

    For expenses necessary for the repair, construction, acquisition, 
leasing, or conversion of vessels, including related equipment to 
maintain and modernize the existing fleet and to continue planning the 
modernization of the fleet, for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, $23,040,000, to remain available until expended.


                  Fishing Vessel Obligations Guarantees

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990, of guaranteed loans authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936, as amended, $250,000: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading may be used to guarantee loans 
for the purchase of any new or existing fishing vessel.


             Fishing Vessel and Gear Damage Compensation Fund

    For carrying out the provisions of section 3 of Public Law 95-376, 
not to exceed $1,273,000 to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to 22 U.S.C. 1980 (b) and (f), to remain available until expended.


                       fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $999,000 to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.


                      foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as amended 
(Public Law 100-627) and the American Fisheries Promotion Act (Public 
Law 96-561), there are appropriated from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to 
exceed $400,000, to remain available until expended.

                         General Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official entertainment, $36,510,000: Provided, That of the 
offsetting collections credited to this account, $17,000 are 
permanently canceled.


                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$16,900,000.

                          Bureau of the Census


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, 
$136,000,000: Provided, That of the offsetting collections credited to 
this account, $225,000 are permanently canceled.


                      periodic censuses and programs

    For expenses necessary to collect and publish statistics for 
periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $142,576,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$46,937,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, $2,000 are 
permanently canceled.


          economics and statistics administration revolving fund

    There is hereby established the Economics and Statistics 
Administration Revolving Fund which shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation. For initial capitalization, there is appropriated 
$1,677,000 to the Fund: Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce is 
authorized to disseminate economic and statistical data products as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 1525-1527 and, notwithstanding 15 U.S.C. 4912, 
charge fees necessary to recover the full costs incurred in their 
production. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, receipts received from 
these data dissemination activities shall be credited to this account 
as offsetting collections, to be available for carrying out these 
purposes without further appropriation.

                   International Trade Administration


                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms to include a grant of $9,000,000 for the National Textile 
Center University Consortium, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and 
3703; full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate families 
of employees stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted 
overseas; travel and transportation of employees of the United States 
and Foreign Commercial Service between two points abroad, without 
regard to 49 U.S.C. 1517; employment of Americans and aliens by 
contract for services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 
ten years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase 
or construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign 
countries; not to exceed $327,000 for official representation expenses 
abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, 
not to exceed $30,000 per vehicle; obtain insurance on official motor 
vehicles; and rent tie lines and teletype equipment; $266,450,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which $930,000 is for a grant to 
the Michigan Biotechnology Institute; $1,000,000 is for a grant to the 
Emerging Technologies Institute in Sacramento, California; $1,700,000 
is for a grant to the Massachusetts Biotechnology Research Institute; 
$1,200,000 is for a grant to the Center for Global Competitiveness in 
Loretto, Pennsylvania; and $3,400,000 is for a grant to the Textile 
Clothing Technology Center: Provided, That the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities without regard to 
15 U.S.C. 4912; and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions 
under the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange 
Act shall include payment for assessments for services provided as part 
of these activities.

                         Export Administration


                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services 
abroad; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding ten years, and 
expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; payment of tort claims, 
in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when 
such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $15,000 for 
official representation expenses abroad; awards of compensation to 
informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, and as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with 
special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to 
any price limitation otherwise established by law; $38,823,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the provisions of the 
first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) 
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities.

                  Minority Business Development Agency


                      minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $43,900,000, of which $31,872,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $600,000 is available only for 
a grant for the NTTC to implement a Minority Apprenticeship Program in 
Technology Management; $100,000 is available only for a grant for a 
Minority Economic Opportunity Center in Cleveland, Ohio; and $200,000 
is available only for a grant for the U.S.-Africa Trade and Technology 
Center in Savannah, Georgia.

            United States Travel and Tourism Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Travel and Tourism 
Administration including travel and tourism promotional activities 
abroad for travel to the United States and its possessions without 
regard to 44 U.S.C. 501, 3702 and 3703, including employment of 
American citizens and aliens by contract for services abroad; rental of 
space abroad for periods not exceeding five years, and expenses of 
alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction of 
temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; advance of 
funds under contracts abroad; payment of tort claims in the manner 
authorized in the first paragraph of 28 U.S.C. 2672, when such claims 
arise in foreign countries; and not to exceed $15,000 for official 
representation expenses abroad; $16,407,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph shall be available to carry out the provisions of section 
203(a) of the International Travel Act of 1961, as amended.

                      Patent and Trademark Office


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Patent and Trademark Office provided 
for by law, including defense of suits instituted against the 
Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks; $83,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $6,000,000 is available only for the 
acquisition of high performance computing capability: Provided, That of 
the offsetting collections credited to this account, $2,195,000 are 
permanently canceled: Provided further, That the funds made available 
under this heading are to be derived from deposits in the Patent and 
Trademark Office Fee Surcharge Fund as authorized by law: Provided 
further, That the amounts made available under the Fund shall not 
exceed amounts deposited; and such fees as shall be collected pursuant 
to 15 U.S.C. 1113 and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376, shall remain available 
until expended.

                       Technology Administration

       Under Secretary for Technology/Office of Technology Policy


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology/
Office of Technology Policy, $10,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1996.

                 National Technical Information Service


                           ntis revolving fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the American Technology 
Preeminence Act, $8,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the offsetting collections credited to this account, 
$140,000 are permanently canceled.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration, $20,981,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the offsetting 
collections credited to this account, $2,000 are permanently canceled: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary 
of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting collections 
all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from other Government 
agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications research, 
engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of the NTIA in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

                          public Broadcasting


                  facilities, planning and construction

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $29,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act, as amended: Provided, That not 
to exceed $2,200,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of said Act, the prior 
year unobligated balances may be made available for grants for projects 
for which applications have been submitted and approved during any 
fiscal year: Provided further, That notwithstanding the provisions of 
sections 391 and 392 of the Communications Act, as amended, not to 
exceed $1,500,000 appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for 
the Pan-Pacific Educational and Cultural Experiments by Satellite 
program (PEACESAT).


                    information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $64,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of said Act, as amended: Provided, That not 
to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available for program administration and 
other support activities as authorized by section 391 of said Act 
including support of the Advisory Council on National Information 
Infrastructure: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
herein, not to exceed 5 percent may be available for telecommunications 
research activities for projects related directly to the development of 
a national information infrastructure: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 392(a) and 392(c) of such 
Act, these funds may be used for the planning and construction of 
telecommunications networks for the provision of educational, cultural, 
health care, public information, public safety or other social 
services.

            endowment for children's educational television

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the National 
Endowment for Children's Educational Television Act of 1990, title II 
of Public Law 101-437, including costs for contracts, grants and 
administrative expenses, $2,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  Economic Development Administration


                 economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, Public 
Law 91-304, and such laws that were in effect immediately before 
September 30, 1982, and for trade adjustment assistance, $408,024,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading may be used directly or indirectly for 
attorneys' or consultants' fees in connection with securing grants and 
contracts made by the Economic Development Administration: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Commerce may provide financial assistance for projects to 
be located on military installations closed or scheduled for closure or 
realignment to grantees eligible for assistance under the Public Works 
and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, without it being 
required that the grantee have title or ability to obtain a lease for 
the property, for the useful life of the project, when in the opinion 
of the Secretary of Commerce, such financial assistance is necessary 
for the economic development of the area: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Commerce may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, 
consult with the Secretary of Defense regarding the title to land on 
military installations closed or scheduled for closure or realignment.


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $32,205,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title 
I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency Drought 
Relief Act of 1977.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act 
shall be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 
26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed 
by said Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for 
advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the certification 
of officials designated by the Secretary that such payments are in the 
public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that 
are under the control of the United States Air Force or the United 
States Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds provided in this or any previous Act, 
or hereinafter made available to the Department of Commerce shall be 
available to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other fund or 
account of the Treasury to pay for any expenses paid before October 1, 
1992, as authorized by section 8501 of title 5, United States Code, for 
services performed after April 20, 1990, by individuals appointed to 
temporary positions within the Bureau of the Census for purposes 
relating to the 1990 decennial census of population.
    Sec. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the 
Department of Commerce during fiscal year 1995, $12,355,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Secretary of Commerce shall allocate the amount of 
budgetary resources canceled among the Department's accounts available 
for procurement and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in each such account shall 
be reduced by the amount allocated to such account.
    (c) For the purpose of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).

                        TITLE III--THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles 
as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve, $24,240,000.


                     care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the Act 
approved May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $3,000,000, of which $260,000 
shall remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $13,438,000.

               United States Court of International Trade


                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and eight judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$11,685,000.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services


                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges 
of the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the 
United States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate 
judges, and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary 
not otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $2,340,127,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $14,454,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects; of which 
not to exceed $11,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects; and of which $500,000 is to remain available 
until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, and newspapers, 
and all other legal reference materials, including subscriptions.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,250,000 to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.


                            defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations, the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended, the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act (18 U.S.C. 3006A(e)), the compensation (in 
accordance with Criminal Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel, the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians ad litem 
acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or incompetent offenders 
in connection with transfers from the United States to foreign 
countries with which the United States has a treaty for the execution 
of penal sentences, and the compensation of attorneys appointed to 
represent jurors in civil actions for the protection of their 
employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d), $250,000,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i): Provided, 
That not to exceed $19,800,000 shall be available for Death Penalty 
Resource Centers.


                     fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)); $59,346,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.


                              court security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment and 
protective services for the United States Courts in courtrooms and 
adjacent areas, including building ingress-egress control, inspection 
of packages, directed security patrols, and other similar activities as 
authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access to 
Justice Act (Public Law 100-702); $97,000,000, to be expended directly 
or transferred to the United States Marshals Service which shall be 
responsible for administering elements of the Judicial Security Program 
consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of 
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney 
General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $47,500,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $18,828,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 1996, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                       Judicial Retirement Funds


                     payment to judiciary trust funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $21,000,000, to the Judicial Survivors' 
Annuities Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), $6,900,000, and to 
the United States Court of Federal Claims Judges' Retirement Fund, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 178(l), $575,000.

                  United States Sentencing Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $8,800,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                   General Provisions--The Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of the Special Court established under the 
Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973, Public Law 93-236.
    Sec. 303. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 304. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States: Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $10,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in his capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    This title may be cited as ``The Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
1995''.

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Maritime Administration


                     operating-differential subsidies

                   (liquidation of contract authority)

    For the payment of obligations incurred for operating-differential 
subsidies as authorized by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, 
$214,356,000, to remain available until expended.


                         operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $76,100,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Transportation may use proceeds derived from the sale or 
disposal of National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels that are currently 
collected and retained by the Maritime Administration, to be used for 
facility and ship maintenance, modernization and repair, conversion, 
acquisition of equipment, and fuel costs necessary to maintain training 
at the United States Merchant Marine Academy and State maritime 
academies: Provided further, That reimbursements may be made to this 
appropriation from receipts to the ``Federal Ship Financing Fund'' for 
administrative expenses in support of that program in addition to any 
amount heretofore appropriated.
    Of the budgetary resources available to the Maritime Administration 
of the Department of Transportation during fiscal year 1995, $360,000 
are permanently canceled. The Secretary of Transportation shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the 
Department's Maritime Administration accounts available for procurement 
and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for procurement and 
procurement-related expenses in each such account shall be reduced by 
the amount allocated to such account. For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the definition of ``procurement'' includes all stages of the 
process of acquiring property or services, beginning with the process 
of determining a need for a product or services and ending with 
contract completion and closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).


                           ready reserve force

                          (including rescission)

    For necessary expenses to acquire and maintain a surge shipping 
capability in the National Defense Reserve Fleet in an advanced state 
of readiness and for related programs, $150,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That reimbursement may be made to 
the Operations and Training appropriation for expenses related to this 
program.
    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$158,000,000 are rescinded.


           maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, not to exceed $2,000,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for Operations and 
Training.


            administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year 
from the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 
1936, or otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations 
contained in this Act or in any prior appropriation Act, and all 
receipts which otherwise would be deposited to the credit of said fund 
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

                    Commission on Immigration Reform


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Immigration Reform 
pursuant to section 141(f) of the Immigration Act of 1990, $1,894,000, 
to remain available until expended.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,090,000, 
to remain available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public 
Law 99-7.

                     Competitiveness Policy Council


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Competitiveness Policy Council as 
authorized by section 5209 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act 
of 1988, $1,000,000 to remain available until expended.

                        Marine Mammal Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,384,000.

           Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal 
Holiday Commission, as authorized by Public Law 98-399, as amended, 
$300,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$20,949,000, of which $2,500,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     Small Business Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 101-574, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $258,175,000 of which $15,000,000 shall be 
available to implement section 24 of the Small Business Act, as 
amended, including $500,000 to be made available only to the City of 
Buffalo, New York: Provided, That section 24(e) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 651(e)) is amended by striking ``fiscal years 1992 
through 1994'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``fiscal years 1995 
through 1997'': Provided further, That section 112(c)(2) of the Small 
Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendment Act of 1988 (102 
Stat. 2996) is amended by striking ``October 1, 1994'' and inserting 
``October 1, 1997'': Provided further, That the Administrator is 
authorized to charge fees to cover the cost of publications developed 
by the Small Business Administraton; certain loan servicing activities; 
and installing and servicing the agency's computer-based electronic 
bulletin board: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to this 
account, to be available for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriation. Of the total amount appropriated in this 
paragraph, $77,375,000 shall be available for grants for performance in 
fiscal year 1995 or fiscal year 1996 for Small Business Development 
Centers as authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act, as 
amended, of which $3,375,000 shall be available to carry out Defense 
economic transition technical assistance as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 
648(c)(3)(G): Provided further, That not more than $500,000 of the 
total amount in this paragraph shall be available to pay the expenses 
of the National Small Business Development Center Advisory Board and to 
reimburse Centers for participating in evaluations as provided in 
section 20(a) of such Act, and to maintain a clearinghouse as provided 
in section 21(g)(2) of such Act.
    None of the funds appropriated for the Small Business 
Administration under this Act may be used to impose any new or 
increased user fee or management assistance fee for the Small Business 
Development Center Program.


                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$8,500,000.


                      business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $9,596,000, and for the cost of 
guaranteed loans, $278,305,000, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note, of 
which $1,216,000, to be available until expended, shall be for the 
Microloan Guarantee Program, and of which the following shall remain 
available until September 30, 1996: $15,990,000 for the Small Business 
Investment Company Debentures Program; $7,398,000 for the Specialized 
Small Business Investment Company Program; and $20,457,000 for the 
Small Business Investment Company Participating Securities Program, and 
of which $30,000,000 shall be used to pre-pay the Federal Financing 
Bank for debentures guaranteed by the Administration pursuant to 
section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act: Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. In addition, 
for expenses not otherwise provided for, of the Small Business 
Administration, $27,350,000 of which: $750,000 shall be available for a 
grant to the North Carolina Biotechnology Center for a demonstration 
project which would integrate small business formation and preparation 
of a biotechnology workforce; $500,000 shall be available for 
continuation of a grant to the Van Emmons Population Marketing Analysis 
Center, Towanda, Pennsylvania, for an integrated small business data 
base to assist Appalachian Region small businesses; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for continuation of a grant to the City of Prestonsburg, 
Kentucky, for small business development assistance; $375,000 shall be 
available for a grant to the State of Nebraska for establishing the 
Nebraska Micro Enterprise Initiative to include a clearinghouse and 
training and counseling programs; $3,000,000 shall be available for 
continuation of a grant to the National Center for Genome Resources in 
New Mexico to provide consulting assistance, information and related 
services to small businesses and for related purposes; $1,000,000 shall 
be available for continuation of a grant for the Genesis Small Business 
Incubator Facility, Fayetteville, Arkansas; $500,000 shall be available 
for a grant to an entity in Bozeman, Montana, to establish a small 
business assistance center to assist small businesses to qualify and 
participate in the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program; 
$1,000,000 shall be available for continuation of a grant to the Center 
for Entrepreneurial Opportunity in Greensburg, Pennsylvania, to provide 
for a small business consulting and assistance center for 
entrepreneurial opportunities; $1,500,000 for a grant to a consortium 
in Buffalo, New York, to provide assistance to small businesses for 
technical improvement of commercial industrial products; $250,000 shall 
be available for a grant to the Western Massachusetts Enterprise Fund 
to expand microlending to entrepreneurs and small businesses; $400,000 
shall be available for continuation of a grant to the State of Ohio, 
Department of Development, International Trade Division to assist small 
businesses to expand export opportunities; $1,000,000 shall be 
available for continuation of a grant to assist the development of a 
small business consulting, information and assistance center in Hazard, 
Kentucky; $2,000,000 shall be available for continuation of a grant to 
the WVHTC Foundation for build-out, equipment, and operations costs for 
a small business incubator facility and for an outreach grant program 
to assist small business economic development; $125,000 shall be 
available for a grant to an organization in Bowling Green, Kentucky, to 
establish a small business pilot program to convert municipal waste 
into a marketable product; $2,500,000 shall be available for a grant to 
the City of Carbondale, Pennsylvania, to establish and operate a small 
business incubator facility; $500,000 shall be available for 
continuation of a grant to the New York City Public Library for 
construction and related costs for the Industry and Business Library; 
$200,000 shall be available for continuation of a grant to assist the 
Small Business Institute program of the Small Business Administration 
to establish and operate a National Data Center Small Business 
Institute program in Conway, Arkansas; $4,000,000 shall be available 
for a grant to the Unified Technology Center in Cleveland, Ohio, to 
assist small businesses in the design of high quality environmentally 
sound processes; $1,250,000 shall be available for a grant to the City 
of Whitesburg, Kentucky, to develop and equip a facility to promote the 
development of small businesses and enhance economic development; 
$2,500,000 shall be available for a grant to the City of Wheeling, West 
Virginia, for the Oglebay Small Business Rural Development Center; 
$1,000,000 shall be available for a grant for a Small Business 
Development Institute in North Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for a 
facility to assist and train minority small businesses; $250,000 shall 
be available for continuation of a grant to the City of Espanola, New 
Mexico, for the second phase of the development of the Espanola Plaza 
project to assist small businesses and enhance economic development; 
$1,000,000 shall be available for a grant to North Central West 
Virginia Community Action to establish a small business rural 
enterprise training institute and microloan demonstration program; 
$500,000 shall be available for a grant to the Mississippi Delta Small 
Business Technology Project, Little Rock, Arkansas, for technology 
education for small business owners and employees; and $250,000 shall 
be available for a grant to establish a small business incubator 
facility in West Charlotte, North Carolina.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $97,000,000, which may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the 
Small Business Act, as amended, $52,153,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
in this or any other Act may be used for the cost of direct loans to 
any borrower under section 7(b) of the Small Business Act to relocate 
voluntarily outside the business area in which the disaster has 
occurred.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $78,000,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.
    In addition, for the cost of emergency disaster loans and 
associated administrative expenses, $125,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds, or any portion thereof, 
shall be available beginning in fiscal year 1995 to the extent that the 
President notifies the Congress of his designation of any or all of 
these amounts as emergency requirements under the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990: Provided further, That Congress hereby designates these 
amounts as emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D).


                  surety bond guarantees revolving fund

    For additional capital for the ``Surety Bond Guarantees Revolving 
Fund'', authorized by the Small Business Investment Act, as amended, 
$5,369,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note.


         administrative provisions--small business administration

    Sec. 401. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the Small 
Business Administration during fiscal year 1995, $1,021,000 are 
permanently canceled.
    (b) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the agency's 
accounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses. 
Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated to such 
account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                       Legal Services Corporation


                Payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$415,000,000; of which $350,700,000 is for basic field programs; 
$9,390,000 is for Native American programs; $13,830,000 is for migrant 
programs; $1,435,000 is for law school clinics; $1,305,000 is for 
supplemental field programs; $870,000 is for regional training centers; 
$10,800,000 is for national support; $11,585,000 is for State support; 
$785,000 is for client initiatives; $1,145,000 is for the 
Clearinghouse; $655,000 is for computer assisted legal research 
regional centers; and $12,500,000 is for Corporation management and 
administration.


           administrative provision--legal services corporation

    Sec. 403. (a) Funds appropriated under this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation and distributed to each grantee funded in fiscal 
year 1995, pursuant to the number of poor people determined by the 
Bureau of the Census to be within its geographical area, shall be 
distributed in the following order:
        (1) Grants from the Legal Services Corporation and contracts 
    entered into with the Legal Services Corporation under section 
    1006(a)(1) of the Legal Services Corporation Act, as amended, shall 
    be maintained in fiscal year 1995 at not less than the annual level 
    at which each grantee and contractor was funded in fiscal year 1994 
    pursuant to Public Law 103-121.
        (2) 50 percent of new basic field funds shall be awarded to 
    grantees and contractors funded at the lowest levels per-poor-
    person (calculated for each grantee or contractor by dividing each 
    such grantee or contractor's fiscal year 1994 grant level by the 
    number of poor persons within its geographical area under the 1990 
    census) so as to fund the largest number of programs possible at an 
    equal per-poor-person amount.
        (3) 50 percent of new basic field funds shall be allocated to 
    grantees and contractors in an amount that is proportionate to the 
    number of poor people in such grantee or contractor's service area 
    as enumerated in the 1990 census.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or 
limited by or contrary to any of the provisions of--
        (1) section 607 of Public Law 101-515, and that all funds 
    appropriated for the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to 
    the same terms and conditions as set forth in section 607 of Public 
    Law 101-515, except that the funding formulas and provisos 15, 20 
    and 22 shall not apply, and all references to ``1991'' in section 
    607 of Public Law 101-515 shall be deemed to be ``1995'', unless 
    subparagraph (2) applies; and
        (2) authorizing legislation for fiscal year 1995 for the Legal 
    Services Corporation that is enacted into law.

           TITLE V--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs


                     diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including expenses authorized by 
the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended; 
representation to certain international organizations in which the 
United States participates pursuant to treaties, ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, or specific Acts of Congress; 
acquisition by exchange or purchase of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343, 40 U.S.C. 481(c) and 22 U.S.C. 2674; and 
for expenses of general administration $1,731,416,000: Provided, That 
hereafter all receipts received from a new charge from expedited 
passport processing shall be deposited in this account as an offsetting 
collection and shall be available until expended: Provided further, 
That hereafter all receipts received from an increase in the charge for 
Immigrant Visas in effect on September 30, 1994, caused by processing 
an applicant's fingerprints, shall be deposited in this account as an 
offsetting collection and shall remain available until expended. Of the 
funds appropriated under this heading: not to exceed $4,000,000 shall 
be available for grants, contracts, and other activities to conduct 
research and promote international cooperation and environmental and 
other scientific issues; not to exceed $600,000 shall be available to 
carry out the activities of the Commission on Protecting and Reducing 
Government Secrecy; and not to exceed $300,000 shall be available to 
carry out activities of the Office of Cambodian Genocide 
Investigations. None of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available to carry out the provisions of section 101(b)(2)(E) of 
Public Law 103-236.
    Of the funds provided under this heading, $28,356,000 shall be 
available only for the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service for 
operation of existing base services and $15,000,000 shall be available 
only for the enhancement of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service 
(DTS), except that such latter amount shall not be available for 
obligation until the expiration of the 15-day period beginning on the 
date on which the Secretary of State and the Director of the Diplomatic 
Telecommunications Service Program Office submit the DTS planning 
report required by section 507.
    In addition, not to exceed $700,000 in registration fees collected 
pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended, may 
be used in accordance with section 45 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, 22 U.S.C. 2717; and in addition not to exceed 
$1,223,000 shall be derived from fees from other executive agencies for 
lease or use of facilities located at the International Center in 
accordance with section 4 of the International Center Act (Public Law 
90-553, as amended by section 120 of Public Law 101-246); and in 
addition not to exceed $15,000 which shall be derived from 
reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House facilities 
in accordance with section 46 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2718(a)).
    Notwithstanding section 502 of this Act, not to exceed 20 percent 
of the amounts made available in this Act in the appropriation 
accounts, ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' under the heading ``Administration of Foreign Affairs'' may 
be transferred between such appropriation accounts: Provided, That any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the general administration of the 
Department of State and the Foreign Service, provided for by law, 
including expenses authorized by section 9 of the Act of August 31, 
1964, as amended (31 U.S.C. 3721), and the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956, as amended, $385,000,000.


                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11 as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$23,850,000.


                        representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized by section 905 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended (22 U.S.C. 4085), $4,780,000.


               protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services in accordance 
with the provisions of section 214 of the State Department Basic 
Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4314) and 3 U.S.C. 208, $9,579,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall 
be available to carry out section 101(b)(4)(A) of Public Law 103-236: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, not 
to exceed $500,000 shall be available to carry out section 101(b)(4)(B) 
of Public Law 103-236.


             acquisition and maintenance of buildings abroad

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), and the 
Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized by title IV of 
the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 
U.S.C. 4851), $421,760,000 to remain available until expended as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c): Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of 
furniture and furnishings and generators for other departments and 
agencies. Of the funds made available in this paragraph not to exceed 
$117,864,000 shall be available for Maintenance of Buildings and 
Facility Rehabilitation.


            emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service 
pursuant to the requirement of 31 U.S.C. 3526(e) $6,500,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c), of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
Repatriation Loans Program Account, subject to the same terms and 
conditions.


                    repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $593,000, as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
2671: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct loan program, $183,000 which may be transferred to 
and merged with the Salaries and Expenses account under Administration 
of Foreign Affairs.


               payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, 
Public Law 96-8 (93 Stat. 14), $15,465,000.


      payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $129,321,000.

              International Organizations and Conferences


               contributions to international organizations

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $877,222,000, of 
which not to exceed $4,000,000 is available to pay arrearages, the 
payment of which shall be directed toward special activities that are 
mutually agreed upon by the United States and the respective 
international organization: Provided, That 20 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph for the assessed contribution of the 
United States to the United Nations shall be withheld from obligation 
and expenditure pursuant to section 401(a)(2) of Public Law 103-236 
until a certification is made under section 401(b) of said Act:  
Provided further, that certification under section 401(b) of Public Law 
103-236 may only be made if the Committees on Appropriations and 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations 
and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives are notified of the 
steps taken, and anticipated, to meet the requirements of section 
401(b) of Public Law 103-236 at least 15 days in advance of the 
proposed certification: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for a United States 
contribution to an international organization for the United States 
share of interest costs made known to the United States Government by 
such organization for loans incurred on or after October 1, 1984, 
through external borrowings.


         contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $533,304,000, of which 
not to exceed $288,000,000 is available to pay arrearages accumulated 
in fiscal year 1994 and not to exceed $23,092,000 is available to pay 
other outstanding arrearages: Provided, That funds shall be available 
for peacekeeping expenses only upon a certification by the Secretary of 
State to the appropriate committees of the Congress that American 
manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities to provide 
equipment, services and material for United Nations peacekeeping 
activities equal to those being given to foreign manufacturers and 
suppliers.


               international conferences and contingencies

    For necessary expenses authorized by section 5 of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for these purposes, contributions for the United 
States share of general expenses of international organizations and 
conferences and representation to such organizations and conferences as 
provided for by 22 U.S.C. 2656 and 2672 and personal services without 
regard to civil service and classification laws as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5102, $6,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c), of which not to exceed $200,000 may be 
expended for representation as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 4085.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:


  international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $12,858,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $6,644,000, to remain available until expended as authorized 
by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c).


               american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, as authorized by treaties between the United States and 
Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border Environment Cooperation 
Commission as authorized by Public Law 103-182; $5,800,000, of which 
not to exceed $9,000 shall be available for representation expenses 
incurred by the International Joint Commission.


                   international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $14,669,000: Provided, 
That the United States share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                     payment to the asia foundation

    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by section 501 of 
Public Law 101-246, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 2696(c).

                General Provisions--Department of State

    Sec. 501. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of 5 U.S.C.; for services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109; and hire of passenger transportation pursuant to 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 502. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the United States Information Agency in this 
Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 503. Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
Act or any other Act may be expended for compensation of the United 
States Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission, United 
States and Canada, only for actual hours worked by such Commissioner.
    Sec. 504. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the 
Department of State during fiscal year 1995, $5,566,000 are permanently 
canceled.
    (b) The Secretary of State shall allocate the amount of budgetary 
resources canceled among the Department's accounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses. Amounts available for 
procurement and procurement-related expenses in each such account shall 
be reduced by the amount allocated to such account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 505. Section 140 of Public Law 103-236 is amended--
        (1) by inserting after subsection (d)(3) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Fingerprint Checks.--
        ``(1) Effective not later than March 31, 1995, the Secretary of 
    State shall in the ten countries with the highest volume of 
    immigrant visa issuance for the most recent fiscal year for which 
    data are available require the fingerprinting of applicants over 
    sixteen years of age for immigrant visas. The Department of State 
    shall submit records of such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of 
    Investigation in order to ascertain whether such applicants 
    previously have been convicted of a felony under State or Federal 
    law in the United States, and shall pay all appropriate fees.
        ``(2) The Secretary shall prescribe and publish such 
    regulations as may be necessary to implement the requirements of 
    this subsection, and to avoid undue processing costs and delays for 
    eligible immigrants and the United States Government.''; and
        (2) in subsections (d)(4) and (d)(5), by changing the word 
    ``procedure'' to ``procedures'', by changing the words ``this 
    subsection'' each time they appear to ``subsections (d) and (e)'', 
    and by redesignating paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5), respectively, as 
    subsections (f) and (g).
    Sec. 506. (a) Section 212 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
as amended (U.S.C. 1182), is amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following new subsection (o):
    ``(o) An alien who has been physically present in the United States 
shall not be eligible to receive an immigrant visa within ninety days 
following departure therefrom unless--
        ``(1) the alien was maintaining a lawful nonimmigrant status at 
    the time of such departure, or
        ``(2) the alien is the spouse or unmarried child of an 
    individual who obtained temporary or permanent resident status 
    under section 210 or 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act or 
    section 202 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 at 
    any date, who--
            ``(A) as of May 5, 1988, was the unmarried child or spouse 
        of the individual who obtained temporary or permanent resident 
        status under section 210 or 245A of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act or section 202 of the Immigration Reform and 
        Control Act of 1986;
            ``(B) entered the United States before May 5, 1988, resided 
        in the United States on May 5, 1988, and is not a lawful 
        permanent resident; and
            ``(C) applied for benefits under section 301(a) of the 
        Immigration Act of 1990.''.
    (b) Section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended 
(8 U.S.C. 1255), is amended by adding at the end thereof the following 
new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (c) 
of this section, an alien physically present in the United States who--
        ``(A) entered the United States without inspection; or
        ``(B) is within one of the classes enumerated in subsection (c) 
    of this section.
may apply to the Attorney General for the adjustment of his or her 
status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. 
The Attorney General may accept such application only if the alien 
remits with such application a sum equalling five times the fee 
required for the processing of applications under this section as of 
the date of receipt of the application, but such sum shall not be 
required from a child under the age of seventeen, or an alien who is 
the spouse or unmarried child of an individual who obtained temporary 
or permanent resident status under section 210 or 245A of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or section 202 of the Immigration 
Reform and Control Act of 1986 at any date, who--
        ``(i) as of May 5, 1988, was the unmarried child or spouse of 
    the individual who obtained temporary or permanent resident status 
    under section 210 or 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act or 
    section 202 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986;
        ``(ii) entered the United States before May 5, 1988, resided in 
    the United States on May 5, 1988, and is not a lawful permanent 
    resident; and
        ``(iii) applied for benefits under section 301(a) of the 
    Immigration Act of 1990. The sum specified herein shall be in 
    addition to the fee normally required for the processing of an 
    application under this section.
    ``(2) Upon receipt of such an application and the sum hereby 
required, the Attorney General may adjust the status of the alien to 
that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if--
        ``(A) the alien is eligible to receive an immigrant visa and is 
    admissible to the United States for permanent residence; and
        ``(B) an immigrant visa is immediately available to the alien 
    at the time the application is filed.
    ``(3) Sums remitted to the Attorney General pursuant to paragraphs 
(1) and (2) of this subsection shall be disposed of by the Attorney 
General as provided in sections 286 (m), (n), and (o) of this title.''.
    (c) The provisions of these amendments to the Immigration and 
Nationality Act shall take effect on October 1, 1994 and shall cease to 
have effect on October 1, 1997.
    (d) The Immigration and Naturalization Service shall conduct full 
fingerprint identification checks through the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for all individuals over sixteen years of age adjusting 
immigration status in the United States pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 507. (a) Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Financial 
Management.--In fiscal year 1995 and each succeeding fiscal year--
        (1) the Secretary of State shall provide funds for the 
    operation of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service (DTS) in a 
    sufficient amount to sustain the current level of support services 
    being provided by the DTS, and no portion of such amount may be 
    reprogrammed or transferred for any other purpose;
        (2) all funds for the operation and enhancement of the DTS 
    shall be directly available for use by the Diplomatic 
    Telecommunications Service Program Office (DTS-PO); and
        (3) the DTS-PO financial management officer shall be provided 
    direct access to the Department of State financial management 
    system to independently monitor and control the obligation and 
    expenditure of all funds for the operation and enhancement of the 
    DTS.
    (b) DTS Policy Board.--Within 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Director of the 
DTS-PO shall restructure the DTS Policy Board to provide for 
representation on the Board, during fiscal year 1995 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, by--
        (1) the Director of the DTS-PO;
        (2) the senior information management official from each agency 
    currently serving on the Board;
        (3) a senior career information management official from each 
    of the Department of Commerce, the United States Information 
    Agency, and the Defense Intelligence Agency; and
        (4) a senior career information management official from each 
    of 2 other Federal agencies served by the DTS, each of whom shall 
    be appointed on a rotating basis by the Secretary of State and the 
    Director of the DTS-PO for a 2-year term.
    (c) DTS Consolidation Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of State and the Director of the 
    DTS-PO shall carry out a program under which total DTS 
    consolidation will be completed before October 1, 1995, at not less 
    than five embassies of medium to large size.
        (2) Pilot program requirements.--Under the program required in 
    paragraph (1)--
            (A) each participating embassy shall be provided with a 
        full range of integrated information services, including 
        message, data, and voice, without additional charge;
            (B) a combined transmission facility shall be established 
        and jointly operated, with open access to all unclassified 
        transmission equipment;
            (C) an unclassified packet switch communication system 
        shall be installed and shall serve all foreign affairs agencies 
        associated with the embassy;
            (D) separate classified transmission systems (including 
        MERCURY) shall be terminated; and
            (E) all foreign affairs agency systems requiring 
        international communications capability shall obtain such 
        capability solely through the DTS.
        (3) Pilot program report.--Not later than January 15, 1996, the 
    Secretary of State and the Director of the DTS-PO shall submit to 
    the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate a report 
    describing the actions taken under the program required by this 
    subsection. The report shall include a cost-benefit analysis for 
    each embassy participating in the program.
    (d) DTS Planning Report.--Not later than January 15, 1995, the 
Secretary of State and the Director of the DTS-PO shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations a DTS planning report. The report shall 
include--
        (1) a detailed plan for carrying out the pilot program required 
    by subsection (c), including an estimate of the funds required for 
    such purpose; and
        (2) a comprehensive DTS strategy plan that contains detailed 
    plans and schedules for--
            (A) an overall DTS network configuration and security 
        strategy;
            (B) transition of the existing dedicated circuits and 
        classified transmission systems to the unclassified packet 
        switch communications system;
            (C) provision of a basic level of voice service for all DTS 
        customers;
            (D) funding of new initiatives and of replacement of 
        current systems;
            (E) combining existing DTS network control centers, relay 
        facilities, and overseas operations; and
            (F) reducing the extensive reliance of DTS-PO on the full-
        time services of contractors.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  Arms Control and Disarmament Agency


                 arms control and disarmament activities

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided, for arms control and 
disarmament activities, $54,500,000, of which not less than $9,500,000 
is available until expended only for activities related to the 
implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention, and of which not to 
exceed $100,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses as authorized by the Act of September 26, 1961, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2551 et seq.): Provided, That of the budgetary resources 
available in fiscal year 1995 in this account, $122,000 are permanently 
canceled: Provided further, That amounts available for procurement and 
procurement-related expenses in this account are reduced by such 
amount: Provided further, That as used herein, ``procurement'' includes 
all stages of the process of acquiring property or services, beginning 
with the process of determining a need for a product or services and 
ending with contract completion and closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 
403(2).

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $206,000, as authorized by Public Law 99-83, section 
1303.

                     International Trade Commission


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $42,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               Japan-United States Friendship Commission


                japan-united states friendship trust fund

    For expenses of the Japan-United States Friendship Commission as 
authorized by Public Law 94-118, as amended, from the interest earned 
on the Japan-United States Friendship Trust Fund, $1,247,000; and an 
amount of Japanese currency not to exceed the equivalent of $1,420,000 
based on exchange rates at the time of payment of such amounts as 
authorized by Public Law 94-118.

                    United States Information Agency


                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
United States Information Agency, as authorized by the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2451 et seq.), the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, as amended (22 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.) and Reorganization 
Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), to carry out international 
communication, educational and cultural activities; and to carry out 
related activities authorized by law, including employment, without 
regard to civil service and classification laws, of persons on a 
temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000 of this appropriation), as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1471, and entertainment, including official 
receptions, within the United States, not to exceed $25,000 as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1474(3); $476,362,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $1,400,000 may be used for representation abroad as authorized 
by 22 U.S.C. 1452 and 4085: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 of the amounts allocated by the United States Information 
Agency to carry out section 102(a)(3) of the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2452(a)(3)), shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 
shall remain available until expended as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 
1477b(a), for expenses and equipment necessary for maintenance and 
operation of data processing and administrative services as authorized 
by 31 U.S.C. 1535-1536: Provided further, That not to exceed $7,615,000 
to remain available until expended, may be credited to this 
appropriation from fees or other payments received from or in 
connection with English teaching, library, motion pictures, and 
publication programs as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $2,000,000 to remain available until 
expended may be used to carry out projects involving security 
construction and related improvements for agency facilities not 
physically located together with Department of State facilities abroad.


                       office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), and in accordance with the provisions of 31 
U.S.C. 1105(a)(25), $4,300,000.


                educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of Fulbright, International Visitor, Humphrey 
Fellowship, Citizen Exchange, Congress-Bundestag Exchange, and other 
educational and cultural exchange programs, as authorized by the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 
2451 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977 (91 Stat. 1636), 
$238,279,000, to remain available until expended as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 2455: Provided, That of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, $500,000 is available for the Mike Mansfield Fellowship 
Program.


                  eisenhower exchange Fellowship Program

                                trust fund

    For payment to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund as authorized by the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 
(20 U.S.C. 5204-05), $2,500,000, to remain available until expended.
    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated to be derived from interest and earnings from the 
Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust Fund as authorized by 
sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 
U.S.C. 5204-05), $300,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay any 
salary or other compensation, or to enter into any contract providing 
for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5376; or for purposes which are not in accordance with OMB Circulars A-
110 (Uniform Administrative Requirements) and A-122 (Cost Principles 
for Non-profit Organizations), including the restrictions on 
compensation for personal services.


                     israeli arab scholarship program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 1995, to remain available until expended.

                 international broadcasting operations

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency, as authorized by the United States Information and Educational 
Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1977, to carry out international communication activities; 
$468,796,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 may be used for official 
receptions within the United States as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1474(3) 
and not to exceed $35,000 may be used for representation abroad as 
authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1452 and 4085; and in addition, not to exceed 
$250,000 from fees as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
Informational and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended, to 
remain available until expended for carrying out authorized purposes: 
Provided, That $229,735,000 shall be transferred to the Board for 
International Broadcasting and shall remain available until expended 
for expenses authorized by the Board for International Broadcasting Act 
of 1973, as amended, of which not to exceed $45,000 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, 
That on the date upon which the Board for International Broadcasting 
Act of 1973 (22 U.S.C. 2871, et seq.) is repealed, as provided for by 
section 310(e) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, fiscal years 
1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236; 108 Stat. 442), funds made available 
for expenses of the Board for International Broadcasting shall be made 
available until expended only for expenses necessary to enable the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors to carry out the authorities provided 
in section 305(a) of Public Law 103-236, including the appointment of 
staff personnel as authorized by section 305(a)(11) of Public Law 103-
236: Provided further, That such amounts appropriated to the Board for 
International Broadcasting in fiscal year 1994 as are certified by the 
Office of Management and Budget to the Congress as gains due to the 
fluctuation of foreign currency, may be used in fiscal year 1995 and 
thereafter either to offset foreign currency losses or to offset 
unfunded RFE/RL costs associated with the implementation of Public Law 
103-236: Provided further, That obligated but unexpended balances 
appropriated in fiscal year 1990 to fund planned transmitter 
modernization expenses may be expended in fiscal year 1995 for unfunded 
RFE/RL costs associated with the implementation of Public Law 103-236: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act used by the 
Board for International Broadcasting or the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors to relocate offices or operations of RFE/RL, Incorporated, 
from Munich, Germany to Prague, Czech Republic, shall be made available 
only from funds provided for the Board for International Broadcasting 
in this paragraph: Provided further, That none of the funds provided by 
this Act for the United States Information Agency, except for amounts 
made available for transfer to the Board for International 
Broadcasting, shall be available for any excess cost to implement the 
plan required by section 310 of Public Law 103-236: Provided further, 
That no funds appropriated under this heading may be expended for the 
payment of retroactive operating costs, including rent on facilities, 
in Prague, or for the payment of operating costs prior to the date of 
signing a lease by RFE/RL, Incorporated: Provided further, That not 
less than the amount appropriated by this Act for the Office of 
Inspector General, Board for International Broadcasting shall be 
available for semiannual reviews of RFE/RL, Incorporated and that on-
site review is maintained at the current level throughout the duration 
of the relocation transition.


                            radio construction

    For an additional amount for the purchase, rent, construction, and 
improvement of facilities for radio transmission and reception and 
purchase and installation of necessary equipment for radio and 
television transmission and reception as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 1471, 
$85,314,000, to remain available until expended as authorized by 22 
U.S.C. 1477b(a).


                             radio free asia

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Radio Free Asia program as 
authorized by section 309 of the International Broadcasting Act of 1994 
(title III of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1994, Public 
Law 103-236), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          broadcasting to cuba

    For expenses necessary to enable the United States Information 
Agency to carry out the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 1465 et seq.) (providing for the Radio Marti Program or Cuba 
Service of the Voice of America), the Television Broadcasting to Cuba 
Act (22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.), and the International Broadcasting Act 
of 1994 (title III of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 1994, 
Public Law 103-236), including the purchase, rent, construction, and 
improvement of facilities for radio and television transmission and 
reception, and purchase and installation of necessary equipment for 
radio and television transmission and reception, $24,809,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                            east-west center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West Act of 1960 (22 U.S.C. 
2054-2057), by grant to the Center for Cultural and Technical 
Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, $24,500,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be used to 
pay any salary, or to enter into any contract providing for the payment 
thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                           north/south center

    To enable the Director of the United States Information Agency to 
provide for carrying out the provisions of the North/South Center Act 
of 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2075), by grant to an educational institution in 
Florida known as the North/South Center, $4,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                     national endowment for democracy

    For grants made by the United States Information Agency to the 
National Endowment for Democracy as authorized by the National 
Endowment for Democracy Act, $34,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.


        administrative provision--united states information agency

    (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the United States 
Information Agency during fiscal year 1995, $1,440,000 are permanently 
canceled.
    (b) The Director of the United States Information Agency shall 
allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled among the Agency's 
accounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses. 
Amounts available for procurement and procurement-related expenses in 
each such account shall be reduced by the amount allocated to such 
account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995''.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive Order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, 
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
any project or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; 
(4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any 
functions or activities presently performed by Federal employees; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the collection 
of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 per 
centum, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, 
projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 per centum funding for any 
existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 
per centum as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress, 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are 
notified fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 606. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), 
overhaul, conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside of 
the United States.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used for 
the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), conversion, or 
modernization of aircraft for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in facilities located outside the United States and 
Canada.
    Sec. 607. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on 
religion, when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to 
which such funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ 
in any respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission 
on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 609. No funds appropriated herein, or by any other Act, shall 
be used to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the United States to deny or refuse entry into 
the United States of any goods on the United States Munitions List 
manufactured or produced in the People's Republic of China, for which 
authority had been granted to import into the United States, on or 
before May 26, 1994, and which were, on or before May 26, 1994, in a 
bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone, in port, or, as determined by 
the United States on a case-by-case basis, in transit.

SEC. 610. RELIGIOUS LIBERTY.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) the liberties protected by our Constitution include 
    religious liberty protected by the first amendment;
        (2) citizens of the United States profess the beliefs of almost 
    every conceivable religion;
        (3) Congress has historically protected religious expression 
    even from governmental action not intended to be hostile to 
    religion;
        (4) the Supreme Court has written that ``the free exercise of 
    religion means, first and foremost, the right to believe and 
    profess whatever religious doctrine one desires'';
        (5) the Supreme Court has firmly settled that under our 
    Constitution the public expression of ideas may not be prohibited 
    merely because the content of the ideas is offensive to some;
        (6) Congress enacted the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 
    1993 to restate and make clear again our intent and position that 
    religious liberty is and should forever be granted protection from 
    unwarranted and unjustified government intrusions and burdens;
        (7) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has written 
    proposed guidelines to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
    published in the Federal Register on October 1, 1993, that expand 
    the definition of religious harassment beyond established legal 
    standards set forth by the Supreme Court, and that may result in 
    the infringement of religious liberty;
        (8) such guidelines do not appropriately resolve issues related 
    to religious liberty and religious expression in the workplace;
        (9) properly drawn guidelines for the determination of 
    religious harassment should provide appropriate guidance to 
    employers and employees and assist in the continued preservation of 
    religious liberty as guaranteed by the first amendment;
        (10) the Commission states in its proposed guidelines that it 
    retains wholly separate guidelines for the determination of sexual 
    harassment because the Commission believes that sexual harassment 
    raises issues about human interaction that are to some extent 
    unique; and
        (11) the subject of religious harassment also raises issues 
    about human interaction that are to some extent unique in 
    comparison to other harassment.
    (b) Category of Religious Harassment in Proposed Guidelines.--For 
purposes of issuing final regulations under title VII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 in connection with the proposed guidelines published 
by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on October 1, 1993 (58 
Fed. Reg. 51266), the Chairperson of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission shall ensure that--
        (1) the category of religion shall be withdrawn from the 
    proposed guidelines at this time;
        (2) any new guidelines for the determination of religious 
    harassment shall be drafted so as to make explicitly clear that 
    symbols or expressions of religious belief consistent with the 
    first amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 
    are not to be restricted and do not constitute proof of harassment;
        (3) the Commission shall hold public hearings on such new 
    proposed guidelines; and
        (4) the Commission shall receive additional public comment 
    before issuing similar new regulations.
    Titles I through VI of this Act may be cited as the ``Departments 
of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1995''.

        TITLE VII--FISCAL YEAR 1994 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                               CHAPTER I

                 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development Assistance 
Programs'' pursuant to the Public Works and Economic Development 
Assistance Act of 1965 as amended, to be used for grants to assist 
States and local communities in recovering from the flooding and damage 
caused by Tropical Storm Alberto and other disasters, $50,000,000 to 
remain available until expended; and in addition $5,000,000 to remain 
available until expended, which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriations for ``Salaries and expenses'': Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request, for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement, as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted to Congress.

                     Small Business Administration

                     Disaster Loans Program Account

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Loans Program Account'' for 
the cost of direct loans for the Northridge earthquake, the flooding 
and other damage caused by Tropical Storm Alberto in Georgia, Alabama, 
and Florida, and other disasters and associated administrative 
expenses, $470,000,000, which shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to Congress, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of this amount, not to exceed $135,000,000 is for administrative 
expenses of such loans, including not to exceed $2,500,000 for the 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan program, and said sums 
may be transferred to and merged with appropriations for ``Salaries and 
expenses'' and ``Office of Inspector General'': Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Highway Administration


                           federal-aid highways

    Under the head, ``Federal-Aid Highways, Emergency Relief Program 
(Highway Trust Fund)'' in title I of Public Law 103-211, delete 
beginning after ``$950,000,000;'' through ``by the President to the 
Congress, all''.

                               CHAPTER II

                      SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

              International Organizations and Conferences


         contributions for international peacekeeping operations

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Operations'', $670,000,000 to be available for obligation 
and expenditure through September 30, 1994: Provided, That 50 percent 
of this amount shall be withheld from obligation and expenditure 
pursuant to section 401(a)(3) of Public Law 103-236 until a 
certification is made pursuant to section 401(b) of said Act.

                               TITLE VIII

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs


                state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
to carry out the provisions of subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Acts of 1968, as amended, 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 511 of said Act, 
$450,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Edward Byrne 
Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Program.


                      state criminal records upgrade

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by section 106(b) of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act of 1993, Public Law 103-159 (107 Stat. 1536), $100,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which up to $6,000,000 may be used 
for implementation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's National 
Instant Background Check System: Provided, That not to exceed one 
percentum of the amount appropriated herein shall be available for 
salaries and expenses for management and administration to be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Justice 
Assistance.


                        state correctional grants

    For grants to States to develop, construct, or expand military 
style boot camp prison programs which include coordinated, intensive 
aftercare services for inmates following release, $24,500,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed one 
percentum of the amount appropriated herein shall be available for 
salaries and expenses for management and administration to be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Justice 
Assistance.


                               drug courts

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
to implement drug court programs which combine intensive probationary 
supervision and mandatory drug testing and treatment as an alternative 
punishment for young, non-violent drug offenders, $29,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed one 
percentum of the amount appropriated herein shall be available for 
salaries and expenses for management and administration to be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Justice 
Assistance.


              grants to combat violent crimes against women

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
to develop and strengthen effective law enforcement and prosecution 
strategies to combat violent crimes against women, and to develop and 
strengthen victim services in cases involving crimes against women, 
$26,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That not to 
exceed one percentum of the amount appropriated herein shall be 
available for salaries and expenses for management and administration 
to be transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Justice 
Assistance.


                       ounce of prevention council

    For grants by the Ounce of Prevention Council, $1,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                 state criminal alien assistance program

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by section 501 of the 
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1365), 
$130,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to (a) prescribe 
requirements for program participation eligibility for States, (b) 
require verification by States of the eligible incarcerated population 
data with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, (c) prescribe a 
formula for distributing assistance to eligible States, and (d) award 
assistance to eligible States: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated herein, one-third shall be distributed on a preliminary 
basis no later than 120 days after the beginning of the fiscal year, 
according to regulations promulgated by the Attorney General: Provided 
further, That the remaining two-thirds of the amount appropriated 
herein shall be distributed after final application for program 
participation to be submitted by the States by September 30, 1995: 
Provided further, That not to exceed one percentum of the amount 
appropriated herein shall be available for salaries and expenses for 
management and administration to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance.

                         General Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this Act, for 
necessary expenses of the Executive Office for Immigration Review 
associated with the President's Immigration Initiative, $17,400,000, of 
which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall remain available until expended.


                            community policing

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the Cops on the Beat Program, $1,300,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $200,000,000 shall be available to the Bureau 
of Justice Assistance to make awards to jurisdictions pursuant to the 
police hiring grant program provided in the supplemental appropriation 
for Justice Assistance contained in the Supplemental Appropriations Act 
of 1993 (Public Law 103-50, 107 Stat. 246): Provided, That not to 
exceed $11,000,000 of the amount appropriated herein shall be available 
for salaries and expenses for program administration, of which $900,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the management and 
administration program of the Justice Assistance appropriation.

                            Legal Activities


             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this Act for 
``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal Activities'', $4,600,000 for 
necessary expenses of the Civil Division associated with the 
President's Immigration Initiative, of which not to exceed $1,500,000 
shall remain available until expended.


              salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this Act for 
``Salaries and Expenses, United States Attorneys'', $6,800,000 for 
necessary expenses associated with the President's Immigration 
Initiative, of which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service


                          salaries and expenses

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available under this heading 
in this Act for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $100,600,000 to implement 
the President's Immigration Initiative, of which not to exceed 
$32,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                  Border Control System Modernization

    For the development, testing, evaluation and procurement of new 
automation and communications systems and other new technologies 
necessary for the administration and enforcement of the laws relating 
to immigration, naturalization and alien registration, not otherwise 
provided for, $154,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                           General Provision

    Upon enactment of a bill establishing the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund and reducing discretionary spending limits, amounts made 
available under each heading under this title shall be rescinded, and 
an amount equal to the amount under each such heading shall be made 
available from such Trust Fund under the same terms and conditions 
contained in this title. Obligations and outlays incurred prior to the 
establishment of such Trust Fund shall, after enactment, be recorded 
against amounts made available from the Trust Fund under the 
appropriate heading as if such obligations and outlays had originally 
been made from such Trust Fund.
    This title may be cited as the ``Violent Crime Control 
Appropriations Act, 1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.