[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2667 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2667
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making emergency supplemental appropriations for relief from the 
major, widespread flooding in the Midwest for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1993, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to provide emergency supplemental appropriations for 
relief from the major, widespread flooding in the Midwest for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1993, and for other purposes, namely:

                                CHAPTER I

      DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                            Extension Service

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods and other natural disasters of 1993, $3,500,000, to 
remain available through June 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   Economic Development Administration


                 economic development assistance programs

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods of 1993 and other disasters, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995, for disaster assistance grants 
pursuant to the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as 
amended, of which $100,000,000 shall only be available to the extent an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress.

                      Small Business Administration


                      disaster loans program account

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster loans program account'' for 
the cost of direct loans for the Midwest floods and other disasters, 
$90,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995, of which 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriations for ``Salaries and Expenses'', and of 
which $20,000,000 shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
$500,000 limitation on the amounts outstanding and committed to a 
borrower provided in paragraph 7(c)(6) of the Small Business Act shall 
be increased to $1,500,000 for disasters commencing on or after April 1, 
1993.

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


                     training and employment services

    For an additional amount for disaster relief for the Midwest floods 
for activities authorized by part B of title III of the Job Training 
Partnership Act, $54,600,000, to be available for obligation for the 
period July 1, 1993, through June 30, 1994, of which $11,100,000 shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to Congress.

              Commission on National and Community Service


                          programs and activities

    For an additional amount for ``Programs and activities'' of the 
Commission on National and Community Service, $4,000,000, for use in 
carrying out Federal disaster relief programs, activities, and 
initiatives under subtitles C, E, F, and G of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610), as the Board determines 
necessary to carry out programs related to the floods in the Midwest, to 
remain available until September 30, 1994, of which $2,000,000 shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for a specific 
dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to Congress: Provided, That all of the above amounts in 
this and the preceding three paragraphs are designated by Congress as 
emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Commodity Credit Corporation


                     Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Commodity Credit Corporation 
Fund'' to cover 1993 crop losses resulting from damaging weather or 
related floods associated with the conditions (as defined in section 
2251 of Public Law 101-624), in 1993, $1,050,000,000, and in addition 
$300,000,000, which shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to Congress, the total 
to remain available until June 30, 1994: Provided, That from funds 
previously made available in Public Law 102-368 by Presidential 
declaration, $100,000,000 to remain available until June 30, 1994, shall 
be for 1993 crop losses only: Provided further, That if prior to April 
1, 1994, the President determines that extraordinary circumstances exist 
that warrant further assistance, the Secretary of Agriculture shall use 
such funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation as are necessary to make 
payments in an amount equal to 100 percent of each eligible claim as 
determined under title XXII of Public Law 101-624: Provided further, 
That all additional amounts made available herein are subject to the 
terms and conditions in Public Law 101-624: Provided further, That 
Congress hereby designates the entire amount provided herein as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any provision of Public Law 103-
50, funds provided by such Act shall not be expended for 1993 crop 
losses resulting from 1993 natural disasters, and claims for assistance 
from funds provided by that Act by producers with 1990, 1991, and 1992 
crop losses shall be paid only to the extent such claims are filed by 
September 17, 1993.

                      Sense of the Senate on Bosnia

    (a) The Senate finds that:
        (1) Numerous atrocities have been reported on the conflict in 
    the former Yugoslavia;
        (2) Such atrocities against innocent civilians and prisoners 
    would violate universally accepted law as embodied in the Geneva 
    Conventions of August 12, 1949 for the Protection of War Victims; 
    the Hague Convention (IV) Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on 
    Land and the Regulations annexed thereto of October 18, 1907; the 
    Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 
    of December 9, 1948; and the Charter of the International Military 
    Tribunal of August 8, 1945;
        (3) In October 1992 the United Nations Security Council adopted 
    Resolution 780 establishing a Commission of Experts to gather and 
    evaluate evidence of such war crimes;
        (4) The Commission of Experts submitted an interim report dated 
    January 26, 1993 which concluded that grave breaches and other 
    violations of international humanitarian law had been committed in 
    the territory of the former Yugoslavia, including willful killing, 
    ``ethnic cleansing'', mass killings, torture, rape, pillage, and 
    destruction of civilian property, destruction of cultural and 
    religious property and arbitrary arrests;
        (5) The Commission of Experts has been hindered in carrying out 
    fully its legal charge because of insufficient resources;
        (6) On February 22, 1993, the United Nations Security Council 
    adopted Resolution 808 establishing an international tribunal to try 
    individuals accused of the commission of war crimes in the former 
    Yugoslavia;
        (7) On May 3, 1993, the Secretary General of the United Nations 
    issued his report which established the procedures for an 
    international war crimes tribunal;
        (8) The United Nations is presently in the process of selecting 
    judges and prosecutors for the international war crimes tribunal;
        (9) According to reports, the atrocities in the former 
    Yugoslavia continue unabated; and
        (10) There is a dire need to establish promptly the tribunal and 
    commence prosecution of alleged war criminals: Now, therefore.
    (b) The Senate hereby commends the United Nations for its 
recognition of the importance and necessity of the rule of law as 
evidenced by its establishment of an international tribunal for the 
prosecution of war crimes in the former Yugoslavia.
    (c) It is the sense of the Senate that the United Nations should--
        (1) expedite the selection of judges and prosecutors for the 
    tribunal in order to begin prosecutions of alleged war criminals; 
    and
        (2) provide all assistance necessary to continue gathering 
    evidence for such prosecutions.

                        Soil Conservation Service


                 watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount to repair damages to the waterways and 
watersheds resulting from the Midwest floods and other natural disasters 
of 1993, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994 to 
carry out the Emergency Watershed Protection Program of the Soil 
Conservation Service, of which $25,000,000, shall be available only to 
the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the President to Congress: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that the cost of land 
and levee restoration exceeds the fair market value of an affected 
cropland, the Secretary may use sufficient amounts from funds provided 
under this head to accept bids from willing sellers to enroll such 
cropland inundated by the Midwest floods of 1993 in any of the affected 
States in the Wetlands Reserve Program as authorized by subchapter C of 
chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(16 U.S.C. 3837).

           Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses of the 
Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, $12,000,000, to 
remain available until June 30, 1994, to meet the needs arising from the 
Midwest floods and other natural disasters: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.


                      emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods and other natural disasters of 1993, $30,000,000, to 
remain available until June 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire amount 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                       Farmers Home Administration


               rural housing insurance fund program account

    For an additional amount to assist in the recovery from the Midwest 
floods and other natural disasters of 1993 for the cost of direct 
section 504 housing repair loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$5,985,000, to remain available through June 30, 1994: Provided, That 
these funds are available to subsidize additional gross obligations for 
the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $15,000,000: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.


            Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account

    For an additional amount to assist in the recovery from the Midwest 
floods and other natural disasters of 1993 for the cost of direct loans, 
including the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, $21,788,000, to remain available until 
June 30, 1994, of which $20,504,000 shall be for emergency insured loans 
and $1,284,000 shall be for water development, use, and conservation 
loans: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize additional 
gross obligation for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$87,000,000, of which $80,000,000 shall be for emergency insured loans: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.


             Rural Development Insurance Fund Program Account

    For an additional amount for the cost of guaranteed industrial 
development loans, including the cost of modifying loans, as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to assist in the 
recovery from the Midwest floods and other natural disasters of 1993, 
$5,410,000, to remain available until June 30, 1994, of which $2,705,000 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the 
President to Congress: Provided, That these funds are available to 
subsidize additional gross obligations for the principal amount of 
guaranteed loans not to exceed $100,000,000: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.


                   Very Low-Income Housing Repair Grants

    For an additional amount to make housing repairs needed as a result 
of the Midwest floods and other natural disasters of 1993, $15,000,000, 
to remain available until June 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.


                Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants

    For an additional amount for emergency community water assistance 
grants to assist in the recovery from the Midwest floods and other 
natural disasters of 1993, $50,000,000, to remain available until June 
30, 1994, of which $30,000,000 shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the President to Congress: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               CHAPTER II

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration


                   operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods of 1993 and other disasters, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                       Legal Services Corporation


                 payment to the legal services corporation

    For an additional amount for ``Payment to the Legal Services 
Corporation'' for emergency assistance to Legal Services Corporation 
basic field programs in areas affected by the Midwest floods of 1993 and 
other disasters, $300,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
contingent upon the President designating the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                               CHAPTER III

                      ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                  Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', $120,000,000, for the Midwest floods and other disasters, 
and in addition $60,000,000, which shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress, to remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   Operation and Maintenance, General

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, General'', 
$55,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                               CHAPTER IV

DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Office of the Secretary


             public health and social services emergency fund

    For an additional amount for Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund for the Midwest floods of 1993, $75,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1994, which shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION


                                impact aid

  For carrying out disaster assistance activities related to the Midwest 
floods of 1993, authorized under section 7(a) of Public Law 81-874, 
$70,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994, which shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      STUDENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

  For an additional amount for ``Student Financial Assistance'' for 
payment of awards for award year 1993-1994 made under title IV, part A, 
subpart 1 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $30,000,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding sections 442(e) and 462(j) of such Act, the 
Secretary of Education may reallocate, for use in award year 1993-1994 
only, any excess funds returned to the Secretary of Education under the 
Federal Work-Study or Federal Perkins Loan programs from award year 
1992-1993 to assist individuals who suffered financial harm as a result 
of the Midwest floods of 1993: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER V

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        UNITED STATES COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods of 1993, $10,000,000, to remain available until March 31, 
1994: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                           (highway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from the 
Midwest floods of 1993 and other disasters, as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 
125, $100,000,000, and in addition $75,000,000, which shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress, all to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                      Local Rail Freight Assistance

    For additional expenses pursuant to section 5 of the Department of 
Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. app. 1654), to repair and rebuild rail 
lines of other than class I railroads as defined by the Interstate 
Commerce Commission or railroads owned or controlled by a class I 
railroad, having carried 5 million gross ton miles or less per mile 
during the prior year, and damaged as a result of the Midwest floods of 
1993, $11,000,000, and in addition, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $10,000,000 to repair and rebuild rail lines of any railroad 
subject to the discretion of the Secretary of Transportation on a case-
by-case basis: Provided, That for the purposes of administering this 
emergency relief, the Secretary of Transportation shall have authority 
to make funds available notwithstanding subsections (a), (b) (1) and 
(3), (c), (e)-(h) and (o) of 49 U.S.C. app. 1654 as the Secretary deems 
appropriate and shall consider the extent to which the State has 
available unexpended local rail freight assistance funds or available 
repaid loan funds: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
app. 1654(f), the Secretary may prescribe the form and time for 
applications for assistance made available herein: Provided further, 
That these funds shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request, for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That all funds made available under this head are to 
remain available until September 30, 1994.

                               CHAPTER VI

 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


                   home investment partnerships program

    For an additional amount for the HOME investment partnerships 
program, as authorized under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, as amended (Public Law 101-625), for use only in 
areas affected by the Midwest floods, high winds, hail and other related 
weather damages of 1993, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1994: Provided, That in administering these funds, the 
Secretary may waive any provision of any statute or regulation that the 
Secretary administers in connection with the obligation by the Secretary 
or any use by the recipient of these funds, except for requirements 
relating to fair housing and nondiscrimination, the environment, and 
labor standards, upon finding that such waiver is required to facilitate 
the obligation and use of such funds, and would not be inconsistent with 
the overall purpose of the statute or regulation: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', as 
authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, only in areas affected by the Midwest floods, high winds, hail and 
other related weather damages of 1993 and other disasters, $200,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 1994, of which $25,000,000 is 
for those community development planning activities related to recovery 
efforts and for immediate recovery needs not reimbursable by the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): Provided, That in administering 
these funds, the Secretary may waive any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or any use by the recipient of these funds, 
except for requirements relating to fair housing and nondiscrimination, 
the environment, and labor standards, upon a finding that such waiver is 
required to facilitate the obligation and use of such funds, and would 
not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of the statute or 
regulation: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That all of the funds provided under this 
head in this Act shall be used only to repair, replace, or restore 
facilities damaged or to continue services interrupted by Midwest 
floods, high winds, hail and other related weather damages of 1993 and 
other disasters that are essential to public health or safety as defined 
by the Secretary.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Environmental Protection Agency


                    Abatement, Control, and Compliance

    For an additional amount for ``Abatement, Control, and Compliance'' 
for the Midwest floods of 1993, $24,250,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1994: Provided, That the Administrator may make these 
funds available notwithstanding any applicable formula allocating funds 
to States for programs authorized: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.


                      Program and Research Operations

    For an additional amount for ``Program and Research Operations'', 
for the Midwest floods of 1993, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.


                Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Leaking Underground Storage Tank 
Trust Fund'' to make cooperative agreements under section 9003(h)(7) of 
the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, for the Midwest floods of 
1993, $8,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.


                            Oil Spill Response

    For an additional amount for ``Oil Spill Response'', for the Midwest 
floods of 1993, $700,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency


                              disaster relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief'', $1,735,000,000, 
and in addition, $265,000,000, which shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress, to remain available until September 30, 1997, for the Midwest 
floods and other disasters: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, as amended, and title I, chapter II, of Public Law 102-229.

                               CHAPTER VII

             DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                     construction and anadromous fish

    For an additional amount for ``Construction and Anadromous Fish'', 
$30,000,000, for the Midwest floods, to remain available until September 
30, 1995: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          National Park Service


                        HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND

    For an additional amount for ``Historic Preservation Fund'', 
$5,000,000, for the Midwest floods of 1993, to remain available until 
September 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.


                               construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $900,000, for the 
Midwest floods, to remain available until September 30, 1994: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     United States Geological Survey


                   surveys, investigations and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, investigations and 
research'', $1,439,000, for the Midwest floods, to remain available 
until June 30, 1994: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       Operation of Indian Programs

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$3,878,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995 for the Midwest 
floods: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                              CHAPTER VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 801. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 802. In any case in which the Secretary of Agriculture finds 
that the farming, ranching, or aquaculture operations of producers on a 
farm have been substantially affected by a natural disaster in the 
United States or by a major disaster or emergency designated by the 
President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) during the 1993 crop year, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall not require any repayment under 
subparagraph (G) or (H) of section 114(a)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 
1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445j(a)(2)) for the 1993 crop of a commodity prior to 
January 1, 1994.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
for Relief From the Major, Widespread Flooding in the Midwest Act of 
1993''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







        Vice President of the United States and President of the Senate.