[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 920 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.920
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
   To extend the emergency unemployment compensation program, and for 
                                  other

                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Unemployment Compensation 
Amendments of 1993''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM.

    (a) General Rule.--Sections 102(f)(1) and 106(a)(2) of the Emergency 
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, as amended) 
are each amended by striking ``March 6, 1993'' and inserting ``October 
2, 1993''.
    (b) Modification to Final Phase-Out.--Paragraph (2) of section 
102(f) of such Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``March 6, 1993'' and inserting ``October 2, 
    1993'', and
        (2) by striking ``June 19, 1993'' and inserting ``January 15, 
    1994''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (1) of section 101(e) of such 
Act is amended by striking ``March 6, 1993'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``October 2, 1993''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to weeks beginning after March 6, 1993.

SEC. 3. TREATMENT OF RAILROAD WORKERS.

    (a) Extension of Program.--
        (1) In general.--Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 501(b) of the 
    Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, 
    as amended) are each amended by striking ``March 6, 1993'' and 
    inserting ``October 2, 1993''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 501(a) of such Act is amended 
    by striking ``March 1993'' and inserting ``October 1993''.
    (b) Termination of Benefits.--Section 501(e) of such Act is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``March 6, 1993'' and inserting ``October 2, 
    1993'', and
        (2) by striking ``June 19, 1993'' and inserting ``January 15, 
    1994''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to weeks beginning after March 6, 1993.

SEC. 4. PROFILING OF NEW CLAIMANTS.

    (a) General Rule.--The Secretary of Labor shall establish a program 
for encouraging the adoption and implementation by all States of a 
system of profiling all new claimants for regular unemployment 
compensation (including new claimants under each State unemployment 
compensation law which is approved under the Federal Unemployment Tax 
Act (26 U.S.C. 3301-3311) and new claimants under Federal unemployment 
benefit and allowance programs administered by the State under 
agreements with the Secretary of Labor), to determine which claimants 
may be likely to exhaust regular unemployment compensation and may need 
reemployment assistance services to make a successful transition to new 
employment.
    (b) Technical Assistance to States.--The Secretary of Labor shall 
provide technical assistance and advice to the States in the development 
of model profiling systems and the procedures for such systems. Such 
technical assistance and advice shall be provided by the utilization of 
such resources as the Secretary deems appropriate, and the procedures 
for such profiling systems shall include the effective utilization of 
automated data processing.
    (c) Funding of Activities.--For purposes of encouraging the 
development and establishment of model profiling systems in the States, 
the Secretary of Labor shall provide to each State, from funds available 
for this purpose, such funds as may be determined by the Secretary to be 
necessary.
    (d) Report to Congress.--Within 30 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall report to the 
Congress on the operation and effectiveness of the profiling systems 
adopted by the States, and the Secretary's recommendation for 
continuation of the systems and any appropriate legislation.
    (e) State.--For purposes of this section, the term ``State'' has the 
meaning given such term by section 3306(j)(1) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986.
    (f) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 5. FINANCING PROVISIONS.

    (a)  Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated for 
nonrepayable advances to the account for ``Advances to the Unemployment 
Trust Fund and Other Funds'' in Department of Labor Appropriations Acts 
(for transfer to the ``extended unemployment compensation account'' 
established by section 905 of the Social Security Act) such sums as may 
be necessary to make payments to the States to carry out the purposes of 
the amendments made by section 2 of this Act.
    (b) Use of Advance Account Funds.--The funds appropriated to the 
account for ``Advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and Other Funds'' 
in the Department of Labor Appropriation Act for Fiscal Year 1993 
(Public Law 102-394) are authorized to be used to make payments to the 
States to carry out the purposes of the amendments made by section 2 of 
this Act.

SEC. 6. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.

    Pursuant to sections 251(b)(2)(D)(i) and 252(e) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, the Congress hereby 
designates all direct spending amounts provided by this Act (for all 
fiscal years) and all appropriations authorized by this Act (for all 
fiscal years) as emergency requirements within the meaning of part C of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

SEC. 7. ELIMINATION OF COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS 
              IN 1994.

    (a) Cost of Living Adjustment.--Notwithstanding section 601(a)(2) of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31(2)), the cost of 
living adjustment (relating to pay for Members of Congress) which would 
become effective under such provision of law during calendar year 1994 
shall not take effect.
    (b) Severability.--If any provision of this Act, or an amendment 
made by this Act, or the application of such provision to any person or 
circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this Act, or an 
amendment made by this Act, or the application of such provision to 
other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.