[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2520 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2520
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
agencies

 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                   TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management


                     management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, and 
performance of other functions, including maintenance of facilities, as 
authorized by law, in the management of lands and their resources under 
the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general 
administration of the Bureau of Land Management, $599,860,000, of which 
the following amounts shall remain available until expended: $1,462,000 
to be derived from the special receipt account established by section 4 
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 
U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)), and $69,418,000 for the Automated Land and Mineral 
Record System Project: Provided, That appropriations herein made shall 
not be available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses 
and burros in the care of the Bureau of Land Management or its 
contractors; and in addition, $15,300,000 for Mining Law Administration 
program operations to remain available through September 30, 1994, to be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau of Land Management and 
credited to this appropriation from annual mining claim fees so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 1994 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $599,860,000: Provided further, That in addition to funds otherwise 
available, not to exceed $5,000,000 from annual mining claim fees shall 
be credited to this account for the costs of administering the mining 
claim fee program, and shall remain available until expended.


                              fire protection

    For necessary expenses for fire management, emergency 
rehabilitation, fire presuppression and preparedness, and other related 
emergency actions by the Department of the Interior, $117,143,000, to 
remain available until expended.


          emergency department of the interior firefighting fund

    For emergency rehabilitation, severity presuppression, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Department of the Interior, $116,674,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That such funds also are 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from 
which funds were previously transferred for such purposes: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, persons hired 
pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging 
without cost from funds available from this appropriation: Provided 
further, That only amounts for emergency rehabilitation and wildfire 
suppression activities that are in excess of the average of such costs 
for the previous ten years shall be considered ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.


                          construction and access

    For acquisition of lands and interests therein, and construction of 
buildings, recreation facilities, roads, trails, and appurtenant 
facilities, $10,467,000, to remain available until expended.


                         payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976 (31 
U.S.C. 6901-07), $104,108,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 205, 
206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94-579 including administrative expenses 
and acquisition of lands or waters, or interests therein, $12,122,000, 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain 
available until expended.


                     oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-of-
way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including existing 
connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; $83,052,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 per centum of the 
aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year from the 
revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby made a 
charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and shall be 
transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance with the 
provisions of the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the 
Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 876).


                            range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 per centum 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 
15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,025,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses.


                service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be collected 
under sections 209(b), 304(a), 304(b), 305(a), and 504(g) of the Act 
approved October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and sections 101 and 203 of 
Public Law 93-153, to be immediately available until expended: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of 
the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have 
been or will be received pursuant to that section, whether as a result 
of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if not appropriate for refund 
pursuant to section 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be 
available and may be expended under the authority of this or subsequent 
appropriations Acts by the Secretary to improve, protect, or 
rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of Land 
Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such forfeiture, 
compromise, or settlement are used on the exact lands damage to which 
led to the forfeiture, compromise, or settlement: Provided further, That 
such moneys are in excess of amounts needed to repair damage to the 
exact land for which collected.

                        miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing law, 
there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed under 
section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for information or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the Bureau of 
Land Management; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
services from cooperators in connection with jointly-produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing either 
in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator is 
capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                            resource management

    For expenses necessary for scientific and economic studies, 
conservation, management, investigations, protection, and utilization of 
sport fishery and wildlife resources, except whales, seals, and sea 
lions, and for the performance of other authorized functions related to 
such resources; for the general administration of the United States Fish 
and Wildlife Service; and for maintenance of the herd of long-horned 
cattle on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge; and not less than 
$1,000,000 for high priority projects within the scope of the approved 
budget which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as 
authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public Law 93-
408, $484,313,000, of which $11,799,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance of fishery mitigation facilities constructed by the Corps of 
Engineers under the Lower Snake River Compensation Plan, authorized by 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2921), to 
compensate for loss of fishery resources from water development projects 
on the Lower Snake River, and which shall remain available until 
expended; and of which $2,500,000 shall be provided to the National Fish 
and Wildlife Foundation for endangered species activities: Provided, 
That such amount shall be matched by at least an equal amount by the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.

                              construction

    For construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities 
required in the conservation, management, investigation, protection, and 
utilization of sport fishery and wildlife resources, and the acquisition 
of lands and interests therein; $73,565,000, to remain available until 
expended of which $1,800,000 shall be available as a grant from the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service to Ducks Unlimited, Inc., for 
construction of the Federal portion of the dike and pumping station at 
Metzger Marsh: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law 
a single procurement for the construction of facilities at the Walnut 
Creek National Wildlife Refuge, Iowa may be issued which includes the 
full scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and 
the contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 
48 CFR 52.323.18.


          natural resource damage assessment and restoration fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessments and restoration 
activities by the Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the 
provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq.), Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.), the Oil 
Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380), and the Act of July 27, 1990 
(Public Law 101-337); $6,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts 
appropriated or credited in fiscal year 1992 and thereafter, may be 
transferred to any account to carry out the provisions of negotiated 
legal settlements or other legal actions for restoration activities and 
to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601, et seq.), 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251, et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380), and the Act 
of July 27, 1990 (Public Law 101-337) for damage assessment activities: 
Provided further, That sums provided by any party are not limited to 
monetary payments and may include stocks, bonds or other personal or 
real property, which may be retained, liquidated or otherwise disposed 
of by the Secretary and such sums or properties shall be utilized for 
the restoration of injured resources, and to conduct new damage 
assessment activities.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and for 
activities authorized under Public Law 98-244 to be carried out by the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, $82,655,000, to be derived from 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended.


             cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended by Public Law 100-
478, $9,000,000 for Grants to States, to be derived from the Cooperative 
Endangered Species Conservation Fund, and to remain available until 
expended.


                       national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $12,000,000.


                          rewards and operations

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the African 
Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 
4241-4245, and 1538), $1,169,000, to remain available until expended.


                 north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, $12,000,000, and 
in fiscal year 1992 and thereafter, amounts received during the 
immediately preceding fiscal year under section 6 of the Migratory Bird 
Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 707) as penalties or fines or from forfeitures of 
property or collateral, to remain available until expended.


                wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For deposit to the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be available for 
carrying out the Partnerships for Wildlife Act only to the extent such 
funds are matched as provided in section 7105 of said Act.


                         administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 130 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 112 are for replacement only 
(including 43 for police-type use); not to exceed $400,000 for payment, 
at the discretion of the Secretary, for information, rewards, or 
evidence concerning violations of laws administered by the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service, and miscellaneous and emergency expenses of 
enforcement activities, authorized or approved by the Secretary and to 
be accounted for solely on his certificate; repair of damage to public 
roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; options for the purchase of 
land at not to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to such 
public recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent with 
their primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service and to which the United States has 
title, and which are utilized pursuant to law in connection with 
management and investigation of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, 
That the United States Fish and Wildlife Service may accept donated 
aircraft as replacements for existing aircraft.

                       National Biological Survey


                    research, inventories, and surveys

    For expenses necessary for scientific research relating to species 
biology, population dynamics, and ecosystems; inventory and monitoring 
activities; technology development and transfer; the operation of 
Cooperative Research Units; and for the general administration of the 
National Biological Survey, $163,519,000, of which $162,092,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 1995, and of which $1,427,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction: Provided, That none of 
the funds under this head shall be used to conduct new surveys on 
private property unless specifically authorized in writing by the 
property owner.

                          National Park Service


                   operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not to exceed $1,599,000 for the 
Volunteers-in-Parks program, $38,400 for a lump-sum payment to Marlene 
Anita Hudson of Washington, District of Columbia, which payment shall be 
in addition to any other amount that is otherwise payable under any 
other provision of law based on the death of James A. Hudson, and not 
less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within the scope of the 
approved budget which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation 
Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended by Public 
Law 93-408, $1,061,823,000, without regard to the Act of August 24, 
1912, as amended (16 U.S.C. 451), of which not to exceed $78,559,000 to 
remain available until expended is to be derived from the special fee 
account established pursuant to title V, section 5201, of Public Law 
100-203.


                   national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, environmental compliance and review, 
international park affairs, statutory or contractual aid for other 
activities, and grant administration, not otherwise provided for, 
$42,585,000.


                        historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915), as amended (16 U.S.C. 
470), $40,000,000 to be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, 
established by section 108 of that Act, as amended, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1995.


                               construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, $201,724,000, to remain available until expended, $4,377,000 
to be derived from amounts made available under this head in Public Law 
101-512 as a grant for the restoration of the Keith Albee Theatre in 
Huntington, West Virginia, and $1,844,000 to be derived from amounts 
made available under this head in Public Law 102-381 for a pedestrian 
walkway and interpretive park (A Walk on the Mountain): Provided, That 
$2,000,000 for the Boston Public Library and $500,000 for the Penn 
Center shall be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund pursuant to 
16 U.S.C. 470a: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, not to exceed $350,000 shall be made available to the City of 
Hot Springs, Arkansas, to be used as part of the non-Federal share of a 
cost-shared feasibility study of flood protection for the downtown area 
which contains a significant amount of National Park Service property 
and improvements: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law a single procurement for the construction of the 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial may be issued which includes the full 
scope of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and the 
contract shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 
CFR 52.323.18: Provided further, That for the purpose of performing an 
environmental impact statement (EIS) on the Paseo del Norte alignment, 
the National Park Service's proposed Calabacillas alternative road 
alignment, and any other alternative routes in association with the 
Petroglyph National Monument in Albuquerque, New Mexico, $400,000 is to 
be allocated to the City of Albuquerque to perform the EIS, only in the 
event that the City of Albuquerque and the National Park Service reach 
mutual agreement, within 75 days of the date of enactment of this Act, 
on the conditions that must be met for the study, such funds to be 
derived by transfer from balances available in the ``Land acquisition 
and State assistance'' account, National Park Service: Provided further, 
That $1,500,000 for the New England Conservatory shall be derived from 
the Historic Preservation Fund pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 470a upon 
designation as a National Historic Landmark.


                      urban park and recreation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Urban Park 
and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501-2514), $5,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.


                     land and water conservation fund

                               (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 1994 by 16 U.S.C. 
460l-10a is rescinded.


                   land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the National Park Service, $95,250,000 to be derived from 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended, of which $28,053,000 is for the State assistance program 
including $3,303,000 to administer the State assistance program: 
Provided, That of the amounts previously appropriated to the Secretary's 
contingency fund for grants to States $9,000 shall be available in 1994 
for administrative expenses of the State grant program.


              john f. kennedy center for the performing arts

    For expenses necessary for operating and maintaining the John F. 
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $20,629,000, of which 
$12,697,000 shall remain available until expended.


     illinois and michigan canal national heritage corridor commission

    For operation of the Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage 
Corridor Commission, $250,000.


                         administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 447 passenger motor vehicles, of which 323 
shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 345 for police-
type use, 12 buses, and 5 ambulances: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act may be used to upgrade the Burr Trail National Rural Scenic 
Road in Utah except to meet health, safety and environmental concerns: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated to the National 
Park Service may be used to process any grant or contract documents 
which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Park Service 
may hereafter recover all costs of providing necessary services 
associated with special use permits, such reimbursements to be credited 
to the appropriation current at that time: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to 
implement an agreement for the redevelopment of the southern end of 
Ellis Island until such agreement has been submitted to the Congress and 
shall not be implemented prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days 
(not including any day in which either House of Congress is not in 
session because of adjournment of more than three calendar days to a day 
certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and the President of the Senate of a full and comprehensive report on 
the development of the southern end of Ellis Island, including the facts 
and circumstances relied upon in support of the proposed project.

                     United States Geological Survey


                   surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, and the mineral and water resources of the United 
States, its Territories and possessions, and other areas as authorized 
by law (43 U.S.C. 31, 1332 and 1340); classify lands as to their mineral 
and water resources; give engineering supervision to power permittees 
and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; administer the 
minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $584,685,000, of 
which $63,488,000 shall be available only for cooperation with States or 
municipalities for water resources investigations: Provided, That no 
part of this appropriation shall be used to pay more than one-half the 
cost of any topographic mapping or water resources investigations 
carried on in cooperation with any State or municipality: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law a single 
procurement for the construction of an addition to the EROS Data Center 
in Sioux Falls, South Dakota may be issued which includes the full scope 
of the project: Provided further, That the solicitation and the contract 
shall contain the clause ``availability of funds'' found at 48 CFR 
52.323.18.


                         administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 22 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; reimbursement to the General Services 
Administration for security guard services; contracting for the 
furnishing of topographic maps and for the making of geophysical or 
other specialized surveys when it is administratively determined that 
such procedures are in the public interest; construction and maintenance 
of necessary buildings and appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands 
for gauging stations and observation wells; expenses of the United 
States National Committee on Geology; and payment of compensation and 
expenses of persons on the rolls of the United States Geological Survey 
appointed, as authorized by law, to represent the United States in the 
negotiation and administration of interstate compacts: Provided, That 
activities funded by appropriations herein made may be accomplished 
through the use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as 
defined in Public Law 95-224.

                       Minerals Management Service


                      leasing and royalty management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of royalties, 
as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations applicable to 
oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses and operating 
contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements; including 
the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only; $193,197,000, of which not less than $65,796,000 shall 
be available for royalty management activities; and an amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000 for the Technical Information Management System of 
Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Lands Activity, to be credited to this 
appropriation and to remain available until expended, from additions to 
current preset receipts and from additional fee collections relating to 
OCS administrative activities performed by the Minerals Management 
Service over and above what the Minerals Management Service currently 
collects to offset its costs for these activities: Provided, That 
$1,500,000 for computer acquisitions shall remain available until 
September 30, 1995: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
Act shall be available for the payment of interest in accordance with 30 
U.S.C. 1721 (b) and (d): Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000 
shall be available for reasonable expenses related to promoting 
volunteer beach and marine cleanup activities: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $15,000 under this head 
shall be available for refunds of overpayments in connection with 
certain Indian leases in which the Director of the Minerals Management 
Service concurred with the claimed refund due: Provided further, That 
the sixth proviso under the heading ``Leasing and Royalty Management'' 
for the Minerals Management Service in Public Law 102-381 (106 Stat. 
1385-1386) is amended by striking the words ``this account'' after the 
words ``shall be credited to'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``the 
leasing and royalty management account of the Minerals Management 
Service''.


                            oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out the purposes of title I, section 
1016, and title VII of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $5,331,000, which 
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended.

                             Bureau of Mines


                            mines and minerals

    For expenses necessary for conducting inquiries, technological 
investigations, and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, 
and disposal of mineral substances without objectionable social and 
environmental costs; to foster and encourage private enterprise in the 
development of mineral resources and the prevention of waste in the 
mining, minerals, metal, and mineral reclamation industries; to inquire 
into the economic conditions affecting those industries; to promote 
health and safety in mines and the mineral industry through research; 
and for other related purposes as authorized by law, $169,436,000, of 
which $105,163,000 shall remain available until expended.


                         administrative provisions

    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
other contributions, and fees from public and private sources, and to 
prosecute projects using such contributions and fees in cooperation with 
other Federal, State or private agencies: Provided, That the Bureau of 
Mines is authorized, during the current fiscal year, to sell directly or 
through any Government agency, including corporations, any metal or 
mineral product that may be manufactured in pilot plants operated by the 
Bureau of Mines, and the proceeds of such sales shall be covered into 
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement


                         regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 15 passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; $110,552,000, and notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, an additional amount shall be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended, from performance bond forfeitures in 
fiscal year 1994: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, may utilize 
directly or through grants to States, moneys collected in fiscal year 
1994 pursuant to the assessment of civil penalties under section 518 of 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1268), 
to reclaim lands adversely affected by coal mining practices after 
August 3, 1977, to remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provisions of law, appropriations for the 
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement may provide for the 
travel and per diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending 
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.


                      abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of title IV of 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-
87, as amended, including the purchase of not more than 22 passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only, $190,107,000 to be derived from 
receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the funds herein provided up to 
$20,000,000 may be used for the emergency program authorized by section 
410 of Public Law 95-87, as amended, of which no more than 25 per centum 
shall be used for emergency reclamation projects in any one State and 
funds for Federally-administered emergency reclamation projects under 
this proviso shall not exceed $12,000,000: Provided further, That 
pursuant to Public Law 97-365, the Department of the Interior is 
authorized to utilize up to 20 per centum from the recovery of the 
delinquent debt owed to the United States Government to pay for 
contracts to collect these debts.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

    For operation of Indian programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
cooperative agreements, and grants including expenses necessary to 
provide education and welfare services for Indians, either directly or 
in cooperation with States and other organizations, including payment of 
care, tuition, assistance, and other expenses of Indians in boarding 
homes, or institutions, or schools; grants and other assistance to needy 
Indians; maintenance of law and order; management, development, 
improvement, and protection of resources and appurtenant facilities 
under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including 
payment of irrigation assessments and charges; acquisition of water 
rights; advances for Indian industrial and business enterprises; 
operation of Indian arts and crafts shops and museums; development of 
Indian arts and crafts, as authorized by law; for the general 
administration of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including such expenses 
in field offices; maintaining of Indian reservation roads as defined in 
section 101 of title 23, United States Code; and construction, repair, 
and improvement of Indian housing, $1,490,805,000, including 
$316,111,000 for school operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and 
other education programs which shall become available for obligation on 
July 1, 1994, and shall remain available for obligation until September 
30, 1995, and $49,226,000 for housing and road maintenance programs, to 
remain available until expended, and of which, payments of funds 
obligated as grants to schools pursuant to Public Law 100-297 shall be 
made on July 1 and December 1 in lieu of the payments authorized to be 
made on October 1 and January 1 of each calendar year, and of which not 
to exceed $74,764,000 for higher education scholarships, adult 
vocational training, and assistance to public schools under the Act of 
April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 452 et seq.), shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1995; and the funds 
made available to tribes and tribal organizations through contracts or 
grants obligated during fiscal year 1994 as authorized by the Indian 
Self-Determination Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), 
or grants authorized by the Indian Education Amendments of 1988 (25 
U.S.C. 2001 and 2008A) shall remain available until expended by the 
contractor or grantee; and of which $1,983,000 for litigation support 
shall remain available until expended, $4,934,000 for self-governance 
tribal compacts shall be made available on completion and submission of 
such compacts to the Congress, and shall remain available until 
expended; and of which $1,179,000 for expenses necessary to carry out 
the provisions of section 19(a) of Public Law 93-531 (25 U.S.C. 640d-
18(a)), shall remain available until expended: Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated to the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall be expended 
as matching funds for programs funded under section 103(b)(2) of the 
Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act: Provided further, That of the 
amount appropriated under this head in Public Law 102-381, any 
unobligated balance as of September 30, 1993 related to the Alaska 
Native Claims Settlement Act shall remain available until expended and 
may be obligated under a grant to the Alaska Native Foundation for 
education, training, and technical assistance to Alaskan village 
corporations for reconveyance requirements: Provided further, That 
$199,000 of the funds made available in this Act shall be available for 
cyclical maintenance of tribally owned fish hatcheries and related 
facilities: Provided further, That not to exceed $91,223,000 of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for payments to tribes and tribal 
organizations for indirect costs associated with contracts or grants or 
compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as 
amended, for fiscal year 1994 and previous years: Provided further, That 
for the purpose of Indian Reservation road construction, all public 
Indian reservation roads (as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101), identified in 
the 1990 Bureau of Indian Affairs Juneau Area Transportation Study (and 
in any subsequent update of such Transportation Study) shall be included 
as BIA system adjusted miles in the Bureau of Indian Affairs highway 
trust fund formula for distribution for fiscal year 1994: Provided 
further, That this provision shall expire upon implementation by the 
Secretary of the Interior of a relative needs based highway trust fund 
allocation formula pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 202(d): Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be used by the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs to transfer funds under a contract with any third party for the 
management of tribal or individual Indian trust funds until the funds 
held in trust for all such tribes or individuals have been audited and 
reconciled to the earliest possible date, the results of such 
reconciliation have been certified by an independent party as the most 
complete reconciliation of such funds possible, and the affected tribe 
or individual has been provided with an accounting of such funds: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
statute of limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, including 
any claim in litigation pending on the date of this Act, concerning 
losses to or mismanagement of trust funds, until the affected tribe or 
individual Indian has been furnished with the accounting of such funds 
from which the beneficiary can determine whether there has been a loss: 
Provided further, That $297,000 of the amounts provided for education 
program management shall be available for a grant to the Close Up 
Foundation: Provided further, That the Task Force on Bureau of Indian 
Affairs Reorganization shall continue activities under its charter as 
adopted and amended on April 17, 1991: Provided further, That any 
reorganization proposal shall not be implemented until the Task Force 
has reviewed it and recommended its implementation to the Secretary and 
such proposal has been submitted to and approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations, except that the Bureau may submit a reorganization 
proposal related only to management improvements, along with Task Force 
comments or recommendations to the Committees on Appropriations for 
review and disposition by the Committees: Provided further, That to 
provide funding uniformity within a Self-Governance Compact, any funds 
provided in this Act with availability for more than one year may be 
reprogrammed to one year availability but shall remain available within 
the Compact until expended: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, Indian tribal governments may, by appropriate 
changes in eligibility criteria or by other means, change eligibility 
for general assistance or change the amount of general assistance 
payments for individuals within the service area of such tribe who are 
otherwise deemed eligible for general assistance payments so long as 
such changes are applied in a consistent manner to individuals similarly 
situated: Provided further, That any savings realized by such changes 
shall be available for use in meeting other priorities of the tribes: 
Provided further, That any such change must be part of a comprehensive 
tribal plan for reducing the long-term need for general assistance 
payments: Provided further, That any such tribal plan must incorporate, 
to the greatest extent feasible, currently existing social service, 
educational training, and employment assistance resources prior to 
changing general assistance eligibility or payment standards which would 
have the effect of increasing the cost of general assistance: Provided 
further, That any net increase in costs to the Federal government which 
result solely from tribally increased payment levels and which are not 
part of such a comprehensive tribal plan shall be met exclusively from 
funds available to the tribe from within its tribal priority allocation: 
Provided further, That any forestry funds allocated to a tribe which 
remain unobligated as of September 30, 1994, may be transferred during 
fiscal year 1995 to an Indian forest land assistance account established 
for the benefit of such tribe within the tribe's trust fund account: 
Provided further, That any such unobligated balances not so transferred 
shall expire on September 30, 1995: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs, other than the amounts provided herein for 
assistance to public schools under the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 
596), as amended (25 U.S.C. 452 et seq.), shall be available to support 
the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the State of 
Alaska in fiscal year 1994: Provided further, That the Bureau shall form 
a Joint Task Force with representatives of Alaska Natives and Alaska 
schools to examine the needs of the schools and formulate 
recommendations to address those needs in fiscal year 1994: Provided 
further, That any funds provided under this head or previously provided 
for tribally-controlled community colleges which are distributed prior 
to September 30, 1994 which have been or are being invested or 
administered in compliance with section 331 of the Higher Education Act 
shall be deemed to be in compliance for current and future purposes with 
title III of the Tribally Controlled Community Colleges Assistance Act.

                              construction

    For construction, major repair, and improvement of irrigation and 
power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of lands 
and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, 
$166,979,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$1,500,000 of the funds made available in this Act shall be available 
for rehabilitation of tribally owned fish hatcheries and related 
facilities: Provided further, That such amounts as may be available for 
the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project and for other 
water resource development activities related to the Salt River Pima-
Maricopa Water Rights Settlement Act, Southern Arizona Water Rights 
Settlement Act and Fort McDowell Indian Community Water Rights 
Settlement Act may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation: Provided 
further, That not to exceed 6 per centum of contract authority available 
to the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may 
be used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs: Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety 
of Dams program pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a 
non-reimbursable basis.


  indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                 indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 87-483, 97-293, 100-512, 101-486, 101-602, 101-
618, 101-628, 102-441, 102-575, and for implementation of other enacted 
water rights settlements, and for necessary administrative expenses, 
$103,259,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds provided herein, $1,260,000 shall be available pursuant to Public 
Laws 96-420, 98-500, 99-264, and 100-580; and $3,000,000 shall be 
available (1) to liquidate obligations owed tribal and individual Indian 
payees of any checks canceled pursuant to section 1003 of the 
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-86 (101 Stat. 
659)), 31 U.S.C. 3334(b), and (2) to restore to Individual Indian Monies 
trust funds amounts invested in credit unions or defaulted savings and 
loan associations and which were not Federally insured, including any 
interest on these amounts that may have been earned, but was not because 
of the default.


                     navajo rehabilitation trust fund

    For Navajo tribal rehabilitation and improvement activities in 
accordance with the provisions of section 32(d) of Public Law 93-531, as 
amended (25 U.S.C. 640d-30), including necessary administrative 
expenses, $2,466,000, to remain available until expended.


                technical assistance of indian enterprises

    For payment of management and technical assistance requests 
associated with loans and grants approved under the Indian Financing Act 
of 1974, as amended, $1,970,000.


                    indian direct loan program account

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, including the cost of modifying loans, of expert assistance 
loans authorized by the Act of November 4, 1963, as amended, and the 
cost of direct loans authorized by the Indian Financing Act of 1974, as 
amended, $2,484,000: Provided, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $10,890,000.


                  indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $8,784,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total loan 
principal any part of which is to be guaranteed not to exceed 
$69,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $906,000.


                         administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
the Technical Assistance of Indian Enterprises account, the Indian 
Direct Loan Program account, and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program 
account) shall be available for expenses of exhibits, and purchase of 
not to exceed 260 passenger carrying motor vehicles, of which not to 
exceed 212 shall be for replacement only.

                  Territorial and International Affairs


                       administration of territories

    For expenses necessary for the administration of territories under 
the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $81,907,000, of 
which (1) $77,369,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, drug 
interdiction and abuse prevention, insular management controls, and 
brown tree snake control and research; grants to the judiciary in 
American Samoa for compensation and expenses, as authorized by law (48 
U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of American Samoa, in addition 
to current local revenues, for construction and support of governmental 
functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands as authorized 
by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and 
grants to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands as authorized 
by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $4,538,000 shall be 
available for salaries and expenses of the Office of Territorial and 
International Affairs: Provided, That all financial transactions of the 
territorial and local governments herein provided for, including such 
transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities established or 
utilized by such governments, shall be audited by the General Accounting 
Office, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code: 
Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding 
shall be provided according to those terms of the Agreement of the 
Special Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance for 
the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 99-396, or any 
subsequent legislation related to Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands Covenant grant funding, except that should the Secretary of the 
Interior believe that the performance standards of such agreement are 
not being met, operations funds may be withheld, but only by Act of 
Congress as required by Public Law 99-396: Provided further, That 
$1,025,000 of the amounts provided for technical assistance shall be 
available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, That 
the funds for the program of operations and maintenance improvement are 
appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and maintenance of 
capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia 
through assessments of long-range operations and maintenance needs, 
improved capability of local operations and maintenance institutions and 
agencies (including management and vocational education training), and 
project-specific maintenance (with territorial participation and cost 
sharing to be determined by the Secretary based on the individual 
territory's commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): 
Provided further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under 
this head in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as 
non-Federal matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants 
provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).


                  trust territory of the pacific islands

    For expenses necessary for the Department of the Interior in 
administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands pursuant to 
the Trusteeship Agreement approved by joint resolution of July 18, 1947 
(61 Stat. 397), and the Act of June 30, 1954 (68 Stat. 330), as amended 
(90 Stat. 299; 91 Stat. 1159; 92 Stat. 495), and grants to the Trust 
Territory of the Pacific Islands, in addition to local revenues, for 
support of governmental functions; $23,838,000, to remain available 
until expended, including $18,464,000 for operations of the Government 
of Palau: Provided, That all financial transactions of the Trust 
Territory, including such transactions of all agencies or 
instrumentalities established or utilized by such Trust Territory, shall 
be audited by the General Accounting Office in accordance with chapter 
35 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That all 
Government operations funds appropriated and obligated for the Republic 
of Palau under this account for fiscal year 1994 shall be credited as an 
offset against fiscal year 1994 payments made pursuant to the 
legislation approving the Palau Compact of Free Association (Public Law 
99-658), if such Compact is implemented before October 1, 1994: Provided 
further, That not less than $300,000 of the grants to the Republic of 
Palau, for support of governmental functions, shall be dedicated to the 
College of Micronesia in accordance with the agreement between the 
Micronesian entities.


                        compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compacts of 
Free Association, $22,102,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by Public Law 99-239: Provided, That the effective date of 
the Palau Compact for purposes of economic assistance pursuant to the 
Palau Compact of Free Association, Public Law 99-658, shall be the 
effective date of the Palau Compact as determined pursuant to section 
101 of Public Law 101-219.

                          Departmental Offices

                         Office of the Secretary


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the 
Interior, $64,111,000 of which not to exceed $7,500 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                       Ecosystem Restoration Fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the President's Forest Plan for 
``Jobs in the Woods'' ecosystem restoration in Northern California, 
Washington, and Oregon, $7,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 1995: Provided, That with the approval of the Secretary, such 
amounts as may be identified in implementation plans may be transferred 
to the Bureau of Land Management, the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs.

                         Office of the Solicitor


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $33,359,000.

                       Office of Inspector General


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
$24,283,000.

                         Construction Management


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Construction Management, 
$2,394,000.

                    National Indian Gaming Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Indian Gaming Commission, 
pursuant to Public Law 100-497, $1,000,000.


                         administrative provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 18 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in the ``Office of the Secretary'', 
``Office of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer of 
any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or 
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the 
Interior; for the emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under 
its jurisdiction; for emergency actions related to potential or actual 
earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for 
contingency planning subsequent to actual oilspills; response and 
natural resource damage assessment activities related to actual 
oilspills; for the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or 
potential grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 
1773(b) of Public Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation 
projects under section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from 
any no year funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
and Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of 
regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out 
the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for fire suppression purposes shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection with 
their use for fire suppression purposes, such reimbursement to be 
credited to appropriations currently available at the time of receipt 
thereof: Provided further, That for emergency rehabilitation and 
wildfire suppression activities, no funds shall be made available under 
this authority until funds appropriated to the ``Emergency Department of 
the Interior Firefighting Fund'' shall have been exhausted: Provided 
further, That all funds used pursuant to this section are hereby 
designated by Congress to be ``emergency requirements'' pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 and must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation which must be requested as promptly as possible: Provided 
further, That such replenishment funds shall be used to reimburse, on a 
pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or 
economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the Interior 
for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
obligation in connection with contracts issued by the General Services 
Administration for services or rentals for periods not in excess of 
twelve months beginning at any time during the fiscal year.
    Sec. 107. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of Northern, 
Central, and Southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 108. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of leasing, or the approval 
or permitting of any drilling or other exploration activity, on lands 
within the North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 109. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico for Outer Continental Shelf 
Lease Sale 137 or for Sale 151 in the April 1992 proposal for the Outer 
Continental Shelf Natural Gas and Oil Resource Management Comprehensive 
Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of preleasing and leasing 
activities in the Atlantic for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 164 in 
the April 1992 proposal for the Outer Continental Shelf Natural Gas and 
Oil Resource Management Comprehensive Program, 1992-1997.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds in this Act may be used to publish a 
National final rule defining the term ``valid existing rights'' for 
purposes of section 522(e) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act of 1977 or to publish a final rule disapproving any existing State 
definition of valid existing rights.
    Sec. 112. In implementing section 1307 of Public Law 96-487 (94 
Stat. 2479), the Secretary shall deem the holder of entry permit LP-
GLBA005-93 to be a person who, on or before January 1, 1979, was engaged 
in adequately providing visitor services of the type authorized in said 
permit within Glacier Bay National Park.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service


                              forest research

    For necessary expenses of forest research as authorized by law, 
$193,083,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995.


                        state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with, and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, Territories, possessions, and 
others; and for forest pest management activities, $168,107,000, to 
remain available until expended, as authorized by law: Provided, That of 
the funds previously appropriated under this head as a grant to the 
National Tree Trust Foundation, $2,500,000 shall be provided as a grant 
to the Texas Reforestation Foundation.


                      emergency pest suppression fund

    For necessary expenses for emergency suppression of pests, 
$15,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds, or any portion thereof, shall be available in fiscal year 1994 
only to the extent that the President notifies the Congress of his 
designation of any or all of these amounts as emergency requirements 
under section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That Congress hereby designates 
these amounts as emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.


                          international forestry

    For necessary expenses of international forestry as authorized by 
Public Laws 101-513 and 101-624, $6,996,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1995.


                          national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization of the 
National Forest System, and for administrative expenses associated with 
the management of funds provided under the heads ``Forest Research'', 
``State and Private Forestry'', ``National Forest System'', 
``Construction'', ``Forest Service Fire Protection'', ``Emergency Forest 
Service Firefighting Fund'', and ``Land Acquisition'', $1,304,891,000, 
including not less than $55,552,000 for law enforcement, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1995, and including 65 per 
centum of all monies received during the prior fiscal year as fees 
collected under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as 
amended, in accordance with section 4 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)): 
Provided, That unobligated and unexpended balances in the National 
Forest System account at the end of fiscal year 1993, shall be merged 
with and made a part of the fiscal year 1994 National Forest System 
appropriation, and shall remain available for obligation until September 
30, 1995: Provided further, That timber volume authorized or scheduled 
for sale during fiscal year 1993, but which remains unsold at the end of 
fiscal year 1993, shall be offered for sale during fiscal year 1994 in 
addition to the fiscal year 1994 timber sale volume to the extent 
possible: Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 of the funds provided 
herein for road maintenance shall be available for the planned 
obliteration of roads which are no longer needed.


                      forest service fire protection

    For necessary expenses for firefighting on or adjacent to National 
Forest System lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, and 
for forest fire management and presuppression on National Forest System 
lands, $190,108,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
unexpended balances of amounts previously appropriated for this purpose 
under the heading ``Forest Service Firefighting'', Forest Service, may 
be transferred to and merged with this appropriation and accounted for 
as one appropriation for the same time period as originally enacted.

               emergency forest service firefighting fund

    For necessary expenses for emergency rehabilitation, presuppression 
due to emergencies or economic efficiency, and wildfire suppression 
activities of the Forest Service, $190,222,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That such funds are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriation accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes.


                               construction

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, for construction, $249,002,000, including road obliteration and 
watershed restoration, to remain available until expended, of which 
$20,000,000 is for watershed restoration; $99,347,000 is for 
construction and acquisition of buildings and other facilities; and 
$129,655,000 is for construction and repair of forest roads and trails 
by the Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 
101 and 205: Provided, That funds becoming available in fiscal year 1994 
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to 
the General Fund of the Treasury of the United States: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $60,000,000, to remain available until expended, may 
be obligated for the construction of forest roads by timber purchasers.


                             land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4-11), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the Forest Service, $64,250,000, to be derived from the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended and 
$300,000 which shall be derived from funds appropriated under this head 
in Public Law 101-512 for acquisition of land and interests therein at 
and near the Old Chief Joseph Gravesite and which shall be available for 
all activities under this heading.


                 acquisition of lands for national forests

                               special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,212,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.


              acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, to be derived from funds deposited by 
State, county, or municipal governments, public school districts, or 
other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967, 
as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until expended.

                          range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 per centum of all moneys received during the prior 
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the sixteen Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed 6 per centum shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, protection, 
and improvements.


      gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $96,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.

                administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (a) purchase of not to exceed 182 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 20 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 164 shall be for replacement only, of which 
acquisition of 122 passenger motor vehicles shall be from excess 
sources, and hire of such vehicles; operation and maintenance of 
aircraft, the purchase of not to exceed two for replacement only, and 
acquisition of 28 aircraft from excess sources; notwithstanding other 
provisions of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price for 
the replacement aircraft; (b) services pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $100,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (c) purchase, 
erection, and alteration of buildings and other public improvements (7 
U.S.C. 2250); (d) acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein, 
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 428a); (e) for expenses 
pursuant to the Volunteers in the National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
558a, 558d, 558a note); and (f) for debt collection contracts in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to change the boundaries of any region, to abolish any 
region, to move or close any regional office for research, State and 
private forestry, or National Forest System administration of the Forest 
Service, Department of Agriculture, without the consent of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry in the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Agriculture in the United States House of Representatives.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
advanced to the Forest Service Firefighting appropriation and may be 
used for forest firefighting and the emergency rehabilitation of burned-
over lands under its jurisdiction: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds appropriated to the 
``Emergency Forest Service Firefighting Fund'' shall have been 
exhausted.
    The appropriation structure for the Forest Service may not be 
altered without advanced approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Office of International Cooperation and Development in connection 
with forest and rangeland research, technical information, and 
assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with United States 
and international organizations.
    All funds received for timber salvage sales may be credited to the 
Forest Service Permanent Appropriations to be expended for timber 
salvage sales from any national forest, and for timber sales preparation 
to replace sales lost to fire or other causes, and sales preparation to 
replace sales inventory on the shelf for any national forest to a level 
sufficient to maintain new sales availability equal to a rolling five-
year average of the total sales offerings, and for design, engineering, 
and supervision of construction of roads lost to fire or other causes 
associated with the timber sales programs described above, and for 
watershed assessment activities: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, monies received from the timber salvage sales 
program shall be considered as money received for purposes of computing 
and distributing 25 per centum payments to local governments under 16 
U.S.C. 500, as amended.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in House Report 102-116.
    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service may be used to disseminate program 
information to private and public individuals and organizations through 
the use of nonmonetary items of nominal value and to provide nonmonetary 
awards of nominal value and to incur necessary expenses for the 
nonmonetary recognition of private individuals and organizations that 
make contributions to Forest Service programs.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, money collected, in 
advance or otherwise, by the Forest Service under authority of section 
101 of Public Law 93-153 (30 U.S.C. 185(1)) as reimbursement of 
administrative and other costs incurred in processing pipeline right-of-
way or permit applications and for costs incurred in monitoring the 
construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of any pipeline 
and related facilities, may be used to reimburse the applicable 
appropriation to which such costs were originally charged.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as 
amended by Public Law 93-408.
    None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for timber 
sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 
percent of the fiscal year 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National 
Forest, Ohio: Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to hardwood 
stands damaged by natural disaster: Provided further, That landscape 
architects shall be used to maintain a visually pleasing forest.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act 
shall be expended for the purpose of administering a special use 
authorization permitting land use and occupancy and surface disturbing 
activities for any project to be constructed on Rock Creek, Madera 
County, California, until a study has been completed and submitted to 
the Congress by the Forest Service in consultation with the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service, the United States Army Corps of 
Engineers, the California State Water Resources Control Board, the 
California Department of Fish and Game and other interested public 
parties regarding the project's potential cumulative impacts on the 
environment, together with a finding that there will be no substantial 
adverse impact on the environment. Findings from the study must be 
presented at no less than three public meetings.
    Any money collected from the States for fire suppression assistance 
rendered by the Forest Service on non-Federal lands not in the vicinity 
of National Forest System lands shall be used to reimburse the 
applicable appropriation and shall remain available until expended as 
the Secretary may direct in conducting activities authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 2101 (note), 2101-2110, 1606, and 2111.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available to 
the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Forest Service is 
authorized to employ or otherwise contract with persons at regular rates 
of pay, as determined by the Service, to perform work occasioned by 
emergencies such as fires, storms, floods, earthquakes or any other 
unavoidable cause without regard to Sundays, Federal holidays, and the 
regular workweek.
    To the greatest extent possible, and in accordance with the Final 
Amendment to the Shawnee National Forest Plan, none of the funds 
available in this Act shall be used for preparation of timber sales 
using clearcutting or other forms of even aged management in hardwood 
stands in the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois.
    None of the funds made available in this Act shall be used for 
timber sale planning or scoping using clearcutting in the Ouachita and 
Ozark-St. Francis National Forests in Arkansas, except for sales that 
are necessary as a result of natural disaster or a threat to forest 
health, or for maintaining or enhancing wildlife habitat, or habitat for 
endangered and threatened species, or for research purposes.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service in this Act shall 
be used to plan or conduct timber sales or to plan or build roads in the 
Rocky Face, Hidden Creek or Johns Mountain areas of the Chattahoochee 
National Forest, Georgia.
    Pursuant to section 405(b), and section 410(b) of Public Law 101-
593, funds up to $1,000,000 for matching funds shall be available for 
the National Forest Foundation.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service in this Act shall 
be used to begin preparation of timber sales in fiscal year 1994 using 
the scaling method: Provided That this limitation shall not apply to 
timber salvage sales: Provided further, That thinning sales may be 
prepared using the scaling method if determined by the Regional Forester 
to be the most effective means of achieving a stated environmental 
objective: Provided further, That this limitation shall not apply to 
sales prepared pursuant to existing timber contracts: Provided further, 
That any timber sales prepared during fiscal year 1994 which involve the 
use of the scaling method must be scaled by the Forest Service, or under 
contracts issued by the Forest Service and paid for using deposits by 
the timber purchaser.
    Total outlays by the Forest Service pursuant to the cooperative work 
trust funds accounts (12-8028-0-7-302) shall not exceed $279,668,000 in 
fiscal year 1994.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Agriculture should 
issue rules at the earliest practicable date on the issue of below-cost 
timber sales.
    The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Forest Service, 
shall reimburse the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service 
for administrative costs incurred under the Stewardship Incentive 
Program for the actual cost of services provided by the Agricultural 
Stabilization and Conservation Service, except that the actual costs 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the total annual appropriation for the 
program.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY


                           clean coal technology

    The first paragraph under this head in Public Law 101-512, as 
amended, is further amended by striking the phrase ``$150,000,000 on 
October 1, 1993, and $100,000,000 on October 1, 1994'' and inserting 
``$100,000,000 on October 1, 1993, $100,000,000 on October 1, 1994, and 
$50,000,000 on October 1, 1995'' and by striking the phrase 
``$250,000,000 on October 1, 1993, and $250,000,000 on October 1, 1994'' 
and inserting ``$125,000,000 on October 1, 1993, $275,000,000 on October 
1, 1994, and $100,000,000 on October 1, 1995''.

                 fossil energy research and development

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, $430,674,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no part of the sum herein made available shall be used for the 
field testing of nuclear explosives in the recovery of oil and gas.

                      alternative fuels production


                       (including transfer of funds)

    Monies received as investment income on the principal amount in the 
Great Plains Project Trust at the Norwest Bank of North Dakota, in such 
sums as are earned as of October 1, 1993, shall be deposited in this 
account and immediately transferred to the General Fund of the Treasury. 
Monies received as revenue sharing from the operation of the Great 
Plains Gasification Plant shall be immediately transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For necessary expenses in carrying out naval petroleum and oil shale 
reserve activities, $214,772,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) shall not 
apply in fiscal year 1994.

                           energy conservation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $690,375,000, to remain available until expended, including, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the excess amount for fiscal 
year 1994 determined under the provisions of section 3003(d) of Public 
Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided, That $254,025,000 shall be for 
use in energy conservation programs as defined in section 3008(3) of 
Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507) and shall not be available until 
excess amounts are determined under the provisions of section 3003(d) of 
Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4502): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509 such sums shall 
be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: $206,800,000 for the 
weatherization assistance program, $18,310,000 for the State energy 
conservation program, and $28,915,000 for the institutional conservation 
program: Provided further, That $3,000,000 made available in the third 
proviso under this head in Public Law 102-154 (105 Stat. 1022-1023) 
shall be available without restriction for use in the weatherization 
assistance program: Provided further, That $19,366,000 of the amount 
provided under this heading shall be available for continuing research 
and development efforts begun under title II of the Interior and Related 
Agencies portion of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint Resolution 
making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1986, and 
for other purposes'', approved December 19, 1985 (Public Law 99-190), 
and implementation of steel and aluminum research authorized by Public 
Law 100-680.

                           economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the 
Economic Regulatory Administration and the Office of Hearings and 
Appeals, $12,994,000, to remain available until expended.


                          emergency preparedness

    For necessary expenses in carrying out emergency preparedness 
activities, $8,901,000, to remain available until expended.


                        strategic petroleum reserve

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant to 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.), $206,810,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations herein made shall not be available for 
leasing of facilities for the storage of crude oil for the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve unless the quantity of oil stored in or deliverable to 
Government-owned storage facilities by virtue of contractual obligations 
is equal to 700,000,000 barrels: Provided further, That the requirements 
of 42 U.S.C. 6240(g) shall not apply in fiscal year 1994.


                           spr petroleum account

    Notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 6240(d) the United States share of crude 
oil in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 (Elk Hills) may be sold or 
otherwise disposed of to other than the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: 
Provided, That outlays in fiscal year 1994 resulting from the use of 
funds in this account shall not exceed $75,580,000: Provided further, 
That no outlays resulting from appropriations made in fiscal year 1993 
for acquisition, transporting, and drawing down oil to be stored in the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve for national defense purposes shall be 
counted against any outlay ceiling established for the SPR petroleum 
account.


                     energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $86,553,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made to 
other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for which 
the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, private, or 
foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received by or for the 
account of the Department of Energy or otherwise generated by sale of 
products in connection with projects of the Department appropriated 
under this Act may be retained by the Secretary of Energy, to be 
available until expended, and used only for plant construction, 
operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities as provided in 
appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: Provided further, That 
the remainder of revenues after the making of such payments shall be 
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, 
That any contract, agreement, or provision thereof entered into by the 
Secretary pursuant to this authority shall not be executed prior to the 
expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which either 
House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of more than 
three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate of a full 
comprehensive report on such project, including the facts and 
circumstances relied upon in support of the proposed project.
    The Secretary of Energy may transfer to the Emergency Preparedness 
appropriation such funds as are necessary to meet any unforeseen 
emergency needs from any funds available to the Department of Energy 
from this Act.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.
    The thirty-day waiting period required under this head in Public Law 
101-512, Department of Energy Administrative Provisions, relating to a 
contract, agreement, or arrangement with a profit-making or non-profit 
entity to conduct activities at the Department of Energy's research 
facilities at Bartlesville, Oklahoma, is hereby waived.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                          Indian Health Service


                          indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles III and XXVII and section 208 of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$1,645,877,000, together with payments received during the fiscal year 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 300aaa-2 for services furnished by the Indian 
Health Service: Provided, That funds made available to tribes and tribal 
organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any other 
agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450), shall 
be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract award and 
thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal organization 
without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That $12,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended, for the Indian Catastrophic Health 
Emergency Fund: Provided further, That $337,848,000 for contract medical 
care shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 1995: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, not less than $11,526,000 
shall be used to carry out the loan repayment program under section 108 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended: Provided further, 
That funds provided in this Act may be used for one-year contracts and 
grants which are to be performed in two fiscal years, so long as the 
total obligation is recorded in the year for which the funds are 
appropriated: Provided further, That the amounts collected by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of title IV 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be available for two 
fiscal years after the fiscal year in which they were collected, for the 
purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable conditions and 
requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act 
(exclusive of planning, design, or construction of new facilities): 
Provided further, That of the funds provided, $7,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended, for the Indian Self-Determination Fund, which 
shall be available for the transitional costs of initial or expanded 
tribal contracts, grants or cooperative agreements with the Indian 
Health Service under the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination 
Act: Provided further, That funding contained herein, and in any earlier 
appropriations Acts for scholarship programs under the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided further, That amounts 
received by tribes and tribal organizations under title IV of the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act, as amended, shall be reported and accounted 
for and available to the receiving tribes and tribal organizations until 
expended.


                         indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment of 
health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination Act 
and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses necessary 
to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian Self-
Determination Act, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles 
III and XXVII and section 208 of the Public Health Service Act with 
respect to environmental health and facilities support activities of the 
Indian Health Service, $296,982,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for the planning, design, construction or renovation of 
health facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be 
used to purchase land for sites to construct, improve, or enlarge health 
or related facilities: Provided further, That of the funds provided 
herein, $300,000 is available to initiate planning and design for the 
replacement facility at Winnebago, Nebraska upon approval of a program 
justification document by the Assistant Secretary for Health.


             administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); and for expenses of attendance 
at meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for 
which the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved 
conduct, supervision, or management of those functions or activities: 
Provided, That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health 
Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care at 
all tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject 
to charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-53) shall be credited 
to the account of the facility providing the service and shall be 
available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service 
shall be administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian Sanitation 
Facilities Act) and Public Law 93-638, as amended: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service in this Act, except 
those used for administrative and program direction purposes, shall not 
be subject to limitations directed at curtailing Federal travel and 
transportation: Provided further, That the Indian Health Service shall 
neither bill nor charge those Indians who may have the economic means to 
pay unless and until such time as Congress has agreed upon a specific 
policy to do so and has directed the Indian Health Service to implement 
such a policy: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds previously or herein made available to a tribe 
or tribal organization through a contract, grant or agreement authorized 
by Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and 
reobligated to a self-governance funding agreement under Title III of 
the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 and 
thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal organization 
without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be used to 
implement the final rule published in the Federal Register on September 
16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human Services, relating to 
eligibility for the health care services of the Indian Health Service 
until the Indian Health Service has submitted a budget request 
reflecting the increased costs associated with the proposed final rule, 
and such request has been included in an appropriations Act and enacted 
into law: Provided further, That funds made available in this Act are to 
be apportioned to the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, 
and accounted for in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: 
Provided further, That the appropriation structure for the Indian Health 
Service may not be altered without the advance approval of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

              Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

                            indian education

    For necessary expenses to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, the Indian Education Act of 1988, $83,500,000, of which 
$60,304,000 shall be for subpart 1, $19,161,000 shall be for subparts 2 
and 3, and $200,000 shall be for collection and analyses of data on 
Indian education: Provided, That $1,735,000 available pursuant to 
section 5323 of the Act shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1995.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

               Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $26,936,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible individuals 
and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands 
residents, those in significantly substandard housing, and all others 
certified as eligible and not included in the preceding categories: 
Provided further, That none of the funds contained in this or any other 
Act may be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to 
evict any single Navajo or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, 
was physically domiciled on the lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe 
unless a new or replacement home is provided for such household: 
Provided further, That no relocatee will be provided with more than one 
new or replacement home: Provided further, That the Office shall 
relocate any certified eligible relocatees who have selected and 
received an approved homesite on the Navajo reservation or selected a 
replacement residence off the Navajo reservation or on the land acquired 
pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                               Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by Public Law 99-498, as 
amended (20 U.S.C. 56, Part A), $12,563,000, of which not to exceed 
$350,000 for Federal matching contributions, to remain available until 
expended, shall be paid to the Institute endowment fund: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the annual budget proposal 
and justification for the Institute shall be submitted to the Congress 
concurrently with the submission of the President's Budget to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the Institute shall act as its own 
certifying officer.

                         Smithsonian Institution

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as authorized 
by law, including research in the fields of art, science, and history; 
development, preservation, and documentation of the National 
Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed thirty years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to 5 replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, rental, 
repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees; $302,349,000, of which 
not to exceed $24,552,000 for the instrumentation program, collections 
acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, exhibition 
reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, and the 
repatriation of skeletal remains program shall remain available until 
expended and, including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations.


          construction and improvements, national zoological park

    For necessary expenses of planning, construction, remodeling, and 
equipping of buildings and facilities at the National Zoological Park, 
by contract or otherwise, $5,400,000, to remain available until 
expended.


                    repair and restoration of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair and restoration of buildings owned 
or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract or otherwise, as 
authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), 
including not to exceed $10,000 for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $24,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, and 
exterior repair or restoration of buildings of the Smithsonian 
Institution may be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on 
the basis of contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $10,400,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                         National Gallery of Art


                           salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services for 
protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, alteration, 
improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and grounds; and 
purchase of services for restoration and repair of works of art for the 
National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without advertising, with 
individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or prices and under 
such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem proper, $51,908,000, 
of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the special exhibition program 
shall remain available until expended.


              repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized $2,831,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be negotiated 
with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of contractor 
qualifications as well as price.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the Woodrow 
Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of passenger 
vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,352,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                     National Endowment for the Arts


                         grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $140,836,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to groups and 
individuals pursuant to section 5(c) of the Act, and for administering 
the functions of the Act.


                              matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$29,392,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995, to the 
National Endowment for the Arts, of which $12,858,000 shall be available 
for purposes of section 5(l): Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of section 10(a)(2), subsections 11(a)(2)(A) and 
11(a)(3)(A) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                  National Endowment for the Humanities


                         grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $151,300,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, of which $5,000,000 for the 
Office of Preservation shall remain available until September 30, 1995.


                              matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$26,191,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995, of which 
$14,228,000 shall be available to the National Endowment for the 
Humanities for the purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as 
may be equal to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of 
money, and other property accepted by the Chairman or by grantees of the 
Endowment under the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 
11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal years for which 
equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                      Institute of Museum Services


                         grants and administration

    For carrying out title II of the Arts, Humanities, and Cultural 
Affairs Act of 1976, as amended, $28,777,000.


                         administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                         Commission of Fine Arts


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $805,000.


                national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (99 Stat. 
1261; 20 U.S.C. 956(a)), as amended, $7,500,000.

                Advisory Council on Historic Preservation


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing an Advisory 
Council on Historic Preservation, Public Law 89-665, as amended, 
$2,959,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall be available for 
the compensation of Executive Level V or higher positions.

                  National Capital Planning Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,868,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members will be compensated at a rate equivalent to the rate for 
Executive Schedule Level IV.

              Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial 
Commission, established by the Act of August 11, 1955 (69 Stat. 694), as 
amended by Public Law 92-332 (86 Stat. 401), $49,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995: Provided, That funds provided under 
this head in Public Law 102-381 shall remain available until expended.

               Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by section 17(a) of Public Law 
92-578, as amended, $2,738,000 for operating and administrative expenses 
of the Corporation.


                            public development

    For public development activities and projects in accordance with 
the development plan as authorized by section 17(b) of Public Law 92-
578, as amended, $4,289,000, to remain available until expended.


                   land acquisition and development fund

    The Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation is authorized to 
borrow from the Treasury of the United States $7,193,000, pursuant to 
the terms and conditions in paragraph 10, section 6, of Public Law 92-
576, as amended.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council


                        holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388, as amended, $21,679,000.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition 
to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is not 
complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of such 
department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
evaluate, consider, process, or award oil, gas, or geothermal leases on 
Federal lands in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, State of 
Washington, within the hydrographic boundaries of the Cedar River 
municipal watershed upstream of river mile 21.6, the Green River 
municipal watershed upstream of river mile 61.0, the North Fork of the 
Tolt River proposed municipal watershed upstream of river mile 11.7, and 
the South Fork Tolt River municipal watershed upstream of river mile 
8.4.
    Sec. 307. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless notice of 
such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the Committees 
on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.
    Sec. 308. Section 314 of Public Law 101-512 (104 Stat. 1959-1960) is 
amended by striking the words ``cooperative agreement'' and inserting in 
lieu thereof: ``any other agreement or compact''.
    Sec. 309. Section 1405, subsection (a) of title 36, United States 
Code, is amended by striking all of the first sentence through the words 
``confirmation of the Council and who'' and inserting in lieu thereof: 
``There shall be an Executive Director of the Holocaust Memorial Museum 
who shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Council, subject to 
confirmation of the Council, who may be paid with nonappropriated funds, 
and who, if paid with appropriated funds,''.
    Sec. 310. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities 
    receiving the assistance should, in expending the assistance, 
    purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 311. The Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management may offer 
for sale salvageable timber in the Pacific Northwest in fiscal year 
1994: Provided, That for public lands known to contain the Northern 
spotted owl, such salvage sales may be offered as long as the offering 
of such sale will not render the area unsuitable as habitat for the 
Northern spotted owl: Provided further, That timber salvage activity in 
spotted owl habitat is to be done in full compliance with all existing 
environmental and forest management laws.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant sequoia 
(sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest System 
or Bureau of Land Management lands until an environmental assessment has 
been completed and the giant sequoia management implementation plan is 
approved. In any event, timber harvest within the identified groves will 
be done only to enhance and perpetuate giant sequoia. There will be no 
harvesting of giant sequoia specimen trees. Removal of hazard, insect, 
disease and fire killed giant sequoia other than specimen trees is 
permitted.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any increase in government housing rental rates in excess of 
10 per centum more than the rental rates which were in effect on 
September 1, 1993, for such housing.
    Sec. 314. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
implement the Bureau of Land Management/United States Forest Service 
comprehensive strategy for Pacific salmon and steelhead habitat 
(PACFISH) or to impose interim guidelines for such strategy in the 
Tongass National Forest: Provided, That nothing in this section shall be 
construed to enlarge or diminish minimum timber no harvest buffer zones 
required by the Tongass Timber Reform Act or to enlarge or diminish 
site-specific management prescriptions which increase no harvest fish 
stream buffer zones applied under the Tongass Land Management Plan and 
existing standards and guidelines of the Tongass National Forest.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.