[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3116 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3116
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal 
year ending

               September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, for 
military functions administered by the Department of Defense, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on 
active duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $21,296,177,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Navy on 
active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere), 
midshipmen, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to section 
156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 
229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $18,330,950,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps 
on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere); 
and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund; $5,772,317,000.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on 
active duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $15,823,030,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 265, 3021, and 3038 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or 
while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and for 
members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and expenses authorized 
by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code, as authorized by law; 
and for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$2,149,147,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 265 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States Code, in connection 
with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing 
drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps, and expenses authorized by section 2131 of title 10, 
United States Code, as authorized by law; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $1,555,800,000.

                     Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 265 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving 
on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the Marine 
Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses authorized by section 2131 of 
title 10, United States Code, as authorized by law; and for payments to 
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $350,890,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 265, 8021, and 8038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
678(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and for members of the Air Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and 
expenses authorized by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code, as 
authorized by law; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
Military Retirement Fund; $781,958,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under section 265, 3021, or 3496 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 672(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while performing 
drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by 
section 2131 of title 10, United States Code, as authorized by law; and 
for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$3,340,283,000.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
section 265, 8021, or 8496 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 672(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while performing 
drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by 
section 2131 of title 10, United States Code, as authorized by law; and 
for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$1,223,492,000.

                                TITLE II

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law; and not to 
exceed $14,437,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Army, and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity 
for confidential military purposes; $15,802,057,000 and, in addition, 
$150,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National Defense 
Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, That $450,000 shall be made 
available only for the 1994 Memorial Day Celebration and $450,000 shall 
be made available only for the 1994 Capitol Fourth Project: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, not less than 
$6,500,000 shall be made available only for the Army Environmental 
Policy Institute, of which $2,000,000 shall be made available only for a 
study on the effects of depleted uranium on the environment: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, $500,000 
shall be available only for a study of the effects of uranium milling, 
including exposure to radon chemicals and uranium, on the health of 
those individuals employed in uranium mills in the southwestern United 
States during the period beginning on January 1, 1947 and ending on 
December 31, 1971.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law; and not to exceed $4,667,000 can be used for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be made on 
his certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; 
$19,860,309,000 and, in addition, $150,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, 
That $350,000 shall be available only to connect residences located in 
the vicinity of the Naval Air Warfare Center, Warminster, to the 
Warminster municipal water supply system: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $56,442,500 shall 
be made available only for the Pacific Missile Range Facility, Hawaii: 
Provided further, That for costs associated with the termination of the 
planned MHC facility in Astoria, Oregon, $2,000,000 shall be made 
available only to the State of Oregon within 60 days after enactment of 
this Act for the Marine and Environment Station at South Tongue Point, 
Oregon, and of this amount, $500,000 shall be made available for program 
development.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law; 
$1,857,699,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law; and 
not to exceed $8,787,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his certificate of 
necessity for confidential military purposes; $19,093,805,000 and, in 
addition, $200,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National 
Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, That $15,500,000 shall be 
used only to operate, maintain and enhance the Tactical Interim CAMS and 
REMIS Reporting System (TICARRS-92): Provided further, That TICARRS-92 
be reestablished, with direct maintenance data input, as the supporting 
system for at least one wing each of F-15, F-16, and F-117A aircraft by 
no later than May 31, 1994: Provided further, That TICARRS-92 be 
reestablished, with direct maintenance data input, as the supporting 
system for all F-15, F-16, and F-117A aircraft by no later than August 
31, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this Act shall be used to operate, 
maintain or otherwise support an automated maintenance management system 
for F-15, F-16, and F-117A aircraft other than TICARRS-92 after August 
31, 1994: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not more than $9,538,000 shall be available only for a grant to 
the Women in Military Service For America Memorial Foundation, Inc., to 
be used solely to perform the repair, restoration, and preservation of 
the main gate structures, center plaza, and Homicycle of the Arlington 
National Cemetery, and these funds shall be made available solely for 
project costs and none of the funds are for remuneration of any entity 
or individual associated with fund raising for the project: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 
shall be made available only for continued environmental restoration of 
the former Olmsted Air Force Base, Pennsylvania.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law; 
$9,456,801,000, of which not to exceed $25,000,000 may be available for 
the CINC initiative fund account; and of which not to exceed $19,422,000 
can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended 
on the approval or authority of the Secretary of Defense, and payments 
may be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes: Provided, That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, 
$10,000,000 shall be made available for activities to support the 
clearing of landmines for humanitarian purposes: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading, $48,000,000 shall be made 
available only for aiding school districts in accordance with authority 
granted under Public Law 81-874: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made 
available only for the Legacy Resource Management Program, of which not 
less than $200,000 shall be made available for the Legacy Resource 
Management Program fellowships: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
the provisions of the Federal Cooperative Grant and Agreement Act of 
1977 (31 U.S.C. 6303-6308), the Department of Defense may hereafter 
negotiate and enter into cooperative agreements and grants with public 
and private agencies, organizations, institutions, individuals or other 
entities to implement the purposes of the Legacy Resource Management 
Program: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available only for the repair and 
maintenance of federally owned education facilities located on military 
installations: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, $1,000,000 shall be made available only for use by the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense for the exploitation of captured 
Iraqi Government documents relating to the Kurds and other minorities of 
northern Iraq: Provided further, That the funds in the preceding proviso 
may be made available for personal service contracts of Arabic-language 
linguists and may be exempt from competitive bidding requirements: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$1,000,000 shall be made available only for the Defense Mapping Agency 
to evaluate and procure available imagery photographs and materials from 
successor states of the former Soviet Union: Provided further, That the 
Director of the Defense Mapping Agency shall report to the Congressional 
Defense Committees the availability of such imagery materials, 
priorities for acquisition and the process for the dissemination of such 
materials to Federal agencies, State and local authorities, academic 
institutions and the private sector not later than March 15, 1994.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the 
dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications; $1,075,140,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the 
dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and 
communications; $763,137,000: Provided, That operational control of the 
Naval Reserve Personnel Center, including its functions and 
responsibilities, shall be under the command and control of the 
Commander, Naval Reserve Command.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $83,130,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $1,335,354,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized by 
law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft); $2,230,419,000: Provided, 
That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, $10,000,000 shall be 
made available only for a National Guard Outreach Program in the Los 
Angeles School District: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be made available only 
for the MEDRETES program.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For operation and maintenance of the Air National Guard, including 
medical and hospital treatment and related expenses in non-Federal 
hospitals; maintenance, operation, repair, and other necessary expenses 
of facilities for the training and administration of the Air National 
Guard, including repair of facilities, maintenance, operation, and 
modification of aircraft; transportation of things; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; supplies, materials, and equipment, as authorized by law 
for the Air National Guard; and expenses incident to the maintenance and 
use of supplies, materials, and equipment, including such as may be 
furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department of 
Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same basis as 
authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on active Federal 
duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting units in 
compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when specifically 
authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau; $2,632,298,000: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $10,000,000 
shall be made available only for the operation of Air National Guard C-
130 operational support aircraft of the 159th Air National Guard Fighter 
Group, the 169th Air National Guard Fighter Group, and the 118th Airlift 
Wing.

        National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice, Army

    For the necessary expenses and personnel services (other than pay 
and non-travel-related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the national 
matches) in accordance with law, for operation and maintenance of rifle 
ranges; the instruction of citizens in marksmanship; the promotion of 
rifle practice; the conduct of the national matches; the sale of 
ammunition under the authority of title 10, United States Code, sections 
4308 and 4311; the travel of rifle teams, military personnel, and 
individuals attending regional, national, and international 
competitions; and the payment to competitors at national matches under 
section 4312 of title 10, United States Code, of subsistence and travel 
allowances under section 4313 of title 10, United States Code; not to 
exceed $2,483,000.

                   Court of Military Appeals, Defense

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Military Appeals; $5,855,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 can be used 
for official representation purposes.

                   Environmental Restoration, Defense


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of Defense; $1,962,300,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes 
(including programs and operations at sites formerly used by the 
Department of Defense), transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of Defense as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations of funds to which transferred: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided under this heading, not less than 
$200,000,000 shall be available only for the expedited cleanup of 
environmentally contaminated sites and only in accordance with a 
comprehensive plan submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense.

                             Summer Olympics

    For logistical support and personnel services (other than pay and 
nontravel related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the 1996 Games 
of the XXVI Olympiad to be held in Atlanta, Georgia) provided by any 
component of the Department of Defense to the 1996 Games of the XXVI 
Olympiad; $2,000,000.

                           World Cup USA 1994

    For logistical support and personnel services (other than pay and 
nontravel related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the World Cup 
USA 1994) provided by any component of the Department of Defense to the 
World Cup USA 1994; $6,000,000.

                         Humanitarian Assistance

    For transportation for humanitarian relief for the people of 
Afghanistan, the Kurdish population and other minorities of northern 
Iraq, and the people of sub-Saharan Africa, acquisition and shipment of 
transportation assets to assist in the distribution of such relief, and 
for transportation and distribution of humanitarian relief supplies, and 
excess non-lethal property; $48,000,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $30,000,000 shall be made available 
only for Kurdish relief activities, of which $15,000,000 shall be made 
available for a 1993-1994 winterization relief program.

                  Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction

    For assistance to the republics of the former Soviet Union, 
including assistance provided by contract or by grants, for facilitating 
the elimination and the safe and secure transportation and storage of 
nuclear, chemical and other weapons; for providing incentives for 
demilitarization; for establishing programs to prevent the proliferation 
of weapons, weapons components, and weapons-related technology and 
expertise; for expansion of military-to-military contacts; for 
supporting the conversion of military technologies and capabilities into 
civilian activities; and for retraining military personnel of the former 
Soviet Union; $400,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $10,000,000 
shall be made available only for the continuing study, assessment, and 
identification of nuclear waste disposal by the former Soviet Union in 
the Arctic region: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in section 9110(a) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993, shall continue to be in effect during fiscal year 1994: 
Provided further, That any transfer made under the foregoing proviso in 
this paragraph shall be subject to the limitations and the reporting 
requirements stipulated in section 8006 of this Act: Provided further, 
That the Director of Central Intelligence shall report to the President 
and the Congressional defense, foreign affairs, and intelligence 
committees on the current status of intercontinental ballistic missile 
development and production in states eligible for assistance under this 
heading: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading may be expended or transferred to an otherwise eligible 
recipient state if the President concludes, and notifies the 
Congressional defense, foreign affairs, and intelligence committees in a 
written report, that the potential recipient is currently engaged in the 
production of a new road mobile or fixed-site land based 
intercontinental ballistic missile armed with multiple nuclear re-entry 
vehicles.

                                TITLE III

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interest therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $1,320,886,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                        Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $1,094,309,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes; $888,817,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996.

                     Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training 
devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition 
facilities authorized by section 2854, title 10, United States Code, and 
the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands 
and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and 
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes; $735,445,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996.

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and nontracked combat vehicles; 
the purchase of not to exceed 16 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only; communications and electronic equipment; other support 
equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $2,892,766,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public and 
private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such lands 
and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
$5,704,220,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1996.

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, other ordnance and 
ammunition, and related support equipment including spare parts, and 
accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, including 
the land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may 
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government 
and contractor-owned equipment layaway; $2,986,720,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1996: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph, $1,028,596,000 shall not be 
obligated or expended for procurement or advance procurement of Trident 
II missiles unless the President has certified to Congress that the 
other signatories to the START treaty have rejected a United States 
proposal to the Joint Compliance and Inspection Commission that 
``detubing'' be accepted as an option for eliminating SLBM launchers 
under START II or until the President has certified to Congress that 
such course of action would not be in the national interest.

                    Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and armament 
thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and installation 
thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long 
leadtime components and designs for vessels to be constructed or 
converted in the future; and expansion of public and private plants, 
including land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title, as follows:
        Refueling overhauls, $31,127,000;
        DDG-51 destroyer program, $2,642,772,000;
        LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $893,848,000, and in 
    addition, $50,000,000 for advance procurement on the LHD-7 
    amphibious assault ship;
        Mine warfare command and control ship, $124,175,000;
        Oceanographic ship program, $110,049,000;
        For craft, outfitting, post delivery, and first destination 
    transportation, $343,104,000;
In all: $4,195,075,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1998: Provided, That additional obligations may be 
incurred after September 30, 1998, for engineering services, tests, 
evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the 
final stage of ship construction: Provided further, That none of the 
funds herein provided for the construction or conversion of any naval 
vessel to be constructed in shipyards in the United States shall be 
expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major components 
of such vessel: Provided further, That none of the funds herein provided 
shall be used for the construction of any naval vessel in foreign 
shipyards.

                         Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except ordnance 
for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for conversion); the 
purchase of not to exceed 609 passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only; expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government 
and contractor-owned equipment layaway; $2,994,231,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1996: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not less than $20,000,000 
shall be obligated and expended only for automatic data processing 
investment equipment and peripheral equipment and related software for 
the Defense Accounting Office and Naval Computer and Telecommunications 
Station, New Orleans, the Enlisted Personnel Management Center, the 
Naval Reserve Personnel Center, and the Naval Reserve Force Information 
Systems Office: Provided further, That the Department of Defense shall 
establish a central management and control site for local area networks 
at the Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station, New Orleans: 
Provided further, That the operations and functions of the Reserve 
Financial Management System and other Reserve specific automation 
systems shall remain colocated with the Commander, Naval Reserve Force.

                        Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, ammunition, military equipment, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
vehicles for the Marine Corps, including the purchase of not to exceed 
96 passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of 
public and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; $441,216,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1996.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things; $6,662,934,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1996.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and 
accessories therefor, ground handling equipment, and training devices; 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes including rents and transportation of things; $3,899,170,000, 
to remain available for obligation until September 30, 1996.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of not to exceed 2 
vehicles required for physical security of personnel, notwithstanding 
price limitations applicable to passenger vehicles but not to exceed 
$180,000 per vehicle; the purchase of not to exceed 710 passenger motor 
vehicles of which 695 shall be for replacement only; and expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, 
for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; $7,637,250,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                  National Guard and Reserve Equipment

    For procurement of aircraft, missiles, tracked combat vehicles, 
ammunition, other weapons, and other procurement for the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces; $1,200,000,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1996.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments) necessary for procurement, 
production, and modification of equipment, supplies, materials, and 
spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of not to 
exceed 1 vehicle required for physical security of personnel, 
notwithstanding price limitations applicable to passenger vehicles but 
not to exceed $180,000 per vehicle; and the purchase of not to exceed 
438 passenger motor vehicles, of which 420 shall be for replacement 
only; expansion of public and private plants, equipment, and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway; $1,810,039,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1996.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to sections 
108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended 
(50 U.S.C. App. 2061); $200,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of these funds shall be obligated for any project 
unless a Presidential determination has been made in accordance with the 
Defense Production Act: Provided further, That the Department of Defense 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate sixty days prior to the release of funds 
for any project not previously approved by Congress.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as authorized by law; 
$5,427,546,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That $2,000,000 shall be made available only for the 
Center for Prostate Disease Research at the Walter Reed Army Institute 
of Research: Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be made available 
only for the Center of Excellence in Breast Cancer Research and Training 
at the National Naval Medical Center, in Bethesda, Maryland: Provided 
further, That not less than $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be made available only to a joint research partnership 
involving an educational institution, not now engaged in a large volume 
of basic research, and a biomedical research institute, including a 
working arrangement with Canadian and German scientists, for the 
development and testing of a new insulin derivative for the treatment of 
diabetes and hypoglycemia in the dependents of active duty military 
members: Provided further, That $850,000 of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be available for a lyme disease program.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as authorized by law; 
$8,365,786,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That for continued research and development programs at 
the National Center for Physical Acoustics, centering on ocean acoustics 
as it applies to advanced antisubmarine warfare acoustics issues with 
focus on ocean bottom acoustics, seismic coupling, sea-surface and 
bottom scattering, oceanic ambient noise, underwater sound propagation, 
bubble related ambient noise, acoustically active surfaces, machinery 
noise, propagation physics, solid state acoustics, electrorheological 
fluids, transducer development, ultrasonic sensors, and other such 
projects as may be agreed upon, $1,000,000 shall be made available, as a 
grant, to the Mississippi Resource Development Corporation, of which not 
to exceed $250,000 of such sum may be used to provide such special 
equipment as may be required for particular projects: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph may be obligated 
or expended to develop or purchase equipment for an Aegis destroyer 
variant (commonly known as ``Flight IIA'') whose initial operating 
capability is budgeted to be achieved prior to the initial operating 
capability of the Ship Self-Defense program, nor to develop sensor, 
processor, or display capabilities which duplicate in any way those 
being developed in the Ship Self-Defense program: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated in this paragraph for Aegis Combat System Engineering 
tactical display simplification may be obligated only to develop 
equipment on an interim basis which is planned to be installed in Aegis 
ships prior to the date that the first production unit of the Advanced 
Display System is planned to be accepted by the Government: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph for Aegis Combat 
System Engineering tactical display simplification may not be obligated 
on contracts which include production options for ship installations 
planned beyond the date that the first production unit of the Advanced 
Display System is planned to be accepted by the Government: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph for development of E-
2C aircraft upgrades may not be obligated until the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition submits a plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Armed Services of each House of Congress for 
development and deployment of a fully participating cooperative 
engagement capability on E-2 aircraft to be fielded concurrent with and 
no later than major computer upgrades for the aircraft: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph for development of 
the L-X ship may not be obligated unless the baseline design of the ship 
includes cooperative engagement capability and sufficient own-ship self-
defense capability against advanced sea-skimming antiship cruise 
missiles in the baseline design to achieve an estimated probability of 
survival from attack by such missiles at a level no less than any other 
Navy ship.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as authorized by law; 
$12,314,362,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That not less than $21,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
in this paragraph shall be made available only for the Joint Seismic 
Program and Global Seismic Network administrated by the Incorporated 
Research Institutions for Seismology: Provided further, That not less 
than $40,000,000 of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be 
made available only for the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences 
(NCMS): Provided further, That of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, not less than $15,000,000 of the funds in the Advanced 
Weapons program element shall be made available only to continue the 
establishment and operation of an image information processing center 
supporting the Air Force Maui Space Surveillance Site (MSSS).

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), necessary for basic and applied 
scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced research 
projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary of 
Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment, as authorized by law; 
$8,838,690,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That not less than $97,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
in this paragraph are available only for the Extended Range Interceptor 
(ERINT) missile: Provided further, That not less than $55,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph are available only for the Patriot 
Multimode Missile: Provided further, That not less than $56,424,000 of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph are available only for the 
Arrow Continuation Experiments (ACES): Provided further, That the 
Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO) shall continue its current 
strategy of flight testing, ground testing, simulations, and other 
Government analyses of the Patriot Multimode Missile and the Extended 
Range Interceptor for selection of the best technology in terms of cost, 
schedule, risk, and performance to meet PAC-3 missile requirements for 
theater missile defense and that the Director, BMDO, will determine when 
there is adequate information to proceed to selection for engineering 
and manufacturing development: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall jointly certify to interested 
Committees of Congress that activities conducted by the Department of 
Defense and the Department of Energy in the areas of research, 
development, demonstration, or commercialization of electric vehicles 
and the related infrastructure; fuel cell research; and natural gas 
research are coordinated: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $43,000,000 shall be made 
available only for the Computer-aided Acquisition and Logistics Support 
(CALS) Shared Resource Center (CSRC) program, which shall be managed 
only by the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) and of that amount, 
not less than $23,000,000 shall be made available only for the continued 
operation of the original CSRC by the current nonprofit institution or 
its successor in interest, as the Department's tri-service CALS 
standards and technologies development, deployment, training, and 
education hub for the CSRC program; the continued operation of the CSRC 
Regional Satellite (CRS); and the establishment and continued operation 
of additional CRSs to be operated by educational or other nonprofit 
institutions: Provided further, That the remaining $20,000,000 shall be 
made available only for the continued operation of the six original 
CRSs: Provided further, That nothing shall prohibit use of the CSRC or 
CRSs by industry, associations, other Department of Defense services and 
agencies, and other government agencies for efforts to be separately 
negotiated and funded: Provided further, That $2,300,000 of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available only for cell 
adhesion molecule research: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph, not less than $5,000,000 of the funds in 
the High Performance Computing Modernization program element shall be 
made available only to upgrade the supercomputing capability and 
capacity of the Maui High Performance Computing Center.

               Developmental Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, of independent activities 
of the Director, Test and Evaluation in the direction and supervision of 
developmental test and evaluation, including performance and joint 
developmental testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in 
connection therewith; $232,457,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1995.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation 
in the direction and supervision of operational test and evaluation, 
including initial operational test and evaluation which is conducted 
prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint operational 
testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
therewith; $12,650,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1995.

                                 TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                    Defense Business Operations Fund

    For the Defense Business Operations Fund; $1,102,295,000: Provided, 
That none of the funds available in the Defense Business Operations Fund 
shall be used for any hardware procurement, new development, or 
expansion of the Defense Business Management System beyond that required 
to support fiduciary, management information and other requirements 
established by law or directive and support existing customers 
consistent with the provisions of the DBOF Improvement Report.

                      National Defense Sealift Fund


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For National Defense Sealift Fund programs, projects, and 
activities, $1,540,800,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That up to $50,000,000 shall be available for transfer to the 
Secretary of Transportation: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided in this paragraph shall be used to award a new contract that 
provides for the acquisition of any of the following major components 
unless such components are manufactured in the United States: auxiliary 
equipment, including pumps, for all shipboard services; propulsion 
system components (that is; engines, reduction gears, and propellers); 
shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard cranes: Provided further, 
That the exercise of an option in a contract awarded through the 
obligation of previously appropriated funds shall not be considered to 
be the award of a new contract: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
the military department responsible for such procurement may waive this 
restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, that adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an 
acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
security purposes.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense, as authorized by law; 
$9,626,072,000, of which $9,352,435,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, of which $273,637,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996, shall be for Procurement: Provided, That the 
Department shall competitively contract during fiscal year 1994 for mail 
service pharmacy for at least two multi-state regions in addition to the 
ongoing solicitations for Florida, South Carolina, Georgia, Delaware, 
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Hawaii, as well as each base closure area 
not supported by an at-risk managed care plan; that such services shall 
be procured independent of any other Department managed care contracts; 
that one multi-state region shall include the State of Kentucky and that 
one multi-state region shall include the State of New Mexico: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated in this Act, such funds as 
necessary shall be used for the continuation of the cooperative program 
model being established at Madigan Medical Center for severely behavior 
disordered students: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $1,410,000 shall be made available 
only for annual incentive pay bonuses for certified nurse anesthetists: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than $3,000,000 shall be made available only for nursing research 
programs.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents and 
munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $389,947,000, of which $291,261,000 shall be 
for Operation and maintenance, $67,986,000, shall be for Procurement to 
remain available until September 30, 1996, and $30,700,000, shall be for 
Research, development, test and evaluation to remain available until 
September 30, 1995.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
Operation and maintenance; for Procurement; and for Research, 
development, test and evaluation; $868,200,000: Provided, That the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph shall be available for obligation for the 
same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in 
this paragraph is in addition to any transfer authority contained 
elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
in this paragraph, not less than $3,200,000 shall be available only for 
the Gulf States Counter-Narcotics Initiative.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended; $137,601,000, of which $136,801,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $400,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval or 
authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on his 
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; and of 
which $800,000, to remain available until September 30, 1996, shall be 
for Procurement.

                                TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  NATIONAL FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

    Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain proper funding level for continuing 
the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System; $182,300,000.

                 National Security Education Trust Fund

    For the purposes of title VIII of Public Law 102-183, $10,000,000 to 
be derived from the National Security Education Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Community Management Staff

    For necessary expenses of the Community Management Staff; 
$151,288,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8002. During the current fiscal year, provisions of law 
prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any person 
not a citizen of the United States shall not apply to personnel of the 
Department of Defense: Provided, That salary increases granted to direct 
and indirect hire foreign national employees of the Department of 
Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in excess of the 
percentage increase authorized by law for civilian employees of the 
Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the provisions of 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate in excess of 
the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host nation to its 
own employees, whichever is higher: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to Department of Defense foreign service national 
employees serving at United States diplomatic missions whose pay is set 
by the Department of State under the Foreign Service Act of 1980: 
Provided further, That the limitations of this provision shall not apply 
to foreign national employees of the Department of Defense in the 
Republic of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004. No more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in this 
Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year 
shall be obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations for support 
of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training of 
the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, or the National Board for the 
Promotion of Rifle Practice, Army.
    Sec. 8005. Section 9005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is amended by striking out ``contained in 
this Act'' and inserting ``or any other funds available to the 
Department of Defense'' in lieu thereof.
    Sec. 8005A. Title IV of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396; 106 Stat. 1890) is amended in the 9th 
proviso under the heading ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
Army'' by striking ``six months'' and inserting ``18 months''.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8006. Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such 
action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the approval 
of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
$2,500,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of Defense or 
funds made available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
military functions (except military construction) between such 
appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged with 
and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, 
as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, That such 
authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, 
based on unforeseen military requirements, than those for which 
originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds 
are requested has been denied by Congress: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall notify the Congress promptly of all transfers 
made pursuant to this authority or any other authority in this Act.


                            (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8007. During the current fiscal year, cash balances in working 
capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant to 
section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in only 
such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be 
made from such funds: Provided, That transfers may be made between such 
funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'' and ``Operation 
and Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as may be 
determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the Office 
of Management and Budget, except that such transfers may not be made 
unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the Congress of the 
proposed transfer. Except in amounts equal to the amounts appropriated 
to working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may be made against 
a working capital fund to procure or increase the value of war reserve 
material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the 
Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8008. Using funds available by this Act or any other Act, the 
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to a determination under section 
2690 of title 10, United States Code, may implement cost-effective 
agreements for required heating facility modernization in the 
Kaiserslautern Military Community in the Federal Republic of Germany: 
Provided, That in the City of Kaiserslautern such agreements will 
include the use of United States anthracite as the base load energy for 
municipal district heat to the United States Defense installations: 
Provided further, That at Landstuhl Army Regional Medical Center and 
Ramstein Air Base, furnished heat may be obtained from private, regional 
or municipal services, if provisions are included for the consideration 
of United States coal as an energy source.
    Sec. 8009. Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used to 
initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 calendar 
days in session in advance to the Committees on Appropriations and Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8010. None of the funds contained in this Act available for the 
Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services shall be 
available for payments to physicians and other authorized individual 
health care providers in excess of the amounts allowed in fiscal year 
1993 for similar services, except that: (a) for services for which the 
Secretary of Defense determines an increase is justified by economic 
circumstances, the allowable amounts may be increased in accordance with 
appropriate economic index data similar to that used pursuant to title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act; and (b) for services the Secretary 
determines are overpriced based on allowable payments under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act, the allowable amounts shall be reduced by 
not more than 15 percent (except that the reduction may be waived if the 
Secretary determines that it would impair adequate access to health care 
services for beneficiaries). The Secretary shall solicit public comment 
prior to promulgating regulations to implement this section. Such 
regulations shall include a limitation, similar to that used under title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act, on the extent to which a provider may 
bill a beneficiary an actual charge in excess of the allowable amount.
    Sec. 8011. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be available 
to initiate (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic order 
quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of the 
contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in excess of 
$20,000,000, or (2) a contract for advance procurement leading to a 
multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in 
excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the Committees on 
Appropriations and Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
Representatives have been notified at least thirty days in advance of 
the proposed contract award: Provided, That no part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be available to initiate a multiyear 
contract for which the economic order quantity advance procurement is 
not funded at least to the limits of the Government's liability: 
Provided further, That no part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement contracts for 
any systems or component thereof if the value of the multiyear contract 
would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically provided in this Act: 
Provided further, That no multiyear procurement contract can be 
terminated without 10-day prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Armed Services of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate: Provided further, That the execution of multiyear authority 
shall require the use of a present value analysis to determine lowest 
cost compared to an annual procurement.
    Sec. 8012. Within the funds appropriated for the operation and 
maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant 
to section 401 of title 10, United States Code, for humanitarian and 
civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code. 
Such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic assistance 
costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to authority 
granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code, 
and these obligations shall be reported to Congress on September 30 of 
each year: Provided, That funds available for operation and maintenance 
shall be available for providing humanitarian and similar assistance by 
using Civic Action Teams in the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands 
and freely associated states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of 
Free Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239: Provided further, 
That upon a determination by the Secretary of the Army that such action 
is beneficial for graduate medical education programs conducted at Army 
medical facilities located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may 
authorize the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for 
civilian patients from American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8013. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, governments 
of Indian tribes shall be treated as State and local governments for the 
purposes of disposition of real property recommended for closure in the 
report of the Defense Secretary's Commission on Base Realignments and 
Closures, December 1988, the report to the President from the Defense 
Base Closure and Realignment Commission, July 1991, and Public Law 100-
526.
    Sec. 8014. (a) The provisions of section 115(a)(4) of title 10, 
United States Code, shall not apply with respect to fiscal year 1994 or 
with respect to the appropriation of funds for that year.
    (b) During fiscal year 1994, the civilian personnel of the 
Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis of any end-
strength, and the management of such personnel during that fiscal year 
shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known as an end-
strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed on the 
last day of such fiscal year.
    (c) The fiscal year 1995 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1995 Department of Defense budget request 
shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) 
and (b) of this provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 
1995.
    Sec. 8014A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available by this Act shall be used by the Department of 
Defense to exceed, outside the fifty United States, its territories, and 
the District of Columbia, 131,250 civilian workyears: Provided, That 
workyears shall be applied as defined in the Federal Personnel Manual: 
Provided further, That workyears expended in dependent student hiring 
programs for disadvantaged youths shall not be included in this workyear 
limitation.
    Sec. 8015. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional 
action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8016. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
obligated for the pay of any individual who is initially employed after 
the date of enactment of this Act as a technician in the administration 
and training of the Army Reserve and the maintenance and repair of 
supplies issued to the Army Reserve unless such individual is also a 
military member of the Army Reserve troop program unit that he or she is 
employed to support. Those technicians employed by the Army Reserve in 
areas other than Army Reserve troop program units need only be members 
of the Selected Reserve.
    Sec. 8017. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be used for the floating storage of petroleum or petroleum products 
except in vessels of or belonging to the United States.
    Sec. 8018. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretaries of the Army and Air Force may authorize the retention in an 
active status until age sixty of any officer who would otherwise be 
removed from an active status and who is employed as a National Guard or 
Reserve technician in a position in which active status in a reserve 
component of the Army or Air Force is required as a condition of that 
employment.
    Sec. 8019. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds from 
the investment of the Fisher House Investment Trust Fund will be used to 
support the operation and maintenance of Fisher Houses associated with 
Army medical treatment facilities.
    Sec. 8020. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used to make contributions to the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund pursuant to section 2006(g) of title 10, United States 
Code, representing the normal cost for future benefits under section 
1415(c) of title 38, United States Code, for any member of the armed 
services who, on or after the date of enactment of this Act--
        (1) enlists in the armed services for a period of active duty of 
    less than three years; or
        (2) receives an enlistment bonus under section 308a or 308f of 
    title 37, United States Code,
nor shall any amounts representing the normal cost of such future 
benefits be transferred from the Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 2006(d) of 
title 10, United States Code; nor shall the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs pay such benefits to any such member: Provided, That, in the 
case of a member covered by clause (1), these limitations shall not 
apply to members in combat arms skills or to members who enlist in the 
armed services on or after July 1, 1989, under a program continued or 
established by the Secretary of Defense in fiscal year 1991 to test the 
cost-effective use of special recruiting incentives involving not more 
than nineteen noncombat arms skills approved in advance by the Secretary 
of Defense: Provided further, That this subsection applies only to 
active components of the Army.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available 
for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army participating 
as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education Benefits Fund 
when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward completion of 
a service commitment: Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to 
those members who have reenlisted with this option prior to October 1, 
1987: Provided further, That this subsection applies only to active 
components of the Army.
    Sec. 8021. Funds appropriated in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of not more than 75 percent of the charges of a postsecondary 
educational institution for the tuition or expenses of an officer in the 
Ready Reserve of the Army National Guard or Army Reserve for education 
or training during his off-duty periods, except that no part of the 
charges may be paid unless the officer agrees to remain a member of the 
Ready Reserve for at least four years after completion of such training 
or education.
    Sec. 8022. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function 
of the Department of Defense that, on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act, is performed by more than ten Department of Defense civilian 
employees until a most efficient and cost-effective organization 
analysis is completed on such activity or function and certification of 
the analysis is made to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That this section shall not 
apply to a commercial or industrial type function of the Department of 
Defense that: (1) is included on the procurement list established 
pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 25, 1938 (41 U.S.C. 47), 
popularly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act; (2) is planned to 
be converted to performance by a qualified nonprofit agency for the 
blind or by a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped 
individuals in accordance with that Act; or (3) is planned to be 
converted to performance by a qualified firm under 51 percent Native 
American ownership.
    Sec. 8023. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated for the acquisition of major automated information systems 
which have not successfully completed oversight reviews required by 
Department of Defense regulations: Provided, That the automated 
information systems oversight review board will be independent of any 
other Department review function and chaired by the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence: 
Provided further, That except for those programs to modernize and 
develop migration and standard automated information systems that have 
been certified by the Department's senior information resource 
management (IRM) official as being fully compliant with the Department's 
information management initiative as defined in Defense Department 
Directive 8000.1, no funds may be expended for modernization or 
development of any automated information system (AIS) by the military 
departments, services, defense agencies, Joint Staff or Military 
Commands in excess of $2,000,000 unless the senior official of the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense with primary responsibility for the 
functions being supported or to be supported certifies to the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications and 
Intelligence that the functional requirement(s) is valid and that the 
system modernization or development has no unnecessary duplication of 
other available or planned AISs: Provided further, That the Department 
shall develop the capability for open systems integration of commercial-
off-the-shelf (COTS) applications within the Composite Health Care 
System (CHCS): Provided further, That the Department shall limit 
deployment of the Defense Blood Standard System (DBSS) to existing donor 
and processing centers, the ten Primary Casualty Receiving Hospitals 
(PCRHs), and two OCONUS military hospitals, with transfusion services 
only, and shall procure, install, and integrate by April 1, 1994, at two 
or more CHCS sites an open system compliant COTS hospital-based blood 
bank/transfusion application, with security access by application 
function and developed in the same application language as CHCS: 
Provided further, That the Department shall procure and install at all 
CHCS alpha and beta sites by September 1, 1994, an open system 
integrated anatomic pathology COTS application with security access by 
application function and developed with the same software application 
language as CHCS: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the one time investment cost, including the 
procurement or lease of new or reutilized automatic data processing 
investment equipment, peripheral equipment and related software, for the 
July 16, 1993 DOD Data Center Consolidation Plan shall not exceed 
$309,000,000.
    Sec. 8024. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Navy may use funds appropriated to charter ships to be used as 
auxiliary minesweepers providing that the owner agrees that these ships 
may be activated as Navy Reserve ships with Navy Reserve crews used in 
training exercises conducted in accordance with law and policies 
governing Naval Reserve forces: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or made available in this Act may be used to inactivate, 
disestablish, or discontinue the Navy's Craft of Opportunity Program.
    Sec. 8025. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to establish 
region-wide, at-risk, fixed price managed care contracts possessing 
features similar to those of the CHAMPUS Reform Initiative, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a plan to implement a 
nation-wide managed health care program for the military health services 
system not later than December 31, 1993: Provided, That the program 
shall include, but not be limited to: (1) a uniform, stabilized benefit 
structure characterized by a triple option health benefit feature; (2) a 
regionally-based health care management system; (3) cost minimization 
incentives including ``gatekeeping'' and annual enrollment procedures, 
capitation budgeting, and at-risk managed care support contracts; and 
(4) full and open competition for all managed care support contracts: 
Provided further, That the implementation of the nation-wide managed 
care military health services system shall be completed by September 30, 
1996: Provided further, That the Department shall competitively award 
contracts in fiscal year 1994 for at least four new region-wide, at-
risk, fixed price managed care support contracts consistent with the 
nation-wide plan, that one such contract shall include the State of 
Florida (which may include Department of Veterans Affairs' medical 
facilities with the concurrence of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs), 
one such contract shall include the States of Washington and Oregon, and 
one such contract shall include the State of Texas: Provided further, 
That any law or regulation of a State or local government relating to 
health insurance, prepaid health plans, or other health care delivery, 
administration, and financing methods shall be preempted and shall not 
apply to any region-wide, at-risk, fixed price managed care contract 
entered into pursuant to chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code: 
Provided further, That the Department shall competitively award within 
13 months after the date of enactment of this Act two contracts for 
stand-alone, at-risk managed mental health services in high utilization, 
high-cost areas, consistent with the management and service delivery 
features in operation in Department of Defense managed mental health 
care contracts: Provided further, That the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Health Affairs shall, during the current fiscal year, 
initiate through competitive procedures a managed health care program 
for eligible beneficiaries in the area of Homestead Air Force Base with 
benefits and services substantially identical to those established to 
serve beneficiary populations in areas where military medical facilities 
have been terminated, to include retail pharmacy networks available to 
Medicare-eligible beneficiaries, and shall present a plan to implement 
this program to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not 
later than January 15, 1994.
    Sec. 8026. Funds appropriated or made available in this Act shall be 
obligated and expended to continue to fully utilize the facilities at 
the United States Army Engineer's Waterways Experiment Station, 
including the continued availability of the supercomputer capability: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act may be used to purchase any 
supercomputer which is not manufactured in the United States, unless the 
Secretary of Defense certifies to the Armed Services and Appropriations 
Committees of Congress that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes that is not available 
from United States manufacturers.
    Sec. 8027. For the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177) as amended by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 
(Public Law 100-119) and by the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public 
Law 101-508), the term program, project, and activity for appropriations 
contained in this Act shall be defined as the most specific level of 
budget items identified in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
1994, the accompanying House and Senate Committee reports, the 
conference report and accompanying joint explanatory statement of the 
managers of the Committee of Conference, the related classified annexes 
and reports, and the P-1 and R-1 budget justification documents as 
subsequently modified by Congressional action: Provided, That the 
following exception to the above definition shall apply:
    For the Military Personnel and the Operation and Maintenance 
accounts, the term ``program, project, and activity'' is defined as the 
appropriations accounts contained in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act: Provided further, That at the time the President 
submits his budget for fiscal year 1995, the Department of Defense shall 
transmit to the Committees on Appropriations and the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a budget 
justification document to be known as the ``O-1'' which shall identify, 
at the budget activity, activity group, and subactivity group level, the 
amounts requested by the President to be appropriated to the Department 
of Defense for operation and maintenance in any budget request, or 
amended budget request, for fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 8028. Of the funds appropriated to the Army, $217,600,000 shall 
be available only for the Reserve Component Automation System (RCAS): 
Provided, That none of these funds can be expended--
        (1) except as approved by the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau;
        (2) unless RCAS resource management functions are performed by 
    the National Guard Bureau;
        (3) to pay the salary of an RCAS program manager who has not 
    been selected and approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
    and chartered by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the 
    Secretary of the Army;
        (4) unless the Program Manager (PM) charter makes the PM 
    accountable to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and fully 
    defines his authority, responsibility, reporting channels and 
    organizational structure;
        (5) to pay the salaries of individuals assigned to the RCAS 
    program management office unless such organization is comprised of 
    personnel chosen jointly by the Chiefs of the National Guard Bureau 
    and the Army Reserve;
        (6) to pay contracted costs for the acquisition of RCAS unless 
    RCAS is an integrated system consisting of software, hardware, and 
    communications equipment and unless such contract continues to 
    preclude the use of Government furnished equipment, operating 
    systems, and executive applications software; and
        (7) unless RCAS performs its own classified information 
    processing:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds appropriated shall be available for procurement of 
computers for the Army Reserve Component which are used to network or 
expand the capabilities of existing or future information systems or 
duplicate functions to be provided under the RCAS contract unless the 
procurement meets the following criteria: (A) at sites scheduled to 
receive RCAS equipment prior to September 30, 1995, RCAS ADP equipment 
may be procured and only in the numbers and types allocated by the RCAS 
program to each site; and at sites scheduled to receive RCAS equipment 
after September 30, 1995, RCAS ADP equipment or ADP equipment from a 
list of RCAS compatible equipment approved by the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau or his designee, may be procured and only in the numbers 
and types allocated by the RCAS program to each site; (B) the requesting 
organizational element has insufficient ADP equipment to perform 
administrative functions but not to exceed the number of work stations 
determined by the RCAS program for that site; (C) replacement equipment 
will not exceed the minimum required to maintain the reliability of 
existing capabilities; (D) replacement will be justified on the basis of 
cost and feasibility of repairs and maintenance of present ADP equipment 
as compared to the cost of replacement; and (E) the procurement under 
this policy must be approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
or his designee, provided that the procurement is a one for one 
replacement action of existing equipment.
    Sec. 8028A. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended for development or 
procurement of any automated Computer Aided Logistics system unless 
specific approval for such system is provided in writing to the 
Committees on Appropriations and Armed Services of the House and Senate 
by the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, Acquisition at least 
30 days prior to any contract solicitation.
    Sec. 8029. None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
purchase by the Department of Defense (and its departments and agencies) 
of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain 4 inches in diameter and 
under unless the anchor and mooring chain are manufactured in the United 
States from components which are substantially manufactured in the 
United States: Provided, That for the purpose of this section 
manufactured will include cutting, heat treating, quality control, 
testing of chain and welding (including the forging and shot blasting 
process): Provided further, That for the purpose of this section 
substantially all of the components of anchor and mooring chain shall be 
considered to be produced or manufactured in the United States if the 
aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured in the United 
States exceeds the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
manufactured outside the United States: Provided further, That when 
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of 
Defense requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of the service 
responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for 
national security purposes.
    Sec. 8029A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be used to purchase, install, 
replace, or otherwise repair any lock on a safe or security container 
which protects information critical to national security or any other 
classified materials and which has not been certified as passing the 
security lock specifications contained in regulation FF-L-2740 dated 
October 12, 1989, and has not passed all testing criteria and procedures 
established through February 28, 1992: Provided, That the Director of 
Central Intelligence may waive this provision, on a case-by-case basis 
only, upon certification that the above cited locks are not adequate for 
the protection of sensitive intelligence information.


                            (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8030. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense may transfer prior year, unobligated balances and 
funds appropriated in this Act to the operation and maintenance 
appropriations for the purpose of providing military technician and 
Department of Defense medical personnel pay and medical programs 
(including CHAMPUS) the same exemption from sequestration set forth in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99-177) as amended by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-119) and by the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508) as that granted the other 
military personnel accounts: Provided, That any transfer made pursuant 
to any use of the authority provided by this provision shall be limited 
so that the amounts reprogrammed to the operation and maintenance 
appropriations do not exceed the amounts sequestered under the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177) as 
amended by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-119) and by the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508): Provided further, That the 
authority to make transfers pursuant to this section is in addition to 
the authority to make transfers under other provisions of this Act: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may proceed with such 
transfer after notifying the Appropriations Committees of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate twenty calendar days in session before 
any such transfer of funds under this provision.
    Sec. 8030A. None of the funds available to the Department of the 
Navy may be used to enter into any contract for the overhaul, repair, or 
maintenance of any naval vessel homeported on the West Coast of the 
United States which includes charges for interport differential as an 
evaluation factor for award.
    Sec. 8031. None of the funds appropriated by this Act available for 
the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services 
(CHAMPUS) shall be available for the reimbursement of any health care 
provider for inpatient mental health service for care received when a 
patient is referred to a provider of inpatient mental health care or 
residential treatment care by a medical or health care professional 
having an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is 
referred: Provided, That this limitation does not apply in the case of 
inpatient mental health services provided under the program for the 
handicapped under subsection (d) of section 1079 of title 10, United 
States Code, provided as partial hospital care, or provided pursuant to 
a waiver authorized by the Secretary of Defense because of medical or 
psychological circumstances of the patient that are confirmed by a 
health professional who is not a Federal employee after a review, 
pursuant to rules prescribed by the Secretary, which takes into account 
the appropriate level of care for the patient, the intensity of services 
required by the patient, and the availability of that care.
    Sec. 8032. All new Department of Defense procurements shall 
separately identify software costs in the work breakdown structure 
defined by MIL-STD-881 in those instances where software is considered 
to be a major category of cost.
    Sec. 8033. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, of the 
funds appropriated, reimbursable expenses incurred by the Department of 
Defense on behalf of the Soviet Union or its successor entities in 
monitoring United States implementation of the Treaty Between the United 
States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the 
Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range or Shorter-Range Missiles (``INF 
Treaty''), concluded December 8, 1987, may be treated as orders received 
and obligation authority for the applicable appropriation, account, or 
fund increased accordingly. Likewise, any reimbursements received for 
such costs may be credited to the same appropriation, account, or fund 
to which the expenses were charged: Provided, That reimbursements which 
are not received within one hundred and eighty days after submission of 
an appropriate request for payment shall be subject to interest at the 
current rate established pursuant to section 2(b)(1)(B) of the Export-
Import Bank Act of 1945 (59 Stat. 526). Interest shall begin to accrue 
on the one hundred and eighty-first day following submission of an 
appropriate request for payment: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated in this Act may be used to reimburse United States military 
personnel for reasonable costs of subsistence, at rates to be determined 
by the Secretary of Defense, incurred while accompanying Soviet 
Inspection Team members or inspection team members of the successor 
entities of the Soviet Union engaged in activities related to the INF 
Treaty: Provided further, That this provision includes only the in-
country period (referred to in the INF Treaty) and is effective whether 
such duty is performed at, near, or away from an individual's permanent 
duty station.
    Sec. 8034. Funds available in this Act may be used to provide 
transportation for the next-of-kin of individuals who have been 
prisoners of war or missing in action from the Vietnam era to an annual 
meeting in the United States, under such regulations as the Secretary of 
Defense may prescribe.
    Sec. 8035. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
shall be obligated or expended for (or to implement) automatic data 
processing, data processing center, central design activity, DMRD 918, 
defense information infrastructure, and military or civilian personnel 
function consolidation plans, consolidations, and disestablishment or 
realignment plans that impact, in terms of reductions in force or 
transfers in military and civilian personnel, end strength, billets, 
functions, or missions, the Enlisted Personnel Management Center, the 
Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station, New Orleans, and the 
Naval Reserve Personnel Center until sixty legislative days after the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations a report, including complete review comments and a 
validation by the Department of Defense Comptroller, justifying and 
validating that such plans and actions: (1) do not consolidate, plan to 
consolidate, disestablish or realign Department of Defense or Service 
data processing functions or centers, central design activities, or 
military and civilian personnel functions and activities, or claim 
savings from such function and activity consolidations and 
disestablishment, realignment, or consolidation plans, that are in more 
than one defense management report plan or decision or any other 
Department of Defense or Service consolidation, disestablishment or 
realignment plan; (2) utilize criteria to evaluate, measure and compare, 
using objective measurements, how data processing centers, central 
design activities, military and civilian personnel functions and 
activities are ranked in terms of operational readiness, customer 
satisfaction, and the most cost effective and least expensive from a 
business performance, and regional operations cost standpoint; (3) will 
provide equal or better service for DOD customers; (4) provide details 
as to the impacts on the quality of life and benefits of the individual 
service person, dependents, and civilian personnel; and (5) will not 
adversely impact the mission and readiness of the Navy and Naval 
Reserves: Provided, That funds made available to the Department of 
Defense shall be available to implement the 1993 Defense Base Closure 
and Realignment Commission approved recommendations concerning the 
Enlisted Personnel Management Center and the Naval Computer and 
Telecommunications Station, New Orleans.
    Sec. 8035A. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be derived from funds 
within the amounts appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 8036. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may, by Executive 
Agreement, establish with host nation governments in NATO member states 
a separate account into which such residual value amounts negotiated in 
the return of United States military installations in NATO member states 
may be deposited, in the currency of the host nation, in lieu of direct 
monetary transfers to the United States Treasury: Provided, That such 
credits may be utilized only for the construction of facilities to 
support United States military forces in that host nation, or such real 
property maintenance and base operating costs that are currently 
executed through monetary transfers to such host nations: Provided 
further, That the Department of Defense's budget submission for fiscal 
year 1995 shall identify such sums anticipated in residual value 
settlements, and identify such construction, real property maintenance 
or base operating costs that shall be funded by the host nation through 
such credits: Provided further, That all military construction projects 
to be executed from such accounts must be previously approved in a prior 
Act of Congress: Provided further, That each such Executive Agreement 
with a NATO member host nation shall be reported to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Armed Services of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate thirty days prior to the conclusion and endorsement of any 
such agreement established under this provision.
    Sec. 8037. All obligations incurred in anticipation of the 
appropriations and authority provided in this Act are hereby ratified 
and confirmed if otherwise in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act.
    Sec. 8038. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
in this Act shall be used to demilitarize or dispose of more than 
310,784 unserviceable M1 Garand rifles and M1 Carbines.
    Sec. 8039. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to pay more than 50 
percent of an amount paid to any person under section 308 of title 37, 
United States Code, in a lump sum.
    Sec. 8040. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used by 
the Department of Defense to assign a supervisor's title or grade when 
the number of people he or she supervises is considered as a basis for 
this determination: Provided, That savings that result from this 
provision are represented as such in future budget proposals.
    Sec. 8041. Of the funds appropriated by this Act, no more than 
$18,500,000 shall be available for the mental health care demonstration 
project at Fort Bragg, North Carolina: Provided, That adjustments may be 
made for normal and reasonable price and program growth.
    Sec. 8042. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
pay health care providers under the Civilian Health and Medical Program 
of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) for services determined under the 
CHAMPUS Peer Review Organization (PRO) Program to be not medically or 
psychologically necessary. The Secretary of Defense may by regulation 
adopt any quality and utilization review requirements and procedures in 
effect for the Peer Review Organization Program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act (Medicare) that the Secretary determines necessary, 
and may adapt the Medicare requirements and procedures to the 
circumstances of the CHAMPUS PRO Program as the Secretary determines 
appropriate.
    Sec. 8043. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for payments under the Department of Defense contract with the 
Louisiana State University Medical Center involving the use of cats for 
Brain Missile Wound Research, and the Department of Defense shall not 
make payments under such contract from funds obligated prior to the date 
of the enactment of this Act, except as necessary for costs incurred by 
the contractor prior to the enactment of this Act, and until thirty 
legislative days after the final General Accounting Office report on the 
aforesaid contract is submitted for review to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided, 
That funds necessary for the care of animals covered by this contract 
are allowed.
    Sec. 8044. None of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act 
shall be available to conduct bone trauma research at any Army Research 
Laboratory until the Secretary of the Army certifies that the synthetic 
compound to be used in the experiments is of such a type that its use 
will result in a significant medical finding, the research has military 
application, the research will be conducted in accordance with the 
standards set by an animal care and use committee, and the research does 
not duplicate research already conducted by a manufacturer or any other 
research organization.
    Sec. 8045. The Secretary of Defense shall include in any base 
closure and realignment plan submitted to Congress after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a complete review for the five-year period 
beginning on October 1, 1993, which shall include expected force 
structure and levels for such period, expected installation requirements 
for such period, a budget plan for such period, the cost savings 
expected to be realized through realignments and closures of military 
installations during such period, an economics model to identify the 
critical local economic sectors affected by proposed closures and 
realignments of military installations and an assessment of the economic 
impact in each area in which a military installation is to be realigned 
or closed.
    Sec. 8046. No more than $50,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used for any single relocation of an 
organization, unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense 
into or within the National Capital Region: Provided, That the Secretary 
of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and Senate that such a relocation is required in the 
best interest of the Government: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated or made available in this Act shall be used for the 
relocation into the National Capital Region of the Air Force Office of 
Medical Support located at Brooks Air Force Base.
    Sec. 8046A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
contract awarded by the Department of Defense in fiscal year 1994 for 
construction or service performed in whole or in part in a State which 
is not contiguous with another State and has an unemployment rate in 
excess of the national average rate of unemployment as determined by the 
Secretary of Labor shall include a provision requiring the contractor to 
employ, for the purpose of performing that portion of the contract in 
such State that is not contiguous with another State, individuals who 
are residents of such State and who, in the case of any craft or trade, 
possess or would be able to acquire promptly the necessary skills: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements of 
this section in the interest of national security.
    Sec. 8047. During the current fiscal year, funds appropriated or 
otherwise available for any Federal agency, the Congress, the judicial 
branch, or the District of Columbia may be used for the pay, allowances, 
and benefits of an employee as defined by section 2105 of title 5 or an 
individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia, 
permanent or temporary indefinite, who--
        (1) is a member of a Reserve component of the armed forces, as 
    described in section 261 of title 10, or the National Guard, as 
    described in section 101 of title 32;
        (2) performs, for the purpose of providing military aid to 
    enforce the law or providing assistance to civil authorities in the 
    protection or saving of life or property or prevention of injury--
            (A) Federal service under section 331, 332, 333, 3500, or 
        8500 of title 10, or other provision of law, as applicable, or
            (B) full-time military service for his State, the District 
        of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of 
        the United States; and
        (3) requests and is granted--
            (A) leave under the authority of this section; or
            (B) annual leave, which may be granted without regard to the 
        provisions of sections 5519 and 6323(b) of title 5, if such 
        employee is otherwise entitled to such annual leave:
Provided, That any employee who requests leave under subsection (3)(A) 
for service described in subsection (2) of this section is entitled to 
such leave, subject to the provisions of this section and of the last 
sentence of section 6323(b) of title 5, and such leave shall be 
considered leave under section 6323(b) of title 5.
    Sec. 8048. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to perform any cost study pursuant to the provisions of OMB 
Circular A-76 if the study being performed exceeds a period of twenty-
four months after initiation of such study with respect to a single 
function activity or forty-eight months after initiation of such study 
for a multi-function activity.
    Sec. 8049. Funds appropriated by this Act for the American Forces 
Information Service shall not be used for any national or international 
political or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8050. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, 
the Secretary of Defense may adjust wage rates for civilian employees 
hired for certain health care occupations as authorized for the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs by section 7455 of title 38, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8051. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a qualified 
Indian Tribal corporation or Alaska Native Corporation furnishing the 
product of a responsible small business concern shall not be denied the 
opportunity to compete for and be awarded a procurement contract 
pursuant to section 2323 of title 10, United States Code, solely because 
the Indian Tribal corporation or Alaska Native Corporation is not the 
actual manufacturer or processor of the product to be supplied under the 
contract.
    Sec. 8052. Of the funds made available in this Act, not less than 
$11,679,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol, of which 
$4,642,000 shall be available for Operation and Maintenance.
    Sec. 8053. None of the funds appropriated or made available in this 
Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 815th 
Weather Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such action would reduce 
the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in 
this Act.
    Sec. 8054. During the current fiscal year, withdrawal credits may be 
made by the Defense Business Operations Fund to the credit of current 
applicable appropriations of an activity of the Department of Defense in 
connection with the acquisition by that activity of supplies that are 
repairable components which are repairable at a repair depot and that 
are capitalized into the Defense Business Operations Fund as the result 
of management changes concerning depot level repairable assets charged 
to an activity of the Department of Defense which is a customer of the 
Defense Business Operations Fund that became effective on April 1, 1992.
    Sec. 8055. (a) Of the funds for the procurement of supplies or 
services appropriated by this Act, qualified nonprofit agencies for the 
blind or other severely handicapped shall be afforded the maximum 
practicable opportunity to participate as subcontractors and suppliers 
in the performance of contracts let by the Department of Defense.
    (b) During the current fiscal year, a business concern which has 
negotiated with a military service or defense agency a subcontracting 
plan for the participation by small business concerns pursuant to 
section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) shall be given 
credit toward meeting that subcontracting goal for any purchases made 
from qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely 
handicapped.
    (c) For the purpose of this section, the phrase ``qualified 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped'' means a 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped that has 
been approved by the Committee for the Purchase from the Blind and Other 
Severely Handicapped under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46-
48).
    Sec. 8056. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, there is 
established, under the direction and control of the Attorney General, 
the National Drug Intelligence Center, whose mission it shall be to 
coordinate and consolidate drug intelligence from all national security 
and law enforcement agencies, and produce information regarding the 
structure, membership, finances, communications, and activities of drug 
trafficking organizations: Provided, That funding for the operation of 
the National Drug Intelligence Center, including personnel costs 
associated therewith, shall be provided from the funds appropriated to 
the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8056A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition 
to the funds made available elsewhere in this Act to the Department of 
the Navy, $60,000,000 to remain available until expended, shall be made 
available only for obligations incurred in the conveyance, clean-up, and 
restoration of Kaho'olawe Island.
    Sec. 8057. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, the Navy 
may provide notice to exercise options under the LEASAT program for the 
next fiscal year, in accordance with the terms of the Aide Memoire, 
dated January 5, 1981, as amended by the Aide Memoire dated April 30, 
1986, and as implemented in the LEASAT contract.
    Sec. 8058. During the current fiscal year, net receipts pursuant to 
collections from third party payers pursuant to section 1095 of title 
10, United States Code, shall be made available to the local facility of 
the uniformed services responsible for the collections and shall be over 
and above the facility's direct budget amount.
    Sec. 8059. None of the funds in this Act shall be obligated for the 
procurement of Multibeam Sonar Mapping Systems, not manufactured in the 
United States: Provided, That the Secretary of the military department 
responsible for such procurement may waive this restriction on a case-
by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that 
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of 
Defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition must 
be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8059A. Of the funds made available by this Act in title III, 
Procurement, $8,000,000, drawn pro rata from each appropriations account 
in title III, shall be available for incentive payments authorized by 
section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974, 25 U.S.C. 1544. These 
payments shall be available only to contractors which have submitted 
subcontracting plans pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 637(d), and according to 
regulations which shall be promulgated by the Secretary of Defense 
within 90 days of the passage of this Act.
    Sec. 8060. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department of Defense is 
hereby authorized to develop and procure the LANDSAT 7 vehicle.
    Sec. 8061. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
fill the commander's position at any military medical facility with a 
health care professional unless the prospective candidate can 
demonstrate professional administrative skills.
    Sec. 8062. Of the funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense 
Health Program, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
payable for services provided under this section shall not be less than 
the amount calculated under the coordination of benefits reimbursement 
formula utilized when CHAMPUS is a secondary payor to medical insurance 
programs other than Medicare, and such appropriations as necessary shall 
be available (notwithstanding the last sentence of section 1086(c) of 
title 10, United States Code) to continue Civilian Health and Medical 
Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) benefits, until age 65, 
under such section for a former member of a uniformed service who is 
entitled to retired or retainer pay or equivalent pay, or a dependent of 
such a member, or any other beneficiary described by section 1086(c) of 
title 10, United States Code, who becomes eligible for hospital 
insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) solely on the grounds of physical 
disability, or end stage renal disease: Provided, That expenses under 
this section shall only be covered to the extent that such expenses are 
not covered under parts A and B of title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act and are otherwise covered under CHAMPUS: Provided further, That no 
reimbursement shall be made for services provided prior to October 1, 
1991.
    Sec. 8063. During the current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense 
may accept burdensharing contributions in the form of money from Japan, 
the Republic of Korea, and the State of Kuwait for the costs of local 
national employees, supplies, and services of the Department of Defense 
to be credited to applicable Department of Defense operation and 
maintenance appropriations available for the salaries and benefits of 
national employees of Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the State of 
Kuwait, supplies, and services to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and time period as those appropriations to which 
credited: Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of each 
quarter of the fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Congress a report of contributions accepted by the Secretary under this 
provision during the preceding quarter.
    Sec. 8064. (a) Funds appropriated in this Act to finance activities 
of Department of Defense (DOD) Federally Funded Research and Development 
Centers (FFRDCs) may not be obligated or expended for an FFRDC if a 
member of its Board of Directors or Trustees simultaneously serves on 
the Board of Directors or Trustees of a profit-making company under 
contract to the Department of Defense unless the FFRDC has a DOD 
approved conflict of interest policy for its members.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act are available to 
establish a new FFRDC, either as a new entity, or as a separate entity 
administered by an organization managing another FFRDC, or as a 
nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a consortium of other 
FFRDCs and other nonprofit entities.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amounts 
available to the Department of Defense during fiscal year 1994, not more 
than $1,352,650,000 may be obligated for financing activities of 
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers.
    (d) The total amount appropriated by this Act is hereby reduced by 
$200,000,000 to reflect the obligation limitation contained in 
subsection (c).
    (e) The total amount appropriated to or for the use of the 
Department of Defense in titles III and IV of this Act is reduced by 
$200,000,000 to reflect savings from the decreased use of non-FFRDC 
consulting services by the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8065. None of the funds appropriated or made available in this 
Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy or armor steel plate for use 
in any Government-owned facility or property under the control of the 
Department of Defense which were not melted and rolled in the United 
States or Canada: Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall 
apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society of 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) 
specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel plate: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the military department responsible for the 
procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes: Provided further, That these 
restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8065A. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
during the current fiscal year may be obligated or expended to develop 
for aircraft or helicopter weapons systems an airborne instrumentation 
system for flight test data acquisition, or to develop or implement 
modifications to an existing airborne instrumentation system, other than 
the Common Airborne Instrumentation System under development in the 
Central Test and Evaluation Investment Development program element 
funded in the ``Developmental Test and Evaluation, Defense'' 
appropriations account.
    Sec. 8066. None of the unobligated balances available in the 
National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund during the current fiscal 
year may be obligated or expended to finance any grant or contract to 
conduct research, development, test and evaluation activities for the 
development or production of advanced materials, unless amounts for such 
purposes are specifically appropriated in a subsequent appropriations 
Act.
    Sec. 8067. For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services, the 
Committees on Appropriations, and the subcommittees on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations, of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 8068. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may acquire the 
modification, depot maintenance and repair of aircraft, vehicles and 
vessels as well as the production of components and other Defense-
related articles, through competition between Department of Defense 
depot maintenance activities and private firms: Provided, That the 
Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or defense 
agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall certify that 
successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct and indirect 
costs for both public and private bids: Provided further, That Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions 
conducted under this section.
    Sec. 8069. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal 
defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the United 
States and a foreign country pursuant to which the Secretary of Defense 
has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for certain products in 
that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on 
the amount of Department of Defense purchases from foreign entities in 
fiscal year 1994. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar value 
of items for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to any 
agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act of 
1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to which 
the United States is a party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means title III of the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for 
the Treasury and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 
30, 1934, and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 
10a et seq.).
    Sec. 8070. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act in title II, 
Operation and Maintenance, Army, $5,000,000 shall be available only to 
execute the cleanup of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination 
affecting the Sale Parcel at Hamilton Air Force Base, in Novato, in the 
State of California.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the event that 
the purchaser of the Sale Parcel exercises its option to withdraw from 
all or a portion of the sale, as provided in the Agreement and 
Modification, dated September 25, 1990, between the Department of 
Defense, the General Services Administration, and the purchaser, as 
amended, the purchaser's deposit of $4,500,000 shall be returned by the 
General Services Administration and funds eligible for reimbursement 
under the Agreement and Modification, as amended, shall come from the 
funds made available to the Department of Defense by this Act.
    (c) In the event that the purchaser purchases only a portion of the 
Sale Parcel and exercises its option to withdraw from the sale as to the 
rest of the Sale Parcel, the portion of the Sale Parcel that is not 
purchased (other than Landfill 26 and an appropriate buffer area around 
it and the groundwater treatment facility site), together with any of 
the land referred to in section 9099(e) of Public Law 102-396 that is 
not purchased by the purchaser, shall be sold to the City of Novato, in 
the State of California, for the sum of One Dollar as a public benefit 
transfer for school, classroom or other educational use, for use as a 
public park or recreation area or for further conveyance as provided 
herein, subject to the following restrictions: (1) if the City sells any 
portion of such land to any third party within ten years after the 
transfer to the City, which sale may be made without the foregoing use 
restrictions, any proceeds received by the City in connection with such 
sale, minus the demonstrated reasonable costs of conducting the sale and 
of any improvements made by the City to the land following its 
acquisition of the land (but only to the extent such improvements 
increase the value of the portion sold), shall be immediately turned 
over to the Army in reimbursement of the withdrawal payment made by the 
Army to the contract purchaser and the costs of cleaning up the Landfill 
and (2) until one year following completion of the cleanup of 
contaminated soil in the Landfill and completion of the groundwater 
treatment facilities, the sale must be at a per-acre price for the 
portion sold that is at least equal to the per-acre contract price paid 
by the purchaser for the portion of the Sale Parcel purchased under the 
Agreement and Modification, as amended, and thereafter must be at a 
price at least equal to the fair market value of the portion sold. The 
foregoing restrictions shall not apply to a transfer to another public 
or quasi-public agency for public uses of the kind described above. The 
deed to the City shall contain a clause providing that, if any of the 
proceeds referred to in clause (1) are not delivered to the Army within 
30 days after sale, or any portion of the land not sold as provided 
herein is used for other than educational, park or recreational uses, 
title to the applicable portion of such land shall revert to the United 
States Government at the election of the General Services 
Administration. The Army shall agree to deliver into the applicable 
closing escrow an acknowledgement of receipt of any proceeds described 
in clause (1) above and a release of the reverter right as to the 
affected land, effective upon such receipt.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Air Force shall 
be reimbursed for expenditures in excess of $15,000,000 in connection 
with the total clean-up of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination on 
the aforementioned Sale Parcel from the proceeds collected upon the 
closing of any portion of the Sale Parcel purchased by the contract 
purchaser under the Agreement and Modification, as amended.
    (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the purchaser's 
reimbursement claims shall be audited by the Defense Contract Audit 
Agency for reasonableness and accuracy before the Department of Defense 
provides any funds under the purchaser's withdrawal and reimbursement 
rights.
    Sec. 8070A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
statutorily-required analysis of the impact on the defense technology 
and industrial base of terminations and significant reductions of major 
research and development programs and procurement programs of the 
Department of Defense shall address only those actions recommended by 
the Defense Department in its annual budget request and amendments 
thereto, supplemental requests, or proposed rescissions.
    Sec. 8071. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Defense may, when he considers it in the best interest of the United 
States, cancel any part of an indebtedness, up to $2,500, that is or was 
owed to the United States by a member or former member of a uniformed 
service if such indebtedness, as determined by the Secretary, was 
incurred in connection with Operation Desert Shield/Storm: Provided, 
That the amount of an indebtedness previously paid by a member or former 
member and cancelled under this section shall be refunded to the member.
    Sec. 8072. Appropriations contained in this Act that remain 
available at the end of the current fiscal year as a result of energy 
cost savings realized by the Department of Defense shall remain 
available for obligation for the next fiscal year to the extent, and for 
the purposes, provided in section 2865 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8073. During the current fiscal year, voluntary separation 
incentives payable under 10 U.S.C. 1175 may be paid in such amounts as 
are necessary from the assets of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Fund 
established by section 1175(h)(1).


                       (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8074. Amounts deposited during fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to 
the special account established under 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) and to the 
special account established under 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1) are appropriated 
and shall be available until transferred by the Secretary of Defense to 
current applicable appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense 
under the terms and conditions specified by 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) (A) and 
(B) and 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1)(B), to be merged with and to be available 
for the same time period and the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred.
    Sec. 8075. In order to maintain an electric furnace capacity in the 
United States, preference for the purchase of chromite ore and manganese 
ore authorized for disposal from the National Defense Stockpile shall be 
given to domestic producers of high carbon ferrochromium and high carbon 
ferromanganese--
        (A) whose primary output during the three preceding years has 
    been ferrochromium or ferromanganese; and
        (B) who guarantee to use the chromite and manganese ore for 
    domestic purposes.
    Sec. 8075A. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be 
available for the preparation of studies on--
        (a) the feasibility of removal and transportation of unitary 
    chemical weapons from the eight chemical storage sites within the 
    continental United States: Provided, That this prohibition shall not 
    apply to non-stockpile material in the United States or to studies 
    needed for environmental analysis required by the National 
    Environmental Policy Act, or for General Accounting Office studies 
    requested by a Member of Congress or a Congressional Committee; and
        (b) the potential future uses of the nine chemical disposal 
    facilities other than for the destruction of stockpile chemical 
    munitions and as limited by section 1412(c)(2), Public Law 99-145: 
    Provided, That this prohibition does not apply to future use studies 
    for the CAMDS facility at Tooele, Utah.
    Sec. 8076. During the current fiscal year, none of the funds 
available to the Department of Defense may be used to procure or acquire 
(1) defensive handguns or defensive handgun ammunition unless such 
handguns or handgun ammunition are the M9 9mm Department of Defense 
standard handgun or ammunition for such handguns, or (2) offensive 
handguns and ammunition except for the Special Operations Forces.
    Sec. 8077. During the current fiscal year, appropriations available 
to the Department of Defense may be used to reimburse a member of a 
reserve component of the Armed Forces who is not otherwise entitled to 
travel and transportation allowances and who occupies transient 
government housing while performing active duty for training or inactive 
duty training: Provided, That such members may be provided lodging in 
kind if transient government quarters are unavailable as if the member 
was entitled to such allowances under subsection (a) of section 404 of 
title 37, United States Code: Provided further, That if lodging in kind 
is provided, any authorized service charge or cost of such lodging may 
be paid directly from funds appropriated for operation and maintenance 
of the reserve component of the member concerned.
    Sec. 8078. For fiscal year 1994, the total amount appropriated to 
fund the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities program, operated 
pursuant to section 911 of Public Law 97-99 (42 U.S.C. 248c), is limited 
to $291,000,000, of which not more than $265,000,000 may be provided by 
the funds appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 8079. None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
support in any manner, including travel or other related expenses, the 
``Tailhook Association'': Provided, That investigations by the Secretary 
of the Navy or consultation with the Tailhook Association are not 
prohibited by this provision.
    Sec. 8080. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, from funds 
available to the Department of Defense, the Director of the Air National 
Guard shall operate a Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence 
planning office manned by three full-time Air Guard officers in the rank 
of O-6, O-5, and O-4: Provided, That these officers shall be in addition 
to the strengths authorized in section 524 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8081. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or made 
available to the Department of Defense and deposited into the Pentagon 
Reservation Maintenance Revolving Fund may be used for the purpose of 
constructing a Pentagon Maintenance Facility or a Logistics Support 
Extension.
    Sec. 8082. The President shall include with each budget for a fiscal 
year submitted to the Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, materials that shall identify clearly and separately the 
amounts requested in the budget for appropriation for that fiscal year 
for salaries and expenses related to administrative activities of the 
Department of Defense, the military departments, and the Defense 
Agencies.
    Sec. 8083. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be obligated or expended for construction of Ground Wave Emergency 
Network (GWEN) sites in Fiscal Year 1994.
    Sec. 8083A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Naval 
shipyards of the United States shall be eligible to participate in any 
manufacturing extension program financed by funds appropriated in this 
or any other Act.
    Sec. 8084. The $15,000,000 made available in section 9088 of the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) for 
payment of claims to United States military and civilian personnel for 
damages incurred as a result of the volcanic eruption of Mount Pinatubo 
in the Philippines, shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1994, notwithstanding section 9003 of that Act: Provided, 
That $5,000,000 of the funds made available by this section shall be 
available until September 30, 1995 for expenses associated with the 
construction and modification of facilities to support the relocation of 
military training programs from installations in the Philippines to 
sites in the United States.


                            (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8085. In addition to any other transfer authority contained in 
this Act, $100,000,000 appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be transferred to 
appropriations contained in this Act which are available for the payment 
of civilian voluntary separation incentives, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred.
    Sec. 8086. During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in the 
Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment Recovery 
Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
shall be available until expended for the payments specified by section 
2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8087. During the current fiscal year, annual payments granted 
under the provisions of section 4416 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 1993 (Public Law 102-428; 106 Stat. 
2714) shall be made from appropriations in this Act which are available 
for the pay of reserve component personnel.
    Sec. 8088. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
relocate the 116th Fighter Wing of the Air National Guard from Dobbins 
Air Reserve Base to Robins Air Force Base, or to convert that wing from 
F-15A aircraft to B-1B aircraft.
    Sec. 8088A. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for establishing a Naval East Coast Electronics Engineering Center may 
be obligated or expended for the establishment of such Headquarters at 
any location other than Charleston, South Carolina: Provided, That no 
such funds may be obligated or expended for the establishment or 
operation of subordinate detachments at Portsmouth, Virginia, with 
manning levels or broader functions than that specifically stated in the 
1993 Report to the President of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
Commission: Provided further, That no funds may be obligated or expended 
for the relocation, alteration or modification of the functions 
specified in the 1993 Report to the President of the Defense Base 
Closure and Realignment Commission to be maintained at St. Inigoes, 
Maryland, including all civilian management, support personnel and 
management operations associated with these functions that were in 
existence as of September 20, 1993.
    Sec. 8089. (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary 
of the Army may release, discharge, waive, and quitclaim all right, 
title, and interest which the United States may have by virtue of the 
quitclaim deed dated June 18, 1956, in and to approximately 6.89 acres 
of real property, with improvements thereon, in Harris County, Texas.
    (b) Condition.--The Secretary may carry out subsection (a) only 
after obtaining satisfactory assurances that the State of Texas shall 
obtain, in exchange for the real property referred to in subsection (a), 
a tract of real property--
        (1) which is at least equal in value to the real property 
    referred to in subsection (a), and
        (2) which shall be, on the date on which the State obtains it, 
    subject to the same restrictions and covenants with respect to the 
    Federal Government as are applicable on the date of the enactment of 
    this Act to the real property referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Legal Description of Real Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
based upon surveys that are satisfactory to the Secretary.
    Sec. 8090. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to procure aircraft fuel cells unless the fuel cells are produced or 
manufactured in the United States by a domestic-operated entity: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the military department responsible for 
the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8090A. None of the funds available to the Department of the Air 
Force shall be available to establish or support any organic depot 
maintenance support activity for the B-2 bomber until the Under 
Secretary of Defense, Acquisition reviews the existing infrastructure 
for the private sector and Air Force Depot support and maintenance of 
the B-2 and reports to the Congressional Defense Committees no later 
than May 15, 1994, the most efficient and cost effective utilization of 
both public and private facilities to support the B-2.
    Sec. 8091. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not less 
than $750,000 of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Operation 
and Maintenance, Army'' in title II of this Act shall be made available 
until expended to conduct a demonstration program involving the Army 
Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps battalion at Indiana University-
Northwest and Army Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units near 
the University. The purpose of the program shall be to encourage 
minority students in secondary educational institutions to continue 
their education.
    (b) Under the program, Senior Reserve Officers' Corps cadets may 
serve as mentors and tutors for students in Junior Reserve Officers' 
Corps units. Cadets and students may participate in combined activities, 
including summer camps, field training, and other traditional military 
activities.
    (c) Senior Reserve Officers' Corps cadets who serve as mentors and 
tutors may be paid a stipend.
    (d) After a cadet has satisfactorily served in the program, under 
criteria established by the Secretary of the Army and for a period of 
time determined by the Secretary, the cadet may be provided financial 
assistance tuition, books, laboratory fees, and similar educational 
expenses if the cadet continues to serve satisfactorily in the program.
    Sec. 8092. During the current fiscal year, appropriations which are 
available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance may 
be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of not 
more than $25,000.
    Sec. 8093. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for direct support of the joint Department of Defense/
Department of Energy Safeguard C contingent nuclear testing program.
    Sec. 8094. In connection with procurements of petroleum products 
made by the Department of Defense with appropriated funds, the Secretary 
shall consider all qualified bids from any eligible country under the 
Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act which is hereby deemed a 
designated country pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2511(b).
    Sec. 8094A. Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, not less than $8,000,000 
shall be made available until expended to the Administration for Native 
Americans within 90 days of enactment of this Act only for the 
mitigation of environmental impacts, including the gathering of 
information, documenting of environmental damage, and developing a 
system for prioritization of mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from 
Department of Defense activities.
    Sec. 8095. During the current fiscal year, appropriations available 
for the pay and allowances of active duty members of the Armed Forces 
shall be available to pay the retired pay which is payable pursuant to 
section 4403 of Public Law 102-484 (10 U.S.C. 1293 note) under the terms 
and conditions provided in section 4403.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8096. In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, $25,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense and shall be available only for transfer to the 
National Park Service, of which: $10,000,000 shall be available to 
repair and rehabilitate military structures transferred from the 
Department of Defense to the National Park Service as part of the Golden 
Gate National Recreation Area; $10,000,000 shall be available to convert 
and rehabilitate military structures at Fort Wadsworth for National Park 
Service's purposes; and $5,000,000 shall be available for cultural 
cyclic resource programs within the National Park Service system: 
Provided, That these funds shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1995.
    Sec. 8097. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Defense Business Operations 
Fund shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for the 
purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated sale 
during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers 
of the Defense Business Operations Fund if such an item would not have 
been chargeable to the Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal 
year 1993 and if the purchase of such an investment item would be 
chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations made to the 
Department of Defense for procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 1995 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1995 Department of Defense budget shall be 
prepared and submitted to the Congress on the basis that any equipment 
which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
fiscal year 1995 procurement appropriation and not in the supply 
management business area or any other area or category of the Defense 
Business Operations Fund.
    Sec. 8098. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be available 
for use by a Military Department to modify an aircraft, weapon, ship or 
other item of equipment, that the Military Department concerned plans to 
retire or otherwise dispose of within five years after completion of the 
modification: Provided, That this prohibition shall not apply to safety 
modifications: Provided further, That this prohibition may be waived by 
the Secretary of a Military Department if the Secretary determines it is 
in the best national security interest of the country to provide such 
waiver and so notifies the congressional defense committees in writing.
    Sec. 8099. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) the United States Government has not made adequate efforts 
    to seek the payment of compensation by the government of Peru for 
    the death and injuries to United States military personnel resulting 
    from the attack by aircraft of the military forces of Peru on April 
    24, 1992, against a United States Air Force C-130 aircraft operating 
    off the coast of Peru; and
        (2) in failing to make such efforts adequately, the United 
    States Government has failed in its obligation to support the 
    servicemen and their families involved in the incident and generally 
    to support members of the Armed Forces carrying out missions on 
    behalf of the United States.
    (b) Semiannual Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit a 
report to Congress on December 1 and June 1 of each year on the efforts 
made by the Government of the United States during the preceding six-
month period to seek the payment of fair and equitable compensation by 
the Government of Peru (1) to the survivors of Master Sergeant Joseph 
Beard, Jr., United States Air Force, who was killed in the attack 
described in subsection (a), and (2) to the other crew members who were 
wounded in the attack and survived.
    (c) Termination of Report Requirement.--The requirement in 
subsection (b) shall terminate upon certification by the Secretary of 
Defense to Congress that the Government of Peru has paid fair and 
equitable compensation as described in subsection (b).
    Sec. 8099A. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the Department 
of Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated 
funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages sold by the drink) 
on a military installation located in the United States unless such malt 
beverages and wine are procured within that State, or in the case of the 
District of Columbia, within the District of Columbia, in which the 
military installation is located: Provided, That in a case in which the 
military installation is located in more than one State, purchases may 
be made in any State in which the installation is located: Provided 
further, That such local procurement requirements for malt beverages and 
wine shall apply to all alcoholic beverages only for military 
installations in States which are not contiguous with another State: 
Provided further, That alcoholic beverages other than wine and malt 
beverages, in contiguous States and the District of Columbia shall be 
procured from the most competitive source, price and other factors 
considered.
    Sec. 8100. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, 
the Department of Defense is directed to use available off the shelf, 
nondevelopmental items in filling small craft and small boat 
requirements when at all possible.
    Sec. 8101. No part of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
prepare or present a request to the Committees on Appropriations for 
reprogramming of funds, unless for higher priority items, based on 
unforeseen military requirements, than those for which originally 
appropriated and in no case where the item for which reprogramming is 
requested has been denied by the Congress.
    Sec. 8102. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for payment of the compensation of personnel assigned to or 
serving in the National Foreign Intelligence Program in excess of 96 
percent of such personnel actually assigned to or serving in the 
National Foreign Intelligence Program on September 30, 1992: Provided, 
That in making any reduction in the number of such personnel that may be 
required pursuant to this section, the percentage of reductions to 
Senior Intelligence Service positions shall be equal to or exceed the 
percentage of reductions to non-Senior Intelligence Service positions: 
Provided further, That in making any reduction in the number of such 
personnel that may be required pursuant to this section, the percentage 
of reductions to positions in the National Capital Region shall be equal 
to or exceed the percentage of reductions to positions outside of the 
National Capital Region.
    Sec. 8102A. (a) Of the amounts available to the Department of 
Defense for fiscal year 1994, not less than $10,000,000 shall be 
available for National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate 
Fellowships to be awarded on a competitive basis by the Secretary of 
Defense to United States citizens or nationals pursuing advanced degrees 
in fields of primary concern and interest to the Department.
    (b) Fellowships awarded pursuant to subsection (a) above shall not 
be restricted on the basis of the geographical locations in the United 
States of the institutions at which the recipients are pursuing the 
aforementioned advanced degrees.
    (c) Not less than 50 per centum of the funds necessary to carry out 
this section shall be derived from the amounts available for the 
University Research Initiatives Program in ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', and the balance necessary shall be 
derived from amounts available for Defense Research Sciences under title 
IV of this Act.
    Sec. 8103. None of the funds provided by this Act may be used to pay 
the salaries of any person or persons who authorize the transfer of 
obligated and deobligated appropriations into the Reserve for 
Contingencies of the Central Intelligence Agency.
    Sec. 8104. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, funds 
appropriated for construction projects of the Central Intelligence 
Agency, which are transferred to another Agency for execution, shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 8105. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, monetary 
limitations on the purchase price of a passenger motor vehicle shall not 
apply to vehicles purchased for intelligence activities conducted 
pursuant to Executive Order 12333 or successor orders.
    Sec. 8106. None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for obligation 
beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for the 
Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain available until September 
30, 1995.


                            (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8107. During the current fiscal year and thereafter, no funds 
may be made available through transfer, reprogramming, or other means 
between the Central Intelligence Agency and the Department of Defense 
for any intelligence or special activity different from that previously 
justified to the Congress unless the Director of Central Intelligence or 
the Secretary of Defense has notified the House and Senate 
Appropriations Committees of the intent to make such funds available for 
such activity.
    Sec. 8108. The classified annex prepared by the Committee on 
Appropriations to accompany the report on the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1994 is hereby incorporated into this Act: Provided, 
That the amounts specified in the classified Annex are not in addition 
to amounts appropriated by other provisions of this Act: Provided 
further, That the President shall provide for appropriate distribution 
of the classified Annex, or of appropriate portions of the classified 
Annex, within the executive branch of the Government.
    Sec. 8109. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act for the Defense Intelligence Agency may be used 
for the design, development, and deployment of General Defense 
Intelligence Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
information systems for the Services, the Unified and Specified 
Commands, and the component commands.
    Sec. 8110. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for the planning, programming or actual movement of any 
component or function of the Defense Mapping Agency Aerospace Center 
annex from the St. Louis, Missouri, area.


                       (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8111. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, $21,700,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense and shall be available only for transfer to the 
United States Coast Guard for a 2.2 percent pay increase for uniformed 
members.
    Sec. 8112. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and in 
accordance with section 2905 of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
Act of 1990, Public Law 101-510, the Department of Defense shall proceed 
with implementation of the 1993 Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
Commission recommendation concerning the consolidation of tactical 
missile maintenance at Letterkenny Army Depot.
    Sec. 8113. In addition to amounts appropriated elsewhere in this 
Act, $200,000 shall be available only for settlement of claims and 
interest thereon, associated with contract numbered N62474-86-C-0253 for 
construction of a multipurpose range complex at the Marine Corps Air 
Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, California: Provided, That 
such settlement shall be made pursuant to the recommendation of August 
19, 1993, of the Comptroller General of the United States (case B-
230871.3): Provided further, That such settlement shall be accomplished 
within thirty days of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8114. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 1993 and fiscal year 1994 for the 
DDG-51 destroyer program shall be obligated or expended for procurement 
of the ring laser gyroscope inertial navigation system under a sole 
source contract.
    Sec. 8115. The Secretary of the Navy shall carry out the 
establishment of the Mine Warfare Center of Excellence at the naval 
station at Ingleside, Texas (including the establishment of all 
subordinate units and the relocation of Navy mine warfare forces), in 
accordance with the schedule of the Navy for the establishment of such 
center and without regard to any alteration in that schedule that would 
otherwise be required pursuant to any other provision of law enacted 
during the first session of the 103d Congress that applies specifically 
to the construction and operation of that center or to the relocation of 
Navy mine warfare forces to Ingleside, Texas.
    Sec. 8115A. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to begin closing a military treatment facility unless the Secretary of 
Defense notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate ninety days prior to such action.
    Sec. 8116. Unobligated balances of the funds appropriated in Public 
Law 102-172 and Public Law 102-396 under the headings ``World University 
Games'', ``Summer Olympics'' and ``World Cup USA 1994'' in title II of 
those Acts shall, notwithstanding any other section of those Acts, 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1995.
    Sec. 8116A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
reimbursements received from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for 
the E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) Radar System 
Improvement Program (RSIP) attributable to development work for fiscal 
years 1987 through 1992 shall be available to the Air Force until 
September 30, 1994, for meeting that service's financial commitments for 
the AWACS RSIP.
    Sec. 8117. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transport or provide for the 
transportation of chemical munitions to the Johnston Atoll for the 
purpose of storing or demilitarizing such munitions.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
obsolete World War II chemical munition of the United States found in 
the World War II Pacific Theater of Operations.
    (c) The President may suspend the application of subsection (a) 
during a period of war in which the United States is a party.
    Sec. 8118. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be used to support the relocation of P-3 aircraft squadrons or other 
aircraft or units from the Naval Air Station at Barbers Point, Hawaii 
unless such relocation was specifically stated in the 1993 Report to the 
President of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission.
    Sec. 8119. The Secretary of Defense is authorized to use, for 
foreign military sales otherwise authorized under Chapter 39, title 22, 
United States Code, or for transfer to United States Army, Army National 
Guard, or Army Reserves, articles and services procured for the 
implementation of the Italian air defense agreements: Provided, That the 
term ``Italian air defense agreements'' has the meaning given such term 
in section 1050 of Public Law 102-190 (105 Stat. 1469): Provided 
further, That upon notification of the Government of the United States 
by the Government of Italy of its desire to withdraw from the Italian 
air defense agreement or 180 days from the enactment of this Act, 
section 1050 of Public Law 102-190 (105 Stat. 1469) is repealed.
    Sec. 8119A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds and 
credits received from the contractor under contract warranties for the 
failure of the first ultra high frequency follow-on satellite shall no 
longer be available for a replacement ultra high frequency satellite but 
shall be made available to finance a replacement extremely high 
frequency satellite and its launch.


                            (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8120. Upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall make the following transfers of funds: Provided, That the amounts 
transferred shall be available for the same purposes as the 
appropriations to which transferred, and for the same time period as the 
appropriation from which transferred: Provided further, That the amounts 
shall be transferred between the following appropriations in the amounts 
specified:
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation, Navy, 1993/1994'', $3,459,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1986/1990'':
                MHC coastal mine hunter program, $3,459,000;
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation, Navy, 1993/1994'', $42,936,000;
            Under the heading, ``Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation, Air Force, 1993/1994'', $55,500,000;
            Under the heading, ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1992/
        1994'', $8,000,000;
            Under the heading, ``National Guard and Reserve Equipment, 
        1992/1994'', $3,400,000;
            Under the heading, ``National Guard and Reserve Equipment, 
        1993/1995'', $3,618,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1988/1992'':
                SSN-688 attack submarine program, $26,596,000;
                CVN nuclear aircraft carrier program, $83,600,000;
                LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $3,258,000;
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1992/
        1994'', $57,600,000;
            Under the heading, ``Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1992/1994'', 
        $36,000,000;
            Under the heading, ``Other Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', 
        $66,756,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1989/1993'':
                TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, 
            $11,655,000;
                SSN-688 attack submarine program, $26,972,000;
                SSN-21 attack submarine program, $40,800,000;
                DDG-51 destroyer program, $71,500,000;
                MHC coastal mine hunter program, $9,429,000;
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1990/1994'':
                AOE combat support ship program, $3,505,000;
                Oceanographic ship program, $538,000;
                Craft, outfitting, post delivery, and ship special 
            support equipment, $994,000;
            Under the heading, ``Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', 
        $49,868,000;
            Under the heading, ``Other Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', 
        $58,456,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1990/1994'':
                TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, $7,241,000;
                DDG-51 destroyer program, $40,100,000;
                MCM mine countermeasures program, $7,564,000;
                T-AGOS surveillance ship program, $58,456,000;
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/
        1995'', $45,700,000;
            Under the heading, ``National Guard and Reserve Equipment, 
        1993/1995'', $29,282,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1991/1995'':
                Craft, outfitting, post delivery, and special support 
            equipment, $3,806,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1992/1996'':
                DDG-51 destroyer program, $41,800,000;
                Craft, outfitting, post delivery, and DBOF transfer, 
            $2,560,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1992/1995'':
                T-AO fleet oiler program, $27,000,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1994'':
                T-AO fleet oiler program, $13,000,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1996'':
                T-AO fleet oiler program, $12,129,000;
            Under the heading, ``Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', 
        $55,932,000;
            Under the heading, ``Other procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', 
        $38,062,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1991/1995'':
                SSN-21 attack submarine program, $237,971,000;
                DDG-51 destroyer program, $31,300,000;
        From:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1996'':
                T-AO fleet oiler program, $31,371,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1993/1997'':
                DDG-51 destroyer program, $14,400,000;
                Refueling overhauls, $909,000;
                MHC coastal mine hunter program, $9,343,000;
                Craft, outfitting, post delivery, and first destination 
            transportation, and inflation adjustments, $45,177,000;
        To:
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1987/1991'':
                AO conversion program, $256,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1988/1992'':
                LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, $28,250,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1989/1993'':
                T-AO fleet oiler program, $14,184,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1990/1994'':
                LSD-41 dock landing ship cargo variant program, 
            $30,300,000;
                Oceanographic ship program, $410,000;
            Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 
        1991/1995'':
                LSD-41 dock landing ship cargo variant program, 
            $27,800,000.
    Sec. 8120A. The provision in Public Law 102-396 requiring that not 
less than $55,500,000 be made available only for the Space Nuclear 
Thermal Propulsion Program is hereby repealed.
    Sec. 8121. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this Act for the upgrade, purchase, or modernization of 
supercomputing capability and capacity under the High Performance 
Computing Modernization program shall only be available for contracts, 
contract modifications, or contract options which are awarded as the 
result of open competition based upon the requirements of the users 
without regard to the architecture or design of the supercomputer 
system.
    Sec. 8122. Amounts collected for the use of the facilities of the 
National Science Center for Communications and Electronics during the 
current fiscal year pursuant to section 1459(g) of the Department of 
Defense Authorization Act, 1986 and deposited to the special account 
established under subsection 1459(g)(2) of that Act are appropriated and 
shall be available until expended for the operation and maintenance of 
the Center as provided for in subsection 1459(g)(2).
    Sec. 8123. The Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central 
Intelligence shall deliver, in conjunction with the fiscal year 1995 
budget request, a report providing the following information about all 
research and development projects involving the implementation, 
monitoring, or verification of current and projected international arms 
control agreements: (a) annual and total budgets, goals, schedules, and 
priorities; (b) relationships among related projects being funded by the 
Department of Defense, the National Foreign Intelligence Program, and 
other departments and agencies of the Federal Government; and (c) 
comments by the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency about the relevance 
of each project to the arms control priorities of the United States.
    Sec. 8124. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be used for the 
purchase of a totally enclosed lifeboat survival system, which consists 
of the lifeboat and associated davits and winches, if less than 50 
percent of the entire system's components are manufactured in the United 
States, and if less than 50 percent of the labor in the manufacture and 
assembly of the entire system is performed in the United States.
    Sec. 8125. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
(1) to transfer to the United Nations a facility in the continental 
United States for use as a United Nations peacekeeping facility, or (2) 
for the renovation of such a facility in preparation for such a 
transfer.
    Sec. 8126. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended by an entity of the Department of Defense unless the entity, in 
expending the funds, complies with the Buy American Act. For purposes of 
this subsection, the term ``Buy American Act'' means title III of the 
Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Treasury and Post 
Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, and for 
other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person has been 
convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription to any product sold in or shipped to the United 
States that is not made in America, the Secretary shall determine, in 
accordance with section 2410f of title 10, United States Code, whether 
the person should be debarred from contracting with the Department of 
Defense.
    Sec. 8127. In the case of members who separate from active duty or 
full-time National Guard duty in a military department pursuant to a 
Special Separation Benefits program (10 U.S.C. Sec. 1174a) or a 
Voluntary Separation Incentive program (10 U.S.C. Sec. 1175) at any time 
after the enactment of this Act, the separation payments paid such 
members who are also paid any bonus provided for in chapter 5, title 37, 
United States Code, during the same years in which they separate shall 
be reduced (but in no event to an amount less than zero) by an amount 
equal to any such bonus: Provided, That any future bonus payments to 
which such members would otherwise be entitled are rescinded: Provided 
further, That this measure will not apply to members who separate during 
the last year of a bonus paid pursuant to chapter 5, title 37, United 
States Code: Provided further, That civilian employees of the Department 
of Defense are prohibited from receiving voluntary separation payments 
if such employees are rehired by another agency of the Federal 
Government within one hundred and eighty days of separating from the 
Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8128. Under the heading ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'' in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 
(Public Law 102-396), delete the final proviso and insert in lieu 
thereof: ``: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, $4,000,000 shall be used only for a grant to the Assistive 
Technology Center at the National Rehabilitation Hospital for laboratory 
and other efforts associated with research and development and other 
programs of major importance to the Department of Defense''.
    Sec. 8129. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
in this Act shall be used by the Secretary of a military department to 
purchase coal or coke from foreign nations for use at United States 
defense facilities in Europe when coal from the United States is 
available.
    Sec. 8130. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for a defense technology reinvestment 
project that is not selected pursuant to the applicable competitive 
selection and other procedures set forth in chapter 148 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 8131. The appropriation, ``Emergency Response Fund, Defense'' 
made under the heading ``Emergency Response Fund'' by the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-165) is amended by 
inserting the following immediately after the third sentence: ``In 
addition to the foregoing, upon a determination by the Secretary of 
Defense that such action is necessary, the Fund may be used, in addition 
to other funds available to the Department of Defense for such purposes, 
for expenses of the Department of Defense which are incurred in 
supplying supplies or services furnished in response to natural or 
manmade disasters.''.
    Sec. 8132. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for a contract for studies, analyses, or consulting services 
entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited proposal 
unless the head of the activity responsible for the procurement 
determines:
        (1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, only one 
    source is found fully qualified to perform the proposed work, or
        (2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an unsolicited 
    proposal which offers significant scientific or technological 
    promise, represents the product of original thinking, and was 
    submitted in confidence by one source, or
        (3) the purpose of the contract is to take advantage of unique 
    and significant industrial accomplishment by a specific concern, or 
    to insure that a new product or idea of a specific concern is given 
    financial support:
Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to contracts in an amount 
of less than $25,000, contracts related to improvements of equipment 
that is in development or production, or contracts as to which a 
civilian official of the Department of Defense, who has been confirmed 
by the Senate, determines that the award of such contract is in the 
interest of the national defense.
    Sec. 8133. Not later than January 1, 1994, the Secretary of the Navy 
shall transfer, without reimbursement, to the Secretary of State a tract 
of land consisting of approximately 10 acres, together with improvements 
thereon, which comprise that portion of the Naval Base, Charleston, 
South Carolina, bounded by Bainbridge Avenue, Holland Street, and Dyess 
Avenue and known as buildings 646, 646A, 647, 643, 645, and 649, 
excluding building 644, and all walkways and parking areas associated 
with such buildings: Provided, That the real property transferred 
pursuant to this section shall be used by the Secretary of State in 
support of diplomatic and consular operations: Provided further, That 
the exact acreage and legal description of the property to be 
transferred under this section shall be determined by a survey approved 
by the Secretary of the Navy.
    Sec. 8134. (a)(1) The Secretary of Defense shall pay a death 
gratuity under this section to each beneficiary under a Servicemen's 
Group Life Insurance policy in the case of each deceased member of the 
uniformed services described in paragraph (2).
    (2) This section applies with respect to any member of the uniformed 
services--
        (A) who died on or after October 29, 1992 (the date of the 
    enactment of the Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-
    568)), and before December 1, 1992 (the effective date of amendments 
    made by title II of the Act, relating to veterans' life insurance 
    programs); and
        (B) whose death was in performance of duty.
    (b)(1) The amount of the death gratuity payable to a beneficiary 
under this section shall be equal to the amount of the life insurance 
proceeds paid or payable to that beneficiary under section 1967(a) of 
title 38, United States Code, by reason of death of such member.
    (2) In the case of a deceased member of the uniformed services who, 
before death, affirmatively elected, in writing, to apply for an 
increase in SGLI coverage in an amount less than $100,000 under 
subsection (e) of section 1967 of title 38, United States Code, the 
death gratuity paid under this section shall be equal to the amount of 
the increase so elected.
    (c) A death gratuity may not be paid under this section if the 
deceased member, before death, affirmatively elected, in writing, to 
apply for increased SGLI coverage under subsection (e) of section 1967 
of title 38, United States Code, and, by reason of a provision of law 
enacted after October 29, 1992, insurance is payable pursuant to that 
election.
    (d) A death gratuity shall be payable under this section to an SGLI 
beneficiary upon receipt of a written application for the payment of 
such gratuity. Any such application must be received by the Secretary of 
Defense not later than September 30, 1994.
    (e) In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated in this Act, the 
amount of $5,300,000 is hereby appropriated for, and shall be available 
only for, the payment of death gratuities under this section. Funds 
provided under this section shall remain available until expended for 
any valid claims received by the Secretary of Defense not later than 
September 30, 1994.


                               (rescissions)

    Sec. 8135. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts:
        ``Aircraft Procurement, Army, 1993/1995'', $42,700,000;
        ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army, 1992/1994'', $30,181,000;
        ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army, 1993/1995'', $52,480,000;
        ``Other Procurement, Army 1992/1994'', $4,000,000;
        ``Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1992/1994'', $15,000,000;
        ``Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', $7,500,000;
        ``Other Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', $26,600,000;
        ``Procurement, Marine Corps, 1992/1994'', $8,274,000;
        ``Procurement, Marine Corps, 1993/1995'', $6,508,000;
        ``Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1993/1995'', $6,000,000;
        ``Other Procurement, Air Force, 1993/1995'', $13,706,000;
        ``Other Procurement, Air Force, 1992/1994'', $17,276,000;
        ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force, 1993/
    1994'', $51,000,000.
    Sec. 8136. Not later than May 1, 1994, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition shall submit to the Congressional defense 
committees the complete results of an independent study of options for 
accomplishing the functions now performed by the Defense Nuclear Agency 
(DNA): Provided, That of the total amounts available to the Department 
of Defense for financing the activities of defense federally funded 
research and development centers during fiscal year 1994, $1,000,000 
shall be made available within 30 days after the enactment of this Act 
for the purposes of the aforementioned study.
    Sec. 8137. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within 30 
days from the enactment of this Act, the Department of the Navy shall 
select and take possession of either LCU-1540 or LCU-1549 from the 
General Services Administration: Provided, That the Navy shall modify or 
have modified the selected vessel utilizing commercial standards that 
meet United States Coast Guard certification requirements as safe to 
operate in open ocean as a cargo vessel: Provided further, That upon 
completion of all modifications and certification by the United States 
Coast Guard, the Navy shall immediately transfer title of the vessel, at 
no cost, to the government of American Samoa: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated in this Act in title II, Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy, $1,500,000 shall be available for this purpose: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
available to the Department of Defense shall be made available to 
provide transportation of medical supplies and equipment, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, to American Samoa.
    Sec. 8138. (a) It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense should not prohibit any military 
    installation described in subsection (b) from bidding on or 
    performing Department of Defense contracts for overhaul services or 
    for depot-level maintenance of material for the Armed Forces that 
    are awarded using competitive procedures;
        (2) performance of such a contract by such a military 
    installation should not affect the schedule for closure of the 
    installation;
        (3) such a contract should not be entered into for the 
    performance of work at such an installation if the time necessary 
    for performance of the contract extends beyond the date established 
    for closure of the installation or if the performance of the 
    contract at the installation would otherwise affect the schedule for 
    closure of the installation; and
        (4) such a contract awarded to a military installation should be 
    terminated for default if the contract is not completed on or before 
    the completion date provided in the contract.
    (b) A military installation referred to in subsection (a) is a 
military installation that (1) has been approved for closure subject to 
the provisions of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 
(part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510), (2) is in the process of 
implementing a conversion or reuse strategy for the installation to take 
effect upon closure, and (3) has received some funds from the Department 
of Defense for the purpose of implementing the conversion or reuse 
strategy.
    Sec. 8139. It is the sense of the Congress that operators of 
industrial facilities at military installations closed after the date of 
the enactment of this Act should be permitted to qualify as offerors for 
(1) proposed Department of Defense contracts for overhaul services for 
the Armed Forces, and (2) proposed Department of Defense contracts for 
depot-level maintenance of material for the Armed Forces.
    Sec. 8140. It is the sense of the Senate that the Government of the 
United States and the Government of Saudi Arabia should work diligently 
and without delay to resolve satisfactorily the outstanding commercial 
disputes identified in the Department of Commerce letter; date May 27, 
1992: Provided, That not later than February 1, 1994, the Secretary of 
Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of State and the 
Secretary of Commerce, shall submit a report to the Congress on the 
status of the process for the resolution of commercial disputes in Saudi 
Arabia and the prognosis for any of the disputes which remain 
unresolved.
    Sec. 8141. It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (a) the Secretary of the Air Force consider the comments of the 
    appropriate representatives of the Duck Valley Reservation of the 
    Shoshone-Paiute Tribes in making decisions on use of airspace above 
    such reservation,
        (b) the interests of the Duck Valley Reservation of the 
    Shoshone-Paiute Tribes receive the appropriate consideration under 
    any pending or future National Environmental Policy Act process 
    involving airspace over Duck Valley Reservation, and
        (c) to the extent practicable, airspace used for military 
    training flights below 15,000 feet above ground level over the Duck 
    Valley Reservation shall be over uninhabited areas of the 
    Reservation.
    Sec. 8142. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, for purposes of 
section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the President should 
declare that service in Somalia during the period described in 
subsection (b) should be treated as service in a combat zone.
    (b) The period referred to in subsection (a) is the period beginning 
on December 10, 1992, and ending on the date on which withdrawal from 
Somalia of all forces of the Armed Forces of the United States in 
Somalia has been completed, as declared in a proclamation issued by the 
President.
    Sec. 8143. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Navy shall obligate the funds appropriated for fiscal years 1992 
and 1993 for the USH-42 Mission Recorder program within the A-6 aircraft 
program: Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy verifies that the 
mission recorder is required in the future for Navy aircraft for 
peacetime training and bomb damage assessment in combat: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall make this verification within thirty 
days of this Act becoming law: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall obligate such funds within thirty days of this verification that 
the mission recorder is required in Navy aircraft for peacetime training 
and bomb damage assessment in combat.
    Sec. 8144. The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
report containing information on the cost to the United States of 
transporting supplies for the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps by 
sea on United States-flag commercial vessels pursuant to the cargo 
preference laws of the United States, including the amount of the cost 
savings that could have been realized if such supplies had been 
transported at competitive international shipping rates available from 
non-cargo preference vessels, the subsidization of foreign-flag vessels, 
and the impact on the viability of the United States merchant marine if 
the cargo preference requirements were ended. The report shall cover a 
cargo preference year which shall be a 12-month period defined by the 
Secretary.
    Sec. 8145. None of the funds appropriated for the Department of 
Defense for fiscal year 1994 by this Act may be used for making any 
progress payment under the C-17 aircraft program that is not consistent 
with the requirements of section 2307(d)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8146. (a) It is the sense of Congress that none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act should be available 
for the purposes of deploying United States Armed Forces to participate 
in the implementation of a peace settlement in Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
unless previously authorized by the Congress.
    (b) It is the sense of Congress that the limitation set forth in 
subsection (a) should not preclude missions and operations initiated on 
or before October 20, 1993, including the provision of any humanitarian 
assistance by the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8147. Sense of Congress on the Use of Funds for United States 
Military Operations in Haiti.--(a) Statement of Policy.--It is the sense 
of the Congress that--
        (1) all parties should honor their obligations under the 
    Governors Island Accord of July 3, 1993 and the New York Pact of 
    July 16, 1993;
        (2) the United States has a national interest in preventing 
    uncontrolled emigration from Haiti; and
        (3) the United States should remain engaged in Haiti to support 
    national reconciliation and further its interest in preventing 
    uncontrolled emigration.
    (b) Limitation.--It is the sense of Congress that funds appropriated 
by this Act should not be obligated or expended for United States 
military operations in Haiti unless--
        (1) authorized in advance by the Congress; or
        (2) the temporary deployment of United States Armed Forces into 
    Haiti is necessary in order to protect or evacuate United States 
    citizens from a situation of imminent danger and the President 
    reports as soon as practicable to Congress after the initiation of 
    the temporary deployment, but in no case later than forty-eight 
    hours after the initiation of the temporary deployment; or
        (3) the deployment of United States Armed Forces into Haiti is 
    vital to the national security interests of the United States, 
    including but not limited to the protection of American citizens in 
    Haiti, there is not sufficient time to seek and receive 
    Congressional authorization, and the President reports as soon as 
    practicable to Congress after the initiation of the deployment, but 
    in no case later than forty-eight hours after the initiation of the 
    deployment; or
        (4) the President transmits to the Congress a written report 
    pursuant to subsection (c).
    (c) Report.--It is the sense of Congress that the limitation in 
subsection (b) should not apply if the President reports in advance to 
Congress that the intended deployment of United States Armed Forces into 
Haiti--
        (1) is justified by United States national security interests;
        (2) will be undertaken only after necessary steps have been 
    taken to ensure the safety and security of United States Armed 
    Forces, including steps to ensure that United States Armed Forces 
    will not become targets due to the nature of their rules of 
    engagement;
        (3) will be undertaken only after an assessment that--
            (A) the proposed mission and objectives are most appropriate 
        for the United States Armed Forces rather than civilian 
        personnel or armed forces from other nations, and
            (B) that the United States Armed Forces proposed for 
        deployment are necessary and sufficient to accomplish the 
        objectives of the proposed mission;
        (4) will be undertaken only after clear objectives for the 
    deployment are established;
        (5) will be undertaken only after an exit strategy for ending 
    the deployment has been identified; and
        (6) will be undertaken only after the financial costs of the 
    deployment are estimated.
    (d) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``United States 
military operations in Haiti'' means the continued deployment, 
introduction or reintroduction of United States Armed Forces into the 
land territory of Haiti, irrespective of whether those Armed Forces are 
under United States or United Nations command, but does not include 
activities for the collection of foreign intelligence, activities 
directly related to the operations of United States diplomatic or other 
United States Government facilities, or operations to counter emigration 
from Haiti.
    Sec. 8148. Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred to 
any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose of 
implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance agreement 
pursuant to section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2301 note), as amended, 
under the authority of this provision or any other transfer authority 
contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8149. Funding appropriated under the heading ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' for increasing energy and water efficiency 
in Federal buildings may be transferred to other appropriations or funds 
of the Department of Defense, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 8150. Upon approval by the Secretary of the Navy, clause (2) of 
section 7308(c) of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply with 
respect to the transfer of the USS Blueback by the Secretary of the Navy 
under section 7308(a) of such title.
    Sec. 8151. (a) The Congress finds that--
        (1) the United States entered into Operation Restore Hope in 
    December of 1992 for the purpose of relieving mass starvation in 
    Somalia;
        (2) the original mission in Somalia, to secure the environment 
    for humanitarian relief, had the unanimous support of the Senate, 
    expressed in Senate Joint Resolution 45, passed on February 4, 1993, 
    and was endorsed by the House when it amended S.J. Res. 45 on May 
    25, 1993;
        (3) Operation Restore Hope was being successfully accomplished 
    by United States forces, working with forces of other nations, when 
    it was replaced by the UNOSOM II mission, assumed by the United 
    Nations on May 4, 1993, pursuant to United Nations Resolution 814 of 
    March 26, 1993;
        (4) neither the expanded United Nations mission of national 
    reconciliation, nor the broad mission of disarming the clans, nor 
    any other mission not essential to the performance of the 
    humanitarian mission has been endorsed or approved by the Senate;
        (5) the expanded mission of the United Nations was, subsequent 
    to an attack upon United Nations forces, diverted into a mission 
    aimed primarily at capturing certain persons, pursuant to United 
    Nations Security Council Resolution 837, of June 6, 1993;
        (6) the actions of hostile elements in Mogadishu, and the United 
    Nations mission to subdue those elements, have resulted in open 
    conflict in the city of Mogadishu and the deaths of 29 Americans, at 
    least 159 wounded, and the capture of American personnel; and
        (7) during fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the United States 
    incurred expenses in excess of $1,100,000,000 to support operations 
    in Somalia.
    (b) The Congress approves the use of United States Armed Forces in 
Somalia for the following purposes:
        (1) The protection of United States personnel and bases; and
        (2) The provision of assistance in securing open lines of 
    communication for the free flow of supplies and relief operations 
    through the provision of--
            (A) United States military logistical support services to 
        United Nations forces; and
            (B) United States combat forces in a security role and as an 
        interim force protection supplement to United Nations units: 
        Provided, That funds appropriated, or otherwise made available, 
        in this or any other Act to the Department of Defense may be 
        obligated for expenses incurred only through March 31, 1994, for 
        the operations of United States Armed Forces in Somalia: 
        Provided further, That such date may be extended if so requested 
        by the President and authorized by the Congress: Provided 
        further, That funds may be obligated beyond March 31, 1994 to 
        support a limited number of United States military personnel 
        sufficient only to protect American diplomatic facilities and 
        American citizens, and noncombat personnel to advise the United 
        Nations commander in Somalia: Provided further, That United 
        States combat forces in Somalia shall be under the command and 
        control of United States commanders under the ultimate direction 
        of the President of the United States: Provided further, That 
        the President should intensify efforts to have United Nations 
        member countries immediately deploy additional troops to Somalia 
        to fulfill previous force commitments made to the United Nations 
        and to deploy additional forces to assume the security missions 
        of United States Armed Forces: Provided further, That--
                (i) captured United States personnel in Somalia should 
            be treated humanely and fairly; and
                (ii) the United States and the United Nations should 
            make all appropriate efforts to ensure the immediate and 
            safe return of any future captured United States personnel: 
            Provided further, That the President should ensure that, at 
            all times, United States military personnel in Somalia have 
            the capacity to defend themselves, and American citizens: 
            Provided further, That the United States Armed Forces should 
            remain deployed in or around Somalia until such time as all 
            American service personnel missing in action in Somalia are 
            accounted for, and all American service personnel held 
            prisoner in Somalia are released: Provided further, That 
            nothing herein shall be deemed to restrict in any way the 
            authority of the President under the Constitution to protect 
            the lives of Americans.
    Sec. 8152. Funds appropriated by this Act for intelligence or 
intelligence-related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized 
by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act 
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 1994 until the enactment of 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 1994.
    Sec. 8153. (1) Except as provided in subsection (c) below, it is the 
sense of the Congress that none of the funds appropriated by this Act 
should be obligated or expended for costs incurred by the United States 
Armed Forces units serving in any international peacekeeping or peace-
enforcement operations under the authority of Chapter VI or Chapter VII 
of the United Nations Charter and under the authority of a United 
Nations Security Council Resolution, or for costs incurred by United 
States Armed Forces serving in any significant international 
humanitarian, peacekeeping or peace-enforcement operations, unless--
        (a) the President initiates consultations with the bi-partisan 
    leadership of Congress, including the leadership of the relevant 
    committees, regarding such operations; these consultations should be 
    initiated at least fifteen days prior to the initial deployment of 
    United States Armed Forces units to participate in such an 
    operation, whenever possible, but in no case later than forty-eight 
    hours after such a deployment; and these consultations should 
    continue on a periodic basis throughout the period of the 
    deployment;
        (b) such consultation should include discussion of--
            (1) the goals of the operation and the mission of any United 
        States Armed Forces units involved in the operation;
            (2) the United States' interests that will be served by the 
        operation;
            (3) the estimated cost of the operation;
            (4) the strategy by which the President proposes to fund the 
        operation, including possible supplemental appropriations or 
        payments from international organizations, foreign countries or 
        other donors;
            (5) the extent of involvement of armed forces and other 
        contributions of personnel from other nations;
            (6) the operation's anticipated duration and scope;
        (c) subsection (a) does not apply with respect to an 
    international humanitarian assistance operation carried out in 
    response to natural disasters; or to any other international 
    humanitarian assistance operation if the President reports to 
    Congress that the estimated cost of such operation is less than 
    $50,000,000.
    (2) Further, it is the sense of the Congress--
        (a) that the President should seek a supplemental appropriation 
    to defray the costs of United States military operations in Somalia 
    in order to restore needed operation and maintenance funds for 
    United States Armed Forces;
        (b) that the President should seek supplemental appropriations 
    for any significant future deployment of United States Armed Forces 
    when such forces are to perform or have been performing 
    international humanitarian, peacekeeping or peace-enforcement 
    operations.
    Sec. 8154. The Department shall ensure that the A-6 rewing contracts 
are terminated this fiscal year: Provided, That none of the funds 
recouped by the Department through the termination of the A-6 rewing 
program shall be available for obligation or expenditure during this 
fiscal year.
    Sec. 8155. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
shall be available to make progress payments based on costs to large 
business concerns at rates in excess of 75 percent on contract 
solicitations issued after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8156. Not to exceed $100,000,000 of the funds provided in this 
Act may be made available for payment to non-United States government 
entities for logistical support of Somalia operations: Provided, That 
the Congressional Defense Committees are notified in advance of any 
obligations providing such support: Provided further, That any funds 
obligated pursuant to this authority shall be reimbursed by the United 
Nations to the Department of Defense to the originating appropriations.

                                TITLE IX

    Sec. 9001. Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The Armed Forces of the United States have conducted combat 
    operations under the operational control of foreign commanders on 
    numerous occasions, including during two World Wars.
        (2) Regional security organizations, such as the North Atlantic 
    Treaty Organization, are premised on military operations by the 
    forces of a number of nations under an integrated chain of command 
    consisting of officers from member nations.
        (3) The end of the Cold War has seen a substantial increase in 
    the conduct of international ``peacekeeping'' and ``peace 
    enforcement'' operations pursuant to decisions of the United Nations 
    Security Council under Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations 
    Charter.
        (4) The United Nations has conducted traditional 
    ``peacekeeping'' operations successfully over the years, but the 
    number and size of such operations has stretched the Organization's 
    management and oversight capabilities thin.
        (5) The United Nations has not yet acquired the expertise or 
    infrastructure to enable it to effectively manage ``peace 
    enforcement'' operations.
        (6) Any special agreement negotiated by the President with the 
    United Nations Security Council to make units of the United States 
    Armed Forces available on call to the United Nations must be 
    approved by the Congress pursuant to the United Nations 
    Participation Act, enacted into law in 1945.
        (7) Any decision by the President to place combat forces of the 
    Armed Forces of the United States under the operational control of 
    foreign commanders, other than pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty 
    and other arrangements in effect at the time of the enactment of 
    this Act, has significant consequences for such forces, the 
    Congress, and the American people.
    Sec. 9002. It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the Armed Forces of the United States must be under the 
    operational control of qualified commanders; and must have clear and 
    effective command and control arrangements; appropriate rules of 
    engagement; and clear and unambiguous mission statements;
        (2) the President should consult with Congress before placing 
    combat forces of the Armed Forces of the United States under the 
    operational control of foreign commanders, other than pursuant to 
    the North Atlantic Treaty and other arrangements in effect at the 
    time of the enactment of this Act; and
        (3) the President should submit a report to Congress within 48 
    hours after placing combat forces of the Armed Forces of the United 
    States under the operational control of foreign commanders, other 
    than pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty and other arrangements in 
    effect at the time of the enactment of this Act, setting forth--
            (A) the mission of such forces and a clear explanation of 
        the difference, if any, between the mission of such forces and 
        the mission of the forces of other nations participating in the 
        same military operations;
            (B) in a case in which the operation is conducted under the 
        auspices of the United Nations, an assessment of the United 
        Nations capability to effectively manage the operation;
            (C) an explanation of the United States interest that would 
        be served by and the justification for placing such forces under 
        the operational control of a foreign commander in this instance;
            (D) the command and control arrangements for the operation 
        of which the forces of the Armed Forces of the United States are 
        a part;
            (E) the number, type and general description of equipment of 
        such forces;
            (F) the estimated cost to the United States of the 
        participation of such forces;
            (G) the anticipated duration of the participation of such 
        forces;
            (H) a general description of the rules of engagement for 
        such forces; and
            (I) the foreign commander or commanders involved.

                                 TITLE X


      CONVEYANCE OF KAHO'OLAWE ISLAND, HAWAII, TO THE STATE OF HAWAII

    Sec. 10001. (a) Purpose.--It is timely and in the interest of the 
United States to recognize and fulfill the commitments made on behalf of 
the United States to the people of Hawaii and to return to the State of 
Hawaii the Island of Kaho'olawe. Kaho'olawe Island is among Hawaii's 
historic lands and has a long, documented history of cultural and 
natural significance to the people of Hawaii reflected, in part, in the 
Island's inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places and in 
the longstanding interest in the return of the Island to State 
sovereignty, public access and use. Congress finds that control, 
disposition, use and management of Kaho'olawe is affected with a Federal 
interest. It also is in the national interest and an obligation 
undertaken by Congress and the United States under this and other Acts, 
and in furtherance of the purposes of Executive Order 10436 (1953), to 
recognize the cultural and humanitarian value of assuring meaningful, 
safe use of the Island for appropriate cultural, historical, 
archaeological and educational purposes as determined by the State of 
Hawaii and to provide for the clearance or removal of unexploded 
ordnance and for the environmental restoration of the Island for such 
purposes. Congress also finds it is in the national interest and an 
essential element in the Federal Government's relationship with the 
State of Hawaii to ensure that the conveyance, clearance or removal of 
unexploded ordnance, environmental restoration, control of access to the 
Island and future use of the Island be undertaken in a manner consistent 
with the enhancement of that relationship, the Department of Defense's 
military mission, the Federal interest and applicable provisions of law.
    (b) Conveyance.--Subject to section 10001(e) of this Act, the United 
States, through the Secretary of the Navy (also, hereinafter, ``the 
Secretary''), shall, notwithstanding section 120(h) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9620 (h)) convey and return, without consideration and without 
conditions other than those set forth in or required by this Act, to the 
State of Hawaii all right, title and interest of the United States, 
except that interest set forth in section 10001(d)(2) and section 
10001(e) of this Act, in and to that parcel of property consisting of 
approximately 28,776 acres of land known as Kaho'olawe Island, Hawaii 
and its surrounding waters. Such conveyance of title shall occur no 
later than one hundred eighty days from the date of enactment of this 
Act and the appropriation of funds for such purposes described in this 
Act.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the parcel of property to be conveyed under section 
10001(b) shall be determined by a survey that is deemed satisfactory by 
the State of Hawaii in consultation with the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey shall be borne by the Secretary, making use of funds provided 
pursuant to this Act.
    (d) Implementation.--(1) The Secretary shall carry out the 
requirements of this Act following consultation with the State of Hawaii 
as required by section 10002 of this Act and with the technical and 
logistical support, as needed, of the United States Army Corps of 
Engineers and other Federal agencies.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary 
shall retain the control of access to the Island, in consultation with 
the State of Hawaii and prior to and following the entering into force 
of the Memorandum of Understanding contained in section 10002 of this 
Act, until either clearance and restoration are completed or within no 
more than ten years after the date of enactment of this Act, whichever 
comes first, and control of access is transferred to the State of 
Hawaii, pursuant to such conditions.
    (e) Indemnification and the Control of Access.--(1) The Navy shall 
retain control of the access to the Island during the time period set 
forth in section 10001(d)(2) of this Act that it is undertaking 
unexploded ordnance removal and hazardous materials removal activities 
required in this Act.
    (2) During the time period the United States retains control of 
access to the Island, the United States shall hold harmless, defend and 
indemnify the State of Hawaii or its political subdivisions from and 
against all claims, demands, losses, damages, liens, liabilities, 
injuries, deaths, penalties, fines, lawsuits and other proceedings, 
judgments, awards and reasonable costs and expenses arising out of, or 
in any manner predicated upon, the presence, release or threatened 
release or any munitions, exploded or unexploded ordnance, solid waste 
associated with such ordnance or hazardous substance, pollutant or 
contaminant resulting from the activities of the Department of Defense, 
including the activities of the Department of the Navy and the 
Department of the Army and any agent, employee, lessee, licensee, 
independent contractor or other person on the property during such time 
that the property was and remains under the control of the Department of 
Defense, Navy, Army or other agencies of the United States Government. 
Notwithstanding this subsection or any other provision of law, response 
action contractors shall not be held harmless, defended or indemnified 
for activities under this title and activities of response action 
contractors are not included as activities of the Department of Defense 
under this subsection.
    The term ``response action contractor'' has the meaning given such 
term in section 119(e)(2) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9619(e)(2)), except 
that such term includes a person who enters into, and is carrying out, a 
contract to provide at a facility (including a facility not listed on 
the National Priorities List) a response action with respect to any 
release or threatened release from the facility of a hazardous substance 
or pollutant or contaminant, or a similar action with respect to 
petroleum or its derivatives.
    (3) Nothing in this Act is intended to alter or affect the Federal 
or State requirements of law governing liability following the transfer 
of control of access to the State of Hawaii, except that the United 
States shall remain liable for and retain responsibility for any 
environmental restoration, remediation, or corrective action required at 
the property conveyed in paragraph (b).


      COOPERATION OF FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS AND THE STATE OF HAWAII AND 
                      TRANSFER OF CONTROL OF ACCESS

    Sec. 10002. (a)(1) Upon the request of the Secretary or the State of 
Hawaii, and in accordance with existing laws and requirements, any 
department or agency of the Federal Government may provide assistance to 
the Secretary or the State of Hawaii, as the case may be, in carrying 
out their respective duties under this Act.
    (2) Within one hundred eighty days following passage of this Act, 
and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall 
consult with and enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the State 
of Hawaii governing the terms and conditions of (i) access to the Island 
for those purposes set forth in sections 10001 and 10002 of this Act and 
any other cultural, archeological, educational and planning purposes 
provided for in this title, giving due regard to the risk of harm to 
public health and the environment and safety involved in providing such 
access and the need to avoid interference with or disruption of the 
Navy's clearance, removal and remediation activities; (ii) the timing, 
planning, methodology and implementation of ordnance clearance or 
removal and hazardous substance clearance and other waste removal and 
the protection of historical, cultural and religious sites and 
artifacts: Provided, That all reasonable effort should be made to avoid 
harm to such sites and artifacts from the detonation of unexploded 
ordnance, clearance or removal of ordnance, and hazardous substance 
clearance; (iii) the establishment of a two-tiered standard of 
restoration and ordnance clearance, removal, restoration and safety, 
taking into account the purpose for which any geographic area will be 
used and the nature and purpose of human access to such area, but 
assuring the protection of human health and the environment; (iv) the 
means for protecting historical, cultural and religious sites and 
artifacts from intentional destruction, harm and vandalism; (v) public 
participation, as appropriate, including the opportunity for public 
comment and hearing; and (vi) the means for regular interval clean-ups 
and removal of newly discovered previously undetected ordnance by the 
Navy. Under any such terms and conditions, the Secretary shall be 
assured full and necessary access to carry out the obligations of the 
Secretary arising out of the responsibilities and liabilities of this 
title. Such terms and conditions shall remain in existence until the 
completion of the restoration and remediation activities required by 
section 10002 of this Act and be revised periodically by mutual consent 
and giving due regard to the importance of access to the Island as the 
level of clean-up, restoration and remediation moves toward attainment. 
Nothing in this title is intended to diminish or alter the rights and 
responsibilities of the Navy to allow access to the Island that existed 
prior to the enactment of this title.
    (3) The United States, through the Secretary of the Navy, shall 
transfer the control of access to the State of Hawaii within no more 
than ten years from the date of enactment of this Act or when the 
activities required by this Act, including ordnance clearance or removal 
activities and environmental remediation activities are completed, 
whichever comes first.
    (4) Notwithstanding the duties and obligations set forth in this 
title and notwithstanding the conveyance required under section 10001, 
the State of Hawaii shall not be liable or responsible for the conduct 
of any clean-up and response actions arising from and relating to the 
use, environmental clean-up and ordnance removal and remediation of 
Kaho'olawe Island and its adjacent waters.


       KAHO'OLAWE ISLAND CONVEYANCE, REMEDIATION, AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
                         RESTORATION TRUST FUND

    Sec. 10003. (a) There is established on the books of the Treasury of 
the United States a fund to be known as the ``Kaho'olawe Island 
Conveyance, Remediation, and Environmental Restoration Fund'' 
(hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the ``Fund''). The Fund 
shall be administered by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Fund shall 
be used for the accumulation of funds in order to pay the obligations 
incurred by the Secretary of the Navy or the Department of Defense in 
carrying out the purposes of this Act and for properly allocable costs 
of the Federal Government in the administration of the Fund.
    (b) There shall be deposited into the Fund the following, which 
shall constitute the assets of the Fund:
        (1) Amounts paid into the Fund from any source.
        (2) Any amount appropriated to the Fund.
        (3) Any return on investment of the assets of the Fund.
    (c) To the extent provided in appropriation Acts, the assets of the 
Fund shall be available for obligation by the Secretary of the Navy to 
carry out the purposes of this Act.
    (d) There is authorized to be appropriated into the Fund 
$400,000,000, which may be appropriated as a lump sum or in annual 
increments. Of the amounts deposited into the Fund, not less than 11 
percent shall be made available to the State of Hawaii to carry out the 
provisions of section 10002 of this Act.
    (e) Amounts appropriated to the Fund shall remain available until 
obligated or until the Fund is terminated.
    (f) Upon payment of all incremental costs associated with the 
purposes for which the Fund is established, the Fund shall be 
terminated.
    (g) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Secretary is 
authorized to provide $45,000,000 to the State of Hawaii for the purpose 
of long term planning and implementation by the State of (i) such long 
term planning, (ii) environmental restoration activities, and (iii) the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding 
required by section 10002 of this Act, concerning Kaho'olawe Island and 
its adjacent waters. Such funds as are provided by the Secretary for the 
purpose of carrying out this section shall be made available to the 
State by the Secretary from funds made available pursuant to this Act 
and shall be provided to the State of Hawaii.
    (h) Funds in addition to those provided pursuant to section 10003(g) 
may be provided to the State of Hawaii upon the submission of an 
acceptable plan containing the elements identified in 10003(g) of this 
Act and demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that such 
funds are necessary to the proper fulfillment of such elements and the 
purposes of this Act. The Secretary shall have sole discretion to award 
such additional funds, however, the award of such funds shall not be 
unreasonably withheld.


         ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS AND RELATED DISPUTE RESOLUTION

    Sec. 10004. (a) The Secretary shall submit annually a report, in 
detail, describing compliance with the provisions of this Act. Such 
report shall include the comments of the State of Hawaii and be 
submitted to the Defense Committees of Congress.
    (b) Federal courts shall have jurisdiction to enforce the terms, 
conditions and provisions of this Act, regarding the activities, duties, 
and responsibilities of the United States, its departments, agencies, 
and instrumentalities set forth in this Act and occurring on the Island 
of Kaho'olawe and in its adjacent waters. In any judicial review under 
this Act, the United States or the State, or both, if not a party may 
intervene as a matter of right. The United States, its departments, 
agencies and instrumentalities shall be subject to only such injunctive 
relief as may be imposed by the court to enforce compliance with the 
terms of this Act and the Memorandum of Understanding. Such compliance 
shall be enforced giving due regard to the need for expeditious clean-up 
under the terms and conditions of this Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.