[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1873 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1873

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To require certain payments made to victims of Nazi persecution to be 
disregarded in determining eligibility for and the amount of benefits or 
services based on need.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CERTAIN PAYMENTS MADE TO VICTIMS OF NAZI PERSECUTION 
              DISREGARDED IN DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR AND THE AMOUNT 
              OF NEED-BASED BENEFITS AND SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Payments made to individuals because of their 
status as victims of Nazi persecution shall be disregarded in 
determining eligibility for and the amount of benefits or services to 
be provided under any Federal or federally assisted program which 
provides benefits or services based, in whole or in part, on need.
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall apply to determinations 
made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to 
payments referred to in subsection (a) made before, on, or after such 
date.
    (c) Prohibition Against Recovery of Value of Excessive Benefits or 
Services Provided Due to Failure to Take Account of Certain Payments 
Made to Victims of Nazi Persecution.--No officer, agency, or 
instrumentality of any government may attempt to recover the value of 
excessive benefits or services provided before the date of the 
enactment of this Act under any program referred to in subsection (a) 
by reason of any failure to take account of payments referred to in 
subsection (a).
    (d) Notice to Individuals Who May Have Been Denied Eligibility for 
Benefits or Services Due to the Failure to Disregard Certain Payments 
Made to Victims of Nazi Persecution.--Any agency of government that has 
not disregarded payments referred to in subsection (a) in determining 
eligibility for a program referred to in subsection (a) shall make a 
good faith effort to notify any individual who may have been denied 
eligibility for benefits or services under the program of the potential 
eligibility of the individual for such benefits or services.
    (e) Repayment of Additional Rent Paid Under HUD Housing Programs 
Because of Failure to Disregard Reparation Payments.--
        (1) Authority.--To the extent that amounts are provided in 
    appropriation Acts for payments under this subsection, the 
    Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall make payments to 
    qualified individuals in the amount determined under paragraph (3).
        (2) Qualified individuals.--For purposes of this subsection, 
    the term ``qualified individual'' means an individual who--
            (A) has received any payment because of the individual's 
        status as a victim of Nazi persecution;
            (B) at any time during the period beginning on February 1, 
        1993 and ending on April 30, 1993, resided in a dwelling unit 
        in housing assisted under any program for housing assistance of 
        the Department of Housing and Urban Development under which 
        rent payments for the unit were determined based on or taking 
        into consideration the income of the occupant of the unit;
            (C) paid rent for such dwelling unit for any portion of the 
        period referred to in subparagraph (B) in an amount determined 
        in a manner that did not disregard the payment referred to in 
        subparagraph (A); and
            (D) has submitted a claim for payment under this subsection 
        as required under paragraph (4).
    The term does not include the successors, heirs, or estate of an 
    individual meeting the requirements of the preceding sentence.
        (3) Amount of payment.--The amount of a payment under this 
    subsection for a qualified individual shall be equal to the 
    difference between--
            (A) the sum of the amount of rent paid by the individual 
        for rental of the dwelling unit of the individual assisted 
        under a program for housing assistance of the Department of 
        Housing and Urban Development, for the period referred to in 
        paragraph (2)(B), and
            (B) the sum of the amount of rent that would have been 
        payable by the individual for rental of such dwelling unit for 
        such period if the payments referred to in paragraph (2)(A) 
        were disregarded in determining the amount of rent payable by 
        the individual for such period.
        (4) Submission of claims.--A payment under this subsection for 
    an individual may be made only pursuant to a written claim for such 
    payment by such individual submitted to the Secretary of Housing 
    and Urban Development in the form and manner required by the 
    Secretary before--
            (A) in the case of any individual notified by the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development orally or in 
        writing that such specific individual is eligible for a payment 
        under this subsection, the expiration of the 6-month period 
        beginning on the date of receipt of such notice; and
            (B) in the case of any other individual, the expiration of 
        the 12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.