[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2118 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2118
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1993,

                         and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, to provide supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993, and for other purposes, namely:

                                CHAPTER I

      DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
                  ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $4,000,000.

                      Commodity Credit Corporation


                            disaster assistance

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any Commodity Credit 
Corporation funds that were appropriated by Public Law 102-229 and 
Public Law 102-368 for losses of crop production in 1990, 1991, and 1992 
and that are unexpended as of the date of enactment of this Act shall be 
made available to producers of 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993 crops of 
agricultural commodities for losses of production due to the 
deterioration of the quality of such commodities caused by natural 
disasters, as determined by the Corporation prior to August 1, 1993, and 
for which the Secretary has received claims by August 1, 1993: Provided, 
That such funds shall also be made available to producers of the 1993 
crops of agricultural commodities for crop losses caused by natural 
disasters which occurred prior to August 1, 1993, and for which the 
Secretary has received claims by August 1, 1993: Provided further, That 
such funds shall also be made available to producers for 1993, 1994, and 
1995 crop losses if such losses are due to the occurrence of Hurricanes 
Andrew and Iniki and Typhoon Omar: Provided further, That such funds 
shall be made available under the same terms and conditions as 
authorized for 1990, 1991, and 1992 crop losses: Provided further, That 
no payments to producers under this Act shall be at a rate greater than 
the rate used in making payments under Public Law 102-229 and Public Law 
102-368: Provided further, That a producer who received a disaster 
payment, adjusted for quality losses, on the 1990, 1991, and 1992 crops, 
shall be ineligible to receive an additional disaster payment for the 
crop year for which the previous disaster payment was received, unless 
additional pro rata disaster payments are made: Provided further, That 
any such funds shall remain available until September 30, 1993: Provided 
further, That no funds may be used pursuant to the last clause of the 
fifth proviso of the appropriation for the Commodity Credit Corporation 
in Public Law 102-368: Provided further, That a curly top virus 
condition in sugar beets resulting from damaging weather or related 
condition that adversely affects the beets shall be an eligible disaster 
condition for purposes of assistance provided under this paragraph: 
Provided further, That funds previously made available for use by the 
Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service with respect to the 
provision of cost-share assistance under title IV of the Agricultural 
Credit Act of 1978 may be used for the rehabilitation of oyster beds 
that were damaged by Hurricane Andrew.

                        Soil Conservation Service


                 watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Watershed Protection 
Program'', $3,328,000.


                     Rural Development Administration

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
341, $9,587,000 are rescinded. Such funds were made available for 
salaries and expenses.


             rural development insurance fund program account

    For an additional amount for the ``Rural Development Insurance Fund 
Program Account'', for the cost of water and sewer direct loans, 
$35,543,000, to subsidize additional gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans not to exceed $250,000,000: Provided, That with 
regard to the funds provided herein, the Secretary may use 1980 United 
States Census information to determine the eligibility of loan 
applications submitted prior to the availability of 1990 United States 
Census information.


                   rural water and waste disposal grants

    For an additional amount for ``Rural Water and Waste Disposal 
Grants'', $35,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That with regard to the funds provided herein, the Secretary may use 
1980 United States Census information to determine the eligibility of 
grant applications submitted prior to the availability of 1990 United 
States Census information.

                       Farmers Home Administration


               rural housing insurance fund program account

                          (including rescissions)

    For an additional amount for the ``Rural Housing Insurance Fund 
Program Account'', $4,576,000 for the cost of guaranteed unsubsidized 
section 502 loans, for total loan principal not to exceed $250,000,000.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of low-
income housing section 502 direct loans in Public Law 102-341, 
$64,826,000 are rescinded.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of section 
515 rental housing loans in Public Law 102-341, $17,672,000 are 
rescinded.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of credit 
sales of acquired property in Public Law 102-341, $3,571,000 are 
rescinded.

                        rental assistance program

    For an additional amount for the ``Rental Assistance Program'', for 
expiring agreements and for servicing existing units without agreements, 
$66,287,000.


            agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                               (rescissions)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of direct 
farm ownership loans in Public Law 102-341, $2,317,000 are rescinded.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of direct 
operating loans in Public Law 102-341, $15,000,000 are rescinded.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of emergency 
insured loans in Public Law 102-341, $15,000,000 are rescinded.
    Of the amounts provided under this heading for the cost of credit 
sales of acquired property in Public Law 102-341, $3,511,000 are 
rescinded.


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-341, 
$15,000,000 are rescinded.


                 agricultural natural disaster assistance

                      (including transfers of funds)

    From amounts made available to the Farmers Home Administration in 
Public Law 102-368, the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer from the 
following accounts up to the specified maximum amounts as follows: 
Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account, $28,000,000; Rural 
Water and Waste Disposal Grants, $20,000,000; Emergency Community Water 
Assistance Grants, $5,000,000; and Rural Development Insurance Fund 
Program Account, $10,000,000. Such funds shall be available through the 
end of fiscal year 1994 for--
        (a) a program designed to reduce the interest rate on business 
    and industry guaranteed loans, whereby with respect to loans 
    guaranteed by the Secretary under which the rate of interest charged 
    by any legally organized lending institution (hereinafter 
    ``lender'') does not exceed by more than 100 basis points the prime 
    rate as defined by the Secretary, the Secretary may enter into a 
    contract with any such lender under which the lender will receive 
    payments in such amounts as will during the term of such contract 
    reduce the interest rate paid by a borrower by one percentage point: 
    Provided, That the borrower would otherwise be unable to make 
    payments on such loan when due;
        (b) permanent replacement of temporary migrant housing and 
    rental assistance under ``Rural Housing for Domestic Farm Labor'';
        (c) utilization of section 9 of the Cooperative Forestry 
    Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2105); and
        (d) cost-share assistance in accordance with title IV of the 
    Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201-2205) for 
    nurserymen, aquaculture farmers, and tropical fruit growers for the 
    rehabilitation of fencing destroyed or damaged by Hurricane Andrew:
Provided further, That such amounts so transferred shall be available 
only in areas affected by Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki, and Typhoon 
Omar: Provided further, That the entire amount transferred is hereby 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

                       Food and Nutrition Service


    special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For any fiscal year 1993 reallocation process, the Secretary may 
waive the 15 percent cap regulation to ensure additional funds are 
received by States most in need.

                   Human Nutrition Information Service


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-341, 
$2,250,000 are rescinded.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration


                           salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', from fees 
collected pursuant to section 736 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act, not to exceed $36,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees derived from applications received during 
fiscal year 1993 shall be subject to the fiscal year 1993 limitation.
    For an additional amount for carrying out the Mammography Quality 
Standards Act, $3,000,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be transferred from 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; $1,000,000 shall be 
transferred from the National Institutes of Health ``National Cancer 
Institute''; and $1,000,000 shall be transferred from the Health Care 
Financing Administration ``Program Management''.

                            GENERAL PROVISION

    Sec. 101. None of the funds in this Act, or any other Act, may be 
used to pay for the relocation of the Human Nutrition Information 
Service.

                               CHAPTER II

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                      minority business development

    The sum ``$13,889,000'' under this heading in Public Law 102-395, 
106 Stat. 1852, is amended to read ``$15,050,000''.

             NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION

                  Operations, Research, and Facilities


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-395, 
$1,750,000 are rescinded and in addition, of the amounts also provided 
under this heading for a semitropical research facility located at Key 
Largo, Florida, in Public Law 101-515 and Public Law 102-140, $794,000 
are rescinded.

                            GENERAL PROVISION

    Sec. 201. No grant to any State or other eligible entity to cover 
the costs of tourism promotion needs arising from Hurricane Andrew, 
Hurricane Iniki, and other disasters, made with the funds provided to 
the Department of Commerce in Public Law 102-368 (106 Stat. 1140), shall 
be subject to a maximum or minimum dollar amount as established by 
regulations of the Department of Commerce.

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States Code, or 
section 612 of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1993, funds made available for fiscal year 1993 by 
this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of 
debt collection tracking and reporting by the Department of Justice.

                         Assets Forfeiture Fund


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
395, $35,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $32,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which the entire amount is for 
necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for special 
programs in support of the Nation's security.

                          Federal Prison System


                         buildings and facilities

                               (rescission)

    From unobligated balances available under this heading, $145,000,000 
are rescinded.

                       Office of Justice Programs


                            justice assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Justice Assistance'', $150,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for grants authorized by chapter A 
of subpart 2 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968, as amended, notwithstanding the limitations of 
section 511 of said Act: Provided, That such funds shall be available 
only for the cost of the salaries and benefits, excluding overtime 
payments, resulting from the hiring of additional sworn law enforcement 
personnel.

                              THE JUDICIARY

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services


                             defender services

    For an additional amount for ``Defender Services'', $55,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.


                     fees of jurors and commissioners

    For an additional amount for ``Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', 
$5,500,000.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration


               military useful vessel obligation guarantees

                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Military Useful Vessel Obligation 
Guarantees'', $52,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $4,000,000 of these funds may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for Operations and Training for 
administrative expenses associated with the program.
    Of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 102-395, 106 
Stat. 1860, $52,000,000 are rescinded.

                  BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING

                          Israel Relay Station


                               (rescission)

    From obligated and unobligated balances available under this 
heading, $180,000,000 are rescinded.

                    FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $11,500,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-395 
from offsetting collections to be earned by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission in fiscal year 1993, $11,700,000 are rescinded.

                THOMAS JEFFERSON COMMEMORATION COMMISSION

                          Salaries and Expenses


                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-395, 
$100,000 are rescinded.

            OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                      SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                          Salaries and Expenses


                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
395, $2,000,000 are rescinded.


                               (By transfer)

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $14,000,000, 
to carry out section 24 of the Small Business Act, as amended, to be 
derived by transfer from amounts provided in Public Law 102-395 for the 
credit subsidy cost of the SBIC Program.

                     Business Loans Program Account

    For an additional amount for ``Business loans program account'', for 
the cost of section 7(a) guaranteed loans (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), 
$175,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Disaster Loans Program Account


                               (Rescission)

    Of unobligated balances available under this heading, $80,657,000 
are rescinded.

                               CHAPTER III

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$7,100,000.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Army'', 
$149,800,000.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Navy'', 
$46,356,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $122,192,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Air 
Force'', $266,400,000.

               Operation and Maintenance, Defense Agencies

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Defense 
Agencies'', $2,000,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $237,000.

                   Real Property Maintenance, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Real Property Maintenance, Defense'', 
$29,098,000.

                   Environmental Restoration, Defense

    Under the heading ``Environmental Restoration, Defense'' in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396), the 
third, fourth, and fifth provisos are repealed.

                     Humanitarian Assistance Program

    For an additional amount for the ``Humanitarian Assistance 
Program'', $23,000,000: Provided, That not less than $23,000,000 shall 
be made available until expended to continue emergency relief operations 
for the Kurdish population and other minorities of northern Iraq: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense is authorized to make grants to any individual, 
nonprofit private voluntary organization, government or government 
agency, or international or intergovernmental organization, to assist in 
meeting the humanitarian needs of the people of northern Iraq: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, items or 
articles procured for this humanitarian purpose may be grown or produced 
inside or outside the United States.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                    Defense Business Operations Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Business Operations Fund'', 
$293,500,000.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$299,900,000.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                 National Security Education Trust Fund

    There is hereby appropriated out of funds in the National Security 
Education Trust Fund, $10,000,000, which shall remain available until 
expended, for the purposes set out in paragraph (1) of section 804(b) of 
the National Security Education Act of 1991 (title VIII of Public Law 
102-183; 50 U.S.C. 1904(b)), and may be obligated for such purposes 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.

                Defense Reinvestment for Economic Growth

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Reinvestment for Economic 
Growth'', $50,000,000 to remain available for obligation through 
September 30, 1995, and to be expended not later than that date for 
projects that arise out of, or that are related to, the closure or 
realignment of the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and Naval Base Complex.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--CHAPTER III

    Sec. 301. Section 9032 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is amended by inserting ``, the 
California and Hawaii recompetition contract,'' after ``pursuant to this 
general provision'' in the next to the last proviso (relating to 
preemption provisions).
    Sec. 302. Section 9084 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is amended by inserting ``or any other 
beneficiary described by section 1086(c) of title 10, United States 
Code,'' after ``or a dependent of such a member,'', and by inserting '', 
or end stage renal disease'' after ``solely on the grounds of physical 
disability'' in the paragraph preceding the first proviso.
    Sec. 303. Section 9165 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is hereby repealed: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law $10,000,000 appropriated for 
the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1991, for Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense Agencies shall remain available until 
expended and may be obligated only for the purposes set out in section 
9078 of Public Law 102-396.
    Sec. 304. In section 103 of the Classified Annex which is 
incorporated into the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 
(Public Law 102-396) the clause ``notwithstanding any other provision of 
law'' is hereby deleted.


                               (Rescissions)

    Sec. 305. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts in the specified amounts:
        Operation and Maintenance, Defense Agencies, $87,800,000;
        Aircraft Procurement, Army, 1993/1995, $3,000,000;
        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army, 1991/
    1993, $578,000;
        Other Procurement, Army, 1991/1993, $2,287,000;
        Other Procurement, Army, 1993/1995, $13,800,000;
        Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $24,800,000;
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1991/1993, $12,700,000;
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $8,000,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1991/1993, $92,200,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $48,950,000;
        Missile Procurement, Air Force, 1993/1995, $72,900,000;
        Other Procurement, Air Force, 1993/1995, $96,800,000;
        Procurement, Defense Agencies, 1993/1995, $23,200,000;
        National Guard and Reserve Equipment, Defense, 1993/1995, 
    $249,200,000;
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy, 1993/1994, 
    $9,300,000;
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force, 1993/
    1994, $145,492,000; and
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense Agencies, 
    1993/1994, $82,500,000.
    Sec. 306. Section 9006 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is amended by deleting ``1,500,000,000'' 
and inserting in lieu thereof ``2,000,000,000''.
    Sec. 307. Except for the amounts provided under the headings 
``Defense Reinvestment for Economic Growth'', ``Humanitarian Assistance 
Program'', and ``National Security Education Trust Fund'', funds 
appropriated in this chapter shall be obligated by September 1, 1993, 
and expended not later than September 30, 1993.
    Sec. 308. Section 9150 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-396) is amended by inserting ``or transferring 
funds to assist and permit the State of Washington to acquire'' after 
the word ``acquiring''.

                               CHAPTER IV

              DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCY

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service


                     construction and anadromous fish

                          (including rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 101-121 and 
Public Law 101-512, $1,500,000 are rescinded: Provided, That of the 
$2,700,000 included under this head in Public Law 102-381 for 
construction of the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, Ohio, Metzger Marsh 
project, $2,600,000 shall be available as a grant from the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service to Ducks Unlimited, Inc., for construction of 
the Federal portion of the dike and pumping station at Metzger Marsh.


                             land acquisition

    For an additional amount for ``Land acquisition'', $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                          National Park Service


                               construction

                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-154, 
$2,700,000 are rescinded.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs


                       operation of indian programs

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian programs'', 
$21,300,000 for school operations, which shall become available for 
obligation on July 1, 1993, and shall remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1994, of which $3,900,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from unobligated balances available in the ``Oil spill 
emergency fund'' account.


                     miscellaneous payments to indians

    The paragraph under this head in Public Law 102-381 is amended by 
adding the following before the last period: ``, and (3) to reimburse 
Indian trust fund account holders for losses to their respective 
accounts where the claim for said loss(es) has been reduced by a 
judgment and/or settlement agreement approved by the Department of 
Justice''.


                  miscellaneous permanent appropriations

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Alaska resupply program'', 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be derived by 
transfer from the unobligated balances available in the ``Oil spill 
emergency fund'' account.

              General Provision, Department of the Interior

    Sec. 401. Extension of Acquisition Authority for the Petroglyph 
National Monument.--Section 104(b)(2) of Public Law 101-313 is amended 
by striking ``three'' and inserting ``four'' in lieu thereof.

                             RELATED AGENCY

               Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation


                           salaries and expenses

                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-381, 
$3,000,000 for housing are rescinded.

                                CHAPTER V

DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, EDUCATION, AND RELATED 
                                AGENCIES

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


                     training and employment services

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Training and employment services'', 
$220,000,000, to be available upon enactment of this Act, to carry into 
effect the Job Training Partnership Act, of which $3,500,000 is for 
activities under part D of title IV of such Act, of which up to 
$1,000,000 may be transferred to the Program Administration account, of 
which $50,000,000 is for activities under part H of title IV of such Act 
to be available for obligation through June 30, 1994, and of which 
$166,500,000 is for activities under part B of title II of such Act.


                               (rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-394 for 
carrying out title II, parts A and C, of the Job Training Partnership 
Act, $50,000,000 are rescinded.


             community service employment for older americans

    For an additional amount for ``Community service employment for 
older Americans'', $6,000,000, of which $4,680,000 is for national 
grants or contracts with public agencies and public or private nonprofit 
organizations under section 506(a)(1)(A) of the Older Americans Act of 
1965, as amended; and of which $1,320,000 is for grants to States under 
section 506(a)(3) of said Act.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration


                        vaccine injury compensation

    For an additional amount for payment of claims resolved by the 
United States Claims Court related to the administration of vaccines 
before October 1, 1988, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Assistant Secretary for Health


                       public health emergency fund

    For carrying out section 319(a) of the Public Health Service Act, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Social Security Administration


                  payments to social security trust funds

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to Social Security Trust 
Funds'' to reimburse the trust funds for administrative expenses to 
carry out sections 9704 and 9706 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended.


                   supplemental security income program

    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.


                   limitation on administrative expenses

    For an additional amount, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to carry out sections 9704 and 9706 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                      Student Financial Assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Student financial assistance'' for 
payment of awards made under subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, $341,000,000, which shall be 
available through September 30, 1994, only for such awards made for 
award year 1993-1994 and prior award years.

                      Community Investment Program


                          (including rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under title XII of Public Law 102-368, 
Additional Assistance to Distressed Communities, under the heading 
``Community Investment Program'', $275,000,000 are rescinded and the 
remaining $225,000,000 shall not become available until September 30, 
1993.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. Funds appropriated pursuant to section 414(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act under Public Law 102-170 for fiscal year 
1992 shall be available for the costs of assistance provided and other 
activities conducted in such year and in fiscal year 1993.
    Sec. 502. Youth Fair Chance Program.--Section 494(b) of the Job 
Training Partnership Act is amended in paragraph (3) by striking ``21'' 
and inserting ``30''.

                               CHAPTER VI

              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy'' to 
cover the incremental costs arising from flood damage at Camp Pendleton, 
California, $3,000,000.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine 
Corps'' to cover the incremental costs arising from flood damage at Camp 
Pendleton, California, $4,345,000.

                   Homeowners Assistance Fund, Defense


                          (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Homeowners Assistance Fund, 
Defense'' under Public Law 102-380, $133,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    For an additional amount for ``Homeowners Assistance Fund, 
Defense'', $133,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               CHAPTER VII

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY


                           (transfers of funds)

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Transportation Policy, $2,358,000 to be derived from amounts made 
available for the ``Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy and 
International Affairs'' in the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $7,920,000 to be derived from 
amounts made available for the ``Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy and International Affairs'' and the ``Office of Essential Air 
Service'' in the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1993.

                Office of the Director of Public Affairs

    Amounts made available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Public Affairs in the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1993, which are unobligated on the date of enactment 
of this Act shall be transferred to and merged under this head.

        Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Budget and Programs'' under Public Law 102-388, $237,000 are 
rescinded.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Governmental Affairs'' under Public Law 102-388, $303,000 are 
rescinded.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Transportation Planning, Research, 
and Development'' under Public Law 102-388, $285,000 are rescinded.

                Office of Commercial Space Transportation


                          operations and research

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Office of Commercial Space 
Transportation, Operations and Research'' under Public Law 102-388, 
$25,000 are rescinded.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Operating Expenses'' under Public 
Law 102-388, $7,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund

    Not more than $7,000,000 shall be expended in fiscal year 1993 
pursuant to section 6002(b) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to carry 
out the provisions of section 1012(a)(4) of that Act.

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Operations'' under Public Law 102-
388, $8,000,000 are rescinded.

                        Facilities and Equipment


                      (airport and airway trust fund)

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Facilities and Equipment'' under 
Public Law 100-457, $48,300,000 are rescinded.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports


                  (liquidation of contract authorization)

                     (Airport and Airway Trust Fund)

    For an additional amount for liquidation of obligations, 
$100,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until expended.

                     Federal Railroad Administration

                             Railroad Safety


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Railroad Safety'' under Public Law 
102-388, $140,000 are rescinded.


                  Northeast Corridor Improvement Program

                          (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Northeast Corridor Improvement 
Program'' under Public Law 102-388, $204,100,000 are rescinded.
    For an additional amount for ``Northeast Corridor Improvement 
Program'', $204,100,000, to remain available until expended.

          Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For an additional amount for ``Grants to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation'', to remain available until expended, $20,000,000 
for operating losses incurred by the Corporation and $25,000,000 for 
capital improvements.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Administrative Expenses'' under 
Public Law 102-388, $305,000 are rescinded.

              Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation


                        operations and maintenance

                     (Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund)


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Operations and Maintenance'' under 
Public Law 102-388, $91,000 are rescinded.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Salaries and Expenses'' under Public 
Law 102-388, $360,000 are rescinded.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 701. Section 345 of the Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992, as amended by section 353 of 
the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1993, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
        ``(7) The Metropolitan New York Aircraft Noise Mitigation 
    Committee established under this section shall not be subject to the 
    Federal Advisory Committee Act''.
    Sec. 702. Funds made available under the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, for the 
fuel cell buses program under the Federal Transit Administration's 
Discretionary grants account shall be transferred to that agency's 
Transit Planning and Research account and be administered in accordance 
with section 6 of the Federal Transit Act, as amended.

                              CHAPTER VIII

            TREASURY, POSTAL SERVICE, AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $4,000,000, 
for expenses arising from the Waco, Texas law enforcement operation.

                      United States Customs Service


                           Salaries and Expenses

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $1,618,000, 
to be derived by transfer from unobligated balances in the ``Operation 
and Maintenance, air and marine interdiction programs'' account.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt


                       administering the public debt

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
393, $3,400,000 are rescinded.

                        Internal Revenue Service


                   processing tax returns and assistance

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 102-393, 
$1,674,000 are rescinded.


                            tax law enforcement

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 102-393, 
$3,972,000 are rescinded.


                            information systems

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 102-393, 
$1,427,000 are rescinded.

                      United States Secret Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $11,277,000 
for expenses associated with the protection of former President Bush, 
security for the residence of Vice President Gore, for the extraordinary 
expenses associated with the World Trade Center bombing, and other 
urgent activities.

                    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

                        Office of Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $415,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                         The White House Office


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $7,410,538, 
of which $2,100,000 is to be derived by transfer from the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, ``Salaries and expenses''.

                Official Residence of the Vice President


                            operating expenses

    Notwithstanding the limitation contained under this heading in 
Public Law 102-393, not to exceed $125,000 may be available for official 
entertainment expenses.

                   Special Assistance to the President


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $107,000.

                   National Critical Materials Council


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
393, $50,000 are rescinded.

                         National Space Council


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
389, $650,000 are rescinded.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                       Federal Election Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $112,000.

                     General Services Administration

                         Federal Buildings Fund


                 (limitations on availability of revenue)

                               (rescission)

    The funds made available for obligation under this heading in Public 
Law 102-393 for the following accounts are hereby reduced in the 
following amounts: ``Rental of Space'', $16,000,000 and ``Installment 
and Acquisition Payments'', $2,000,000: Provided, That the aggregate 
limitation on Federal Buildings Fund obligations established in Public 
Law 102-393 is hereby reduced by such amounts: Provided further, That 
the amount deposited into the Fund is reduced by $5,900,000: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading in Public Law 
101-509 for the Northern Virginia Naval Systems Commands, $25,000,000 
are rescinded.


             allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For an additional amount for ``Allowances and Office Staff for 
Former Presidents'', $194,000.

              National Archives and Records Administration


                            operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $2,997,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 801. Not to exceed 2 per centum of any appropriations made 
available to the Executive Office of the President in fiscal year 1993 
may be transferred between such appropriations with the exception of 
appropriations to the Office of National Drug Control Policy. 
Notwithstanding any authority to transfer funds between appropriations 
contained in this or any other Act, no transfer may increase or decrease 
any appropriation by more than 2 per centum and any such proposed 
transfers shall be approved in advance by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 802. Notwithstanding any provision of law, funds made available 
to the United States Customs Service by this or any other Act, may be 
transferred to State and local governmental agencies for law enforcement 
purposes.
    Sec. 803. Section 617 of Public Law 102-393 is hereby repealed.
    Sec. 804. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $2,000,000 
made available by transfer to the Drug Enforcement Administration from 
the ``Special Forfeiture Fund'' account of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy in Public Law 102-393 may be used for an expansion study 
of the El Paso Intelligence Center and for the operation and maintenance 
of the computer systems at the Center.
    Sec. 805. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of the 
action taken with respect to the White House travel office and shall 
submit the findings from such review to the Congress by no later than 
September 30, 1993.

                               CHAPTER IX

 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND 
                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration


                         compensation and pensions

    For an additional amount for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
$475,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Veterans Health Administration


                               Medical Care

                       (Including Transfer of Funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Medical care'', $3,000,000, to be 
derived by transfer from amounts appropriated under the head ``Medical 
administration and miscellaneous operating expenses'' in Public Law 102-
389.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not less than 
$9,315,000,000 of the sums appropriated under this heading in Public Law 
102-389 shall be available only for expenses in the personnel 
compensation and benefits object classifications.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds provided under 
this heading in Public Law 102-389 shall be available to establish and 
operate a geriatric research, education, and clinical center as directed 
in House Report 102-902.


        medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the national oversight 
quality assurance activities, described in section 104 of Public Law 
102-405, shall be funded under this heading during the remainder of the 
fiscal year and in subsequent fiscal years.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                            Housing Programs


                   Home Investment Partnerships Program

                           (Transfers of Funds)

    For additional amounts for the HOME investment partnerships program, 
as authorized under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, as amended, subject to the terms provided under 
this head in the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992, 
Public Law 102-368, to remain available until expended, $60,000,000, to 
be derived by transfer from the $100,000,000 appropriated in the second 
paragraph under the head ``Annual contributions for assisted housing'' 
in such Act.
    For additional amounts for the HOME investment partnerships program, 
as authorized under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act, as amended, subject to the terms provided under 
this head in the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992, 
Public Law 102-368, $62,500,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That up to $50,000,000 of the amounts required to fund the 
foregoing amount shall be derived by transfer from the Homeownership and 
Opportunity for People Everywhere Grants (HOPE grants) account and the 
remaining amounts shall be transferred from the Flexible Subsidy Fund, 
notwithstanding section 236(f)(3) of the National Housing Act and 
section 201(j) of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 
1978, as amended.


                severely distressed public housing projects

                            (transfer of funds)

    For activities as set forth in the third paragraph under the head 
``Homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere grants (HOPE 
grants)'' in the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, 
$300,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be derived by 
transfer from amounts appropriated for the purpose under the foregoing 
head.


                            youthbuild programs

                            (Transfer of Funds)

    For activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, under the heading ``HOPE for 
Youth: Youthbuild'', $40,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
be derived by transfer from amounts appropriated under the head 
``Homeownership and opportunity for people everywhere grants (HOPE 
grants)'' in title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing 
and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1993, Public Law 102-389.

                     Federal Housing Administration


              FHA--Mutual Mortgage Insurance program Account

    The limitation on commitments to guarantee loans during fiscal year 
1993 to carry out the purpose of section 203(b) of the National Housing 
Act, as amended, is increased by a loan principal of $42,854,000,000.


     FHA--general insurance and special risk insurance program account

               (including transfer and rescissions of funds)

    For an additional amount for the cost of guaranteed loans authorized 
by sections 238 and 519 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-3(b) and 1735c-(f)), up to $19,000,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 236(f)(3) of such Act and section 201(j) of the 
Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as amended, 
amounts required to fund the foregoing amount shall be derived by 
transfer from the Flexible Subsidy Fund during fiscal year 1993: 
Provided further, That prior to obligation of any funds from this 
transfer, such sums as may be necessary shall be rescinded from such 
Fund so that no amount so transferred shall increase departmental budget 
outlays or budget authority: Provided further, That of the amounts 
otherwise available under the Flexible Subsidy Fund during fiscal year 
1993, an additional $2,000,000 are rescinded.
    During fiscal year 1993 additional commitments to insure loans under 
this head shall not exceed a total principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, of an additional $500,000,000.

                Government National Mortgage Association


     Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee Program 
                                 Account

    The limitation on new commitments during fiscal year 1993 to issue 
guarantees to carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National 
Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(q)), is increased by an 
additional $30,000,000,000.

                   Community Planning and Development


                       community development grants

               (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', for 
use only for the repair, renovation, or replacement, or other authorized 
community development activities affecting structures damaged or 
destroyed by Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki, Typhoon Omar, and other 
Presidentially-declared disasters, to remain available until September 
30, 1995, $40,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the $100,000,000 
appropriated in the second paragraph under the head ``Annual 
contributions for assisted housing'' in the Dire Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1992, Public Law 102-368: Provided, That the 
Secretary may waive entirely, or in any part, any requirement set forth 
in title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, except 
a requirement relating to fair housing and nondiscrimination, the 
environment, and labor standards, if the Secretary finds that such 
waiver will further the purposes of the use of the amount hereby 
transferred.
    Of the unobligated balances of amounts heretofore made available for 
activities under section 107 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974, and without regard for any provision of subsection (a) of 
section 107 of such Act, or any earmarks for such section 107 set forth 
under this head in any prior appropriations Act, $45,000,000 are 
rescinded.
    For an additional amount for ``Community development grants'', for 
use for authorized community development activities only in areas 
impacted by Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki, or Typhoon Omar, 
$45,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1995: Provided, 
That the Secretary may waive entirely, or in any part, any requirement 
set forth in title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, except a requirement relating to fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, if the 
Secretary finds that such waiver will further the purposes of the use of 
the amount hereby appropriated.

                      Management and Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    The third, fourth, and fifth provisos under this head in title II of 
the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, 
and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, Public Law 102-389, 
are repealed.

                        Administrative Provisions

    The accounts under the head ``Management and administration'', 
except the account for the Office of Inspector General, in title II, 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992, Public Law 102-139, and 
the amounts in such accounts, are hereby merged into ``Salaries and 
expenses'', for the purposes of administering such accounts in 
accordance with title 31, United States Code, subchapter IV, chapter 15.
    The seventh paragraph under this heading in the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, Public Law 102-389 (the second full 
paragraph at 106 Stat. 1591) is repealed.
    Of the $260,000,000 earmarked in Public Law 102-389 for special 
purpose grants (106 Stat. 1571, 1584), $1,750,000 made available to Los 
Angeles, California, for a loan fund to be administered by a nonprofit 
community organization in support of small business revitalization that 
will create a beneficial impact on employment, income, savings, and the 
development of a stronger community economic base in South Central Los 
Angeles shall instead be made available to the Brotherhood Crusade Black 
United Front of Los Angeles for the same purpose.
    Of the $260,000,000 earmarked in Public Law 102-389 for special 
purpose grants (106 Stat. 1571, 1584), $1,500,000 made available for a 
feasibility study on infrastructure improvements needed for the economic 
development of the Peoria, Illinois, area shall instead be made 
available for economic development in Marshall County, Illinois.
    Of the $54,250,000 earmarked in Public Law 101-507 for special 
purpose grants (104 Stat. 1351, 1357), $1,350,000 made available for the 
Bickerdike Redevelopment Corporation for the rehabilitation of 70 units 
in three buildings, for rental to low-income tenants in the City of 
Chicago shall instead be made available for the Bickerdike Redevelopment 
Corporation, for the creation of rental subsidy for 70 units of 
affordable housing for rental to low-income tenants in the City of 
Chicago. The Rental Subsidy program is to be set up through a secure 
investment portfolio by Bickerdike whereby principal and interest earned 
will be used to subsidize rents for a period of years.
    Notwithstanding any provision of law or regulation thereunder, the 
requirement that an amendment to an urban development action grant 
agreement must be integrally related to the approved project is hereby 
waived for project No. B84AB210149.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Environmental Protection Agency


                    abatement, control, and compliance

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Abatement, control, and compliance'' 
in Public Law 102-389, $6,000,000 are rescinded.


                      Program and Research Operations

    For an additional amount for ``Program and research operations'', 
$3,000,000.


                 state revolving funds/construction grants

    Title III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, is 
amended in the paragraph under the subheading ``State revolving funds/
construction grants'' under the heading ``Environmental Protection 
Agency'' by striking ``necessary work to remove and reroute the existing 
sewer lines at'' and inserting ``improvements related to the sewer 
system that services''.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration


                         Research and Development

                       (Including Transfer of Funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Research and development'', 
$5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994, to be derived 
by transfer from amounts provided under the head ``Construction of 
facilities'' in Public Law 102-389.
    Funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-389 for 
the restructured Space Station Freedom program may be made available for 
the redesigned Space Station program without limitation.


               Space Flight, Control and Data Communications

                               (Rescission)

    Of the amounts provided under this heading in Public Law 102-389, 
$27,200,000 are rescinded.


                      Research and Program Management

    For an additional amount for ``Research and program management'', 
$20,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1994.

                               CHAPTER XI

                      ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil


                           Construction, General

    Using funds heretofore appropriated in Public Law 102-377, the Chief 
of Engineers, United States Army Corps of Engineers, is directed to use 
$750,000 to undertake work on the Cliff Walk, Rhode Island, project as 
provided in the Conference Report accompanying H.R. 5373 (Public Law 
102-377).


                         Administrative Provision

    Using funds heretofore appropriated under ``Construction, general'', 
the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to augment, reprogram, transfer or apply such additional sums 
as necessary to continue construction and cover anticipated contract 
earnings on any project which received an appropriation or allowance 
within the appropriation in fiscal year 1993 in order to avoid 
terminating any contracts and to avoid schedule delays.

                               CHAPTER XII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 1201. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 1202. (a) Acquisition of Property.--Section 1(a) of the Act 
entitled ``An Act to authorize the Architect of the Capitol to acquire 
certain property'', approved August 3, 1992, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) Acquisition of Property.--(1) The Architect of the Capitol, 
under the direction of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, 
may acquire, on behalf of the United States Government, by purchase, 
condemnation, transfer or otherwise, as an addition to the United States 
Capitol Grounds, such real property in the District of Columbia as may 
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. Real property 
acquired for purposes of this Act, may, in the discretion of the 
Architect of the Capitol, extend to the outer face of the curbs of such 
property so acquired, including alleys or parts of alleys and streets 
within the lot lines and curblines surrounding such real property, 
together with any or all improvements thereon.
    ``(2) Subject to the approval by the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, an amount necessary to enable the Architect of the Capitol 
to carry out the provisions of this section may be transferred from any 
appropriation under the heading `senate' and the subheadings `Salaries, 
Officers and Employees', and `Office of the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper', and the subheadings `Contingent Expenses of the Senate' and 
`Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate' to the account 
appropriated under the heading `architect of the capitol' and the 
subheadings `Capitol Buildings and Grounds' and `Senate Office 
Buildings'.''.
    (b) Facilities.--The first sentence of subsection (d) of section 1 
of such Act is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' immediately after ``to make 
    expenditures for''; and
        (2) by inserting immediately before the period at the end 
    thereof a semicolon and the following: ``and (2) for the 
    construction on such real property of any facilities thereon as 
    authorized under subsection (f)''.
    Sec. 1203. (a)(1) Section 320 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (40 U.S.C. 214d; Public Law 102-392; 106 Stat. 
1725) is amended--
        (A) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (i) 
    and (j), respectively; and
        (B) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(h)(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), the Secretary 
of the Senate shall pay such amounts to the Senate day care center equal 
to the tax on employers under section 3111 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 with respect to each employee of the Senate day care center. 
Such payments shall be made from the appropriations account, within the 
contingent fund of the Senate, `Miscellaneous Items'.
    ``(2) The Senate day care center shall provide appropriate 
documentation to the Secretary of the Senate of payment by such center 
of the tax described under paragraph (1), before the Secretary of the 
Senate may pay any amount to such center as provided under paragraph 
(1).''.
    (2) The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
first day of the first month beginning on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (b)(1) Section 320(b)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-392; 106 Stat. 1725) is amended by striking 
out ``the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``January 1, 1993''.
    (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 1204. (a) Section 309(a) of Public Law 102-166 is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--Any party aggrieved by a final decision entered 
pursuant to the provisions of section 308(d)(2) may petition for review 
by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A 
decision may not be reviewed under this section unless a timely request 
for review of such decision was filed under section 308(a).''.
    (b) The amendment made by this section shall take effect upon the 
date of the enactment of this Act, except that such amendment shall not 
affect any proceeding or suit commenced before the effective date and in 
all such proceedings or suits, proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, 
and judgments rendered in the same manner and with the same effect as if 
this section had not been enacted.
    Sec. 1205. (a) There is established in the contingent fund of the 
Senate the ``Settlements and Awards Reserve'' appropriation account--
        (1) into which shall be deposited appropriated funds and amounts 
    transferred by the Secretary of the Senate from funds available to 
    the Secretary for disbursement by the Secretary; and
        (2) that shall be available as provided in subsection (b).
    (b) The appropriation account established by subsection (a) shall be 
available for the payment of awards under section 307 of Public Law 102-
166 and payments pursuant to agreements under section 310 of such Act.
    (c) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
necessary for the purposes of subsection (b).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Supplemental Appropriations Act of 
1993''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.