[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4556 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4556

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other 
purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $58,094,000, 
of which $3,962,000 shall remain available until expended; and of which 
not to exceed $40,000 shall be available as the Secretary may determine 
for allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That in addition to this amount and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds provided in 
this or any other Act for the Department of Transportation, the 
Secretary may transfer not to exceed $5,376,000 from accounts otherwise 
available for carrying out civil rights functions within the Department 
of Transportation to this account for carrying out internal civil 
rights functions through a consolidated departmental Office of Civil 
Rights within the Office of the Secretary: Provided further, That in 
addition, for transfer of civil rights and legal support activities 
related to the Federal Highway Administration, $809,000 to be derived 
from ``Federal-aid Highways'' subject to the ``Limitation on General 
Operating Expenses'': Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds available for the purposes of the Minority 
Business Resource Center in this Act may be used for business 
opportunities related to any mode of transportation.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, and development activities, including the collection of 
national transportation statistics, to remain available until expended, 
$8,293,000.

               Office of Commercial Space Transportation


                         operations and research

    For necessary expenses for operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, $6,060,000, of which 
$3,833,000 shall remain available until expended.

                          Working Capital Fund

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Department of Transportation Working Capital Fund not to exceed 
$93,000,000 shall be paid, in accordance with law, from appropriations 
made available by this Act and prior appropriations Acts to the 
Department of Transportation, together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Department of Transportation.

                        Payments to Air Carriers

                (liquidation of contract authorization)


                     (airport and airway trust fund)

             (including rescission of contract authorization)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for payments to air 
carriers of so much of the compensation fixed and determined under 
section 419 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 
1389), as is payable by the Department of Transportation, $33,423,000, 
to remain available until expended and to be derived from the Airport 
and Airway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs in 
excess of $33,423,000 for the Payments to Air Carriers program in 
fiscal year 1995: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be used by the Secretary of Transportation to make payment of 
compensation under section 419 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as 
amended, in excess of the appropriation in this Act for liquidation of 
obligations incurred under the ``Payments to air carriers'' program: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be used for 
the payment of claims for such compensation except in accordance with 
this provision: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for service to communities in the forty-eight 
contiguous States that are located fewer than seventy highway miles 
from the nearest large or medium hub airport, or that require a rate of 
subsidy per passenger in excess of $200 unless such point is greater 
than two hundred and ten miles from the nearest large or medium hub 
airport: Provided further, That of funds provided for ``Small Community 
Air Service'' by Public Law 101-508, $4,000,000 in fiscal year 1995 is 
hereby rescinded.

                            Rental Payments

  For necessary expenses for rental of headquarters and field space and 
related services assessed by the General Services Administration, 
$144,419,000: Provided, That of this amount, $1,976,000 shall be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $39,426,000 shall be derived from 
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, $713,000 shall be derived from the 
Pipeline Safety Fund, and $181,000 shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided further, That in addition, for 
assessments by the General Services Administration related to the space 
needs of the Federal Highway Administration, $18,044,000, to be derived 
from ``Federal-aid Highways'', subject to the ``Limitation on General 
Operating Expenses''.

               Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
not to exceed $15,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the direct loan program, $400,000.

                              COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed 
fifteen passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments 
pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 
note), and section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)); and recreation and welfare; $2,598,000,000, of which 
$25,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; 
and of which $25,000,000 shall be expended from the Boat Safety 
Account: Provided, That the number of aircraft on hand at any one time 
shall not exceed two hundred and eighteen, exclusive of aircraft and 
parts stored to meet future attrition: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be available for 
pay or administrative expenses in connection with shipping 
commissioners in the United States: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act shall be available for expenses incurred for 
yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the extent fees 
are collected from yacht owners and credited to this appropriation: 
Provided further, That the Commandant shall reduce both military and 
civilian employment levels for the purpose of complying with Executive 
Order No. 12839.

              Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, rebuilding, 
and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $362,950,000, of which 
$32,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; 
of which $187,900,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate 
or improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain 
available until September 30, 1999; $11,800,000 shall be available to 
acquire new aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain 
available until September 30, 1997; $29,700,000 shall be available for 
other equipment, to remain available until September 30, 1997; 
$89,350,000 shall be available for shore facilities and aids to 
navigation facilities, to remain available until September 30, 1997; 
and $44,200,000 shall be available for personnel compensation and 
benefits and related costs, to remain available until September 30, 
1995: Provided, That funds received from the sale of the VC-11A and HU-
25 aircraft shall be credited to this appropriation for the purpose of 
acquiring new aircraft and increasing aviation capacity.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $23,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                              Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $562,585,000.

                            Reserve Training

    For all necessary expenses for the Coast Guard Reserve, as 
authorized by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and 
supplies, equipment, and services; $64,981,000: Provided, That funds 
provided under this head shall support a selected reserve force of 
8,000 members.

              Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $20,310,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,150,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from State and local governments, other public authorities, 
private sources, and foreign countries, for expenses incurred for 
research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                              Boat Safety


                      (aquatic resources trust fund)

    For payment of necessary expenses incurred for recreational boating 
safety assistance under Public Law 92-75, as amended, $25,000,000, to 
be derived from the Boat Safety Account and to remain available until 
expended.

                    FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses for research 
and development, establishment of air navigation facilities and the 
operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, and carrying 
out the provisions of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, 
as amended, or other provisions of law authorizing the obligation of 
funds for similar programs of airport and airway development or 
improvement, lease or purchase of four passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $4,595,394,000, of which $2,450,250,000 shall be 
derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund: Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in the 
provision of aviation services, including the maintenance and operation 
of air navigation facilities and for issuance, renewal or modification 
of certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair station 
certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing major 
repair or alteration forms: Provided further, That, of the funds 
available under this head, $17,500,000 is available only for permanent 
change of station moves for members of the air traffic workforce: 
Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a grant 
agreement with a nonprofit standard setting organization to assist in 
the development of aviation safety standards: Provided further, That 
none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new applicants for 
the second career training program: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for paying premium pay under 5 
U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless 
such employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to 
such premium pay.

                        Facilities and Equipment


                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, 
and hire of air navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as 
authorized by the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 
App. 1301 et seq.), including initial acquisition of necessary sites by 
lease or grant; engineering and service testing including construction 
of test facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant; and construction and furnishing of quarters and related 
accommodations for officers and employees of the Federal Aviation 
Administration stationed at remote localities where such accommodations 
are not available; and the purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft 
from funds available under this head; to be derived from the Airport 
and Airway Trust Fund, $2,087,489,000, of which $1,878,989,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 1997, and of which $208,500,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources, for expenses incurred in the establishment and modernization 
of air navigation facilities: Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this head for the Advanced Automation System may be obligated 
until the Federal Aviation Administration submits to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and the House Committee on Public 
Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation a comprehensive program plan and up to date estimate 
of the fiscal year 1995 budget requirement for this program.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development


                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1301 et seq.), 
including construction of experimental facilities and acquisition of 
necessary sites by lease or grant, $259,192,000, to be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That there may be credited to this appropriation funds 
received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred for research, 
engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and for noise compatibility planning 
and programs under the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as 
amended, and under other law authorizing such obligations, 
$1,500,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund 
and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the commitments for which are in excess of $1,450,000,000 in 
fiscal year 1995 for grants-in-aid for airport planning and 
development, and noise compatibility planning and programs, 
notwithstanding section 506(e)(4) of the Airport and Airway Improvement 
Act of 1982, as amended.

                   Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to section 1306 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as 
amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1536), and in accordance with section 104 of 
the Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as 
may be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under title XIII of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958.

                Aircraft Purchase Loan Guarantee Program

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for activities 
under this head the obligations for which are in excess of $9,970,000 
during fiscal year 1995.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                Limitation on General Operating Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration, operation, including motor 
carrier safety program operations, and research of the Federal Highway 
Administration not to exceed $525,341,000 shall be paid in accordance 
with law from appropriations made available by this Act to the Federal 
Highway Administration together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, That not to 
exceed $218,158,000 of the amount provided herein shall remain 
available until September 30, 1997.

                     Highway-Related Safety Grants


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

              (including rescission and transfer of funds)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of title 23, United States Code, section 402 administered by the 
Federal Highway Administration, to remain available until expended, 
$10,800,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
not to exceed $100,000 of the amount appropriated herein shall be 
available for ``Limitation on general operating expenses'': Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or execution of programs the obligations for which are in 
excess of $10,800,000 in fiscal year 1995 for ``Highway-Related Safety 
Grants'': Provided further, That of the funds authorized for section 
402 highway safety programs in section 1003(a)(7) of Public Law 102-
240, $20,000,000 in unobligated contract authority is rescinded.

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are 
in excess of $17,160,000,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway 
safety construction programs for fiscal year 1995.

                          Federal-Aid Highways


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States Code, 
that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, including the National 
Scenic and Recreational Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not 
otherwise provided, including reimbursements for sums expended pursuant 
to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $17,000,000,000 or so much thereof 
as may be available in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                      Right-of-Way Revolving Fund

                      (limitation on direct loans)

                          (highway trust fund)

    During fiscal year 1995 and with the resources and authority 
available, gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
shall not exceed $42,500,000.

                      Motor Carrier Safety Grants


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of section 402 of Public Law 97-424, $73,000,000, to be derived from 
the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are 
in excess of $74,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''.

                    Surface Transportation Projects

    For up to 80 percent or as specified in authorizing legislation, of 
the expenses necessary for certain highway and surface transportation 
projects and parking facilities, including feasibility and 
environmental studies, that advance methods of improving safety, 
reducing congestion, or otherwise improving surface transportation, 
$352,055,000, to remain available until expended.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                        Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under the Motor Vehicle 
Information and Cost Savings Act (Public Law 92-513, as amended) and 
the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (Public Law 89-563, 
as amended), $79,556,000, of which $42,965,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 1997.

                        Operations and Research


                           (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under 23 U.S.C. 403 and 
section 2006 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, $46,997,000, of which 
$30,310,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1997.

                     Highway Traffic Safety Grants


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred carrying out the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 153, 402, 408, and 410, section 211(b) of the National Driver 
Register Act of 1982, as amended, and section 209 of Public Law 95-599, 
as amended, to remain available until expended, $151,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That, notwithstanding 
subsection 2009(b) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991, none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or execution of programs the total obligations for which, in 
fiscal year 1995, are in excess of $151,400,000 for programs authorized 
under 23 U.S.C. 402 and 410, as amended, of which $123,000,000 shall be 
for ``State and community highway safety grants'', $3,400,000 shall be 
for the ``National Driver Register'', and $25,000,000 shall be for 
section 410 ``Alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures programs'': 
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used for 
construction, rehabilitation or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or 
structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,153,000 of the 
funds made available for section 402 may be available for administering 
``State and community highway safety grants'': Provided further, That 
not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 may 
be available for technical assistance to the States.

                    FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                      Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $13,090,000, of which $1,508,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the planning or execution of a program making 
commitments to guarantee new loans under the Emergency Rail Services 
Act of 1970, as amended, and that no new commitments to guarantee loans 
under section 211(a) or 211(h) of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act 
of 1973, as amended, shall be made: Provided further, That, as part of 
the Washington Union Station transaction in which the Secretary assumed 
the first deed of trust on the property and, where the Union Station 
Redevelopment Corporation or any successor is obligated to make 
payments on such deed of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including 
payments on and after September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized 
to receive such payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation, credit them to the appropriation charged for the first 
deed of trust, and make payments on the first deed of trust with those 
funds: Provided further, That such additional sums as may be necessary 
for payment on the first deed of trust may be advanced by the 
Administrator from unobligated balances available to the Federal 
Railroad Administration, to be reimbursed from payments received from 
the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation.

                     Local Rail Freight Assistance

      For necessary expenses for rail assistance under section 5(q) of 
the Department of Transportation Act, as amended, $17,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                            Railroad Safety

    For necessary expenses in connection with railroad safety, not 
otherwise provided for, $47,729,000, of which $2,600,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses including grants for railroad research and 
development, $20,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Northeast Corridor Improvement Program

    For necessary expenses related to Northeast Corridor improvements 
authorized by title VII of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
Reform Act of 1976, as amended (45 U.S.C. 851 et seq.) and the Rail 
Safety Improvement Act of 1988, $200,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997.

            Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to 
section 512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 
1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times 
as may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the 
guarantee of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 
through 513 of such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such 
guaranteed obligation is outstanding: Provided, That no new loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made during fiscal year 1995: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 1989 and each fiscal year thereafter all amounts realized from the 
sale of notes or securities sold under authority of title V of such Act 
shall be considered as current year domestic discretionary outlay 
offsets and not as ``asset sales'' or ``loan prepayments'' as defined 
by section 257(12) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That any underwriting fees 
and related expenses shall be derived solely from the proceeds of the 
sales.

           National Magnetic Levitation Prototype Development

                      (limitation on obligations)


                           (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning 
or execution of the National Magnetic Levitation Prototype Development 
program as defined in subsections 1036(b) and 1036(d)(1)(A) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991.

                    Next Generation High Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for Next Generation High Speed Rail studies, 
corridor planning, development, demonstration, and implementation, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
under this head may be made available for grants to states for high 
speed rail corridor design, feasibility studies, environmental analyses 
and track and signal Pimprovements.

          Trust Fund Share of Next Generation High Speed Rail


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For grants and payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the 
provisions of the High-Speed Ground Transportation program as defined 
in subsections 1036(c) and 1036(d)(1)(B) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, including planning and 
environmental analyses, $3,400,000, to be derived from the Highway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds in this Act shall be available for the implementation or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$5,000,000.

         Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation authorized by 45 U.S.C. 601, to 
remain available until expended, $772,000,000, of which $542,000,000 
shall be available for operating losses incurred by the Corporation, 
for mandatory passenger rail service payments, and for labor protection 
costs, and of which $230,000,000, not to become available until July 1, 
1995, shall be available for capital improvements: Provided, That none 
of the funds herein appropriated shall be used for lease or purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles or for the hire of vehicle operators for any 
officer or employee, other than the president of the Corporation, 
excluding the lease of passenger motor vehicles for those officers or 
employees while in official travel status: Provided further, That of 
the funds provided under this head for operating losses, $8,000,000 is 
available only for the National Railroad Passenger Corporation's share 
of short-term avoidable losses for state-supported rail services 
authorized under section 403(b) of the Rail Passenger Service Act, as 
amended.

                     Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$5,000,000, to be matched by the State of Rhode Island or its designee 
on a dollar for dollar basis and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That as a condition of accepting such funds, the Providence 
and Worcester (P&W) Railroad shall enter into an agreement with the 
Secretary to reimburse Amtrak and/or the Federal Railroad 
Administration, on a dollar for dollar basis, up to the first 
$5,000,000 in damages resulting from any legal action initiated by the 
P&W Railroad under its existing contracts with Amtrak relating to the 
provision of vertical clearances between Davisville and Central Falls 
in excess of those required for present freight operations.

               Pennsylvania Station Redevelopment Project

    For grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, 
$40,000,000, to remain available until expended, for engineering, 
design and construction activities to enable the James A. Farley Post 
Office in New York City to be used as a train station and commercial 
center: Provided, That the Secretary may retain from these funds such 
amounts as the Secretary shall deem appropriate to undertake the 
environmental and historic preservation analyses associated with this 
project: Provided further, That none of these funds may be expended for 
construction activities (except for emergency and short-term and 
related repairs and environmental restoration) until the participants 
have entered into  a binding Pagreement satisfactory to the Secretary 
that contains financial and related commitments from the participants 
sufficient to ensure the completion of the project: Provided further, 
That no funds provided under this head shall be available until 
authorized by law.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                        Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by the Federal Transit Act and 23 
U.S.C. chapter 1 in connection with these activities, including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$43,060,000.

                             Formula Grants


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 9, 
16(b)(2), and 18 of the Federal Transit Act, to remain available until 
expended, $1,350,000,000: Provided, That no more than $2,500,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this head for formula grants 
no more than $710,000,000 may be used for operating assistance under 
section 9(k)(2) of the Federal Transit Act: Provided further, That of 
the funds provided under this head, $16,000,000 shall be available for 
grants for the costs of planning, delivery and temporary use of transit 
vehicles for special transportation needs of the XXVth Summer Olympiad 
and the Xth Paralympiad for the Disabled, to be held in Atlanta, 
Georgia, of which $5,600,000 shall be available for the Paralympic 
Games: Provided further, That in allocating the funds designated in the 
preceding proviso, the Secretary may make grants to any public body the 
Secretary deems appropriate, and such grants shall not be subject to 
any local share requirement or limitation on operating assistance under 
this Act or the Federal Transit Act: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this head, $8,000,000 shall be transferred 
to the Federal Transit Administration's Transit Planning and Research 
account and be administered in accordance with section 26(b) of the 
Federal Transit Act, as amended.

                   University Transportation Centers

    For necessary expenses for university transportation centers as 
authorized by section 11(b) of the Federal Transit Act, to remain 
available until expended, $6,000,000.

                     Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses for transit planning and research as 
authorized by section 26 of the Federal Transit Act, to remain 
available until expended, $92,250,000.

                  Trust Fund Share of Transit Programs


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out section 21(a) 
of the Federal Transit Act, $1,150,000,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That 
$1,150,000,000 shall be paid from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund to the Federal Transit Administration's formula 
grants account.

                          Discretionary Grants


                       (limitation on obligations)

                           (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs the obligations for which are 
in excess of $1,725,000,000 in fiscal year 1995 for grants under the 
contract authority in section 21(b) of the Federal Transit Act: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any provision of law, there shall be 
available for fixed guideway modernization, $725,000,000; there shall 
be available for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses 
and related equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, 
$353,330,000; and there shall be available for new fixed guideway 
systems, $646,670,000, to be available as follows:
        $24,000,000 for the South Boston Piers transitway project;
        $25,000,000 for the Chicago central area circulator project;
        $16,925,000 for the Dallas South Oak Cliff LRT project;
        $2,500,000 for the DART North Central light rail extension 
    project;
        $3,000,000 for the Dallas-Fort Worth RAILTRAN project;
        $10,000,000 for the Florida Tri-County commuter rail project;
        $30,000,000 for the Houston Regional Bus Plan program;
        $165,000,000 for the Los Angeles Metro Rail (MOS-3) project;
        $1,000,000 for the Miami Metrorail north corridor extension 
    project;
        $107,000,000 for the New Jersey Urban Core project;
        $10,000,000 for the New Orleans Canal Street Corridor project;
        $55,000,000 for the New York Queens Connection project;
        $1,200,000 for the Cincinnati Northeast/Northern Kentucky rail 
    line project;
        $5,000,000 for the Orange County Transitway project;
        $10,000,000 for the Pittsburgh Busway projects;
        $98,000,000 for the Portland Westside LRT project;
        $5,000,000 for the Salt Lake City light rail project: Provided, 
    That such funding may be made available for related high-occupancy 
    vehicle lane and intermodal corridor design costs: Provided 
    further, That notwithstanding the provisions of Public Law 103-122, 
    funds provided for the Salt Lake City light rail project in that 
    Act may be used for final design;
        $20,150,000 for the San Francisco BART Extension/Tasman 
    corridor project;
        $5,000,000 for the San Juan, Puerto Rico Tren Urbano project;
        $2,350,000 for the Seattle-Renton-Tacoma commuter rail project;
        $12,095,000 for the St. Louis Metro Link LRT project;
        $3,000,000 for the Maryland Central Corridor LRT project;
        $3,600,000 for the Boston, Massachusetts to Portland, Maine 
    Transportation Corridor Program;
        $14,000,000 for the MARC Commuter Rail project;
        $500,000 for the Tampa to Lakeland commuter rail project;
        $5,000,000 for the Twin Cities central corridor project;
        $2,500,000 for the Wisconsin central commuter project;
        $2,500,000 for the Whitehall ferry terminal, New York, New 
    York.
        $1,100,000 for the Boston metropolitan ``Urban Ring'' project;
        $1,500,000 for the Burlington to Gloucester, New Jersey line;
        $750,000 for the New Bedford and Fall River, Massachusetts 
    commuter rail extensions; and
        $4,000,000 for the West Shore Line, New Jersey.

                       Mass Transit Capital Fund


                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                           (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out section 21(b) 
of the Federal Transit Act, administered by the Federal Transit 
Administration, $1,500,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until expended.

                  Interstate Transfer Grants--Transit

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 
103(e)(4) related to transit projects, $48,030,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding the formula for 
apportionment under 23 U.S.C. 103(e)(4)(J), of the amount made 
available under this head, only $9,500,000 shall be available for the 
substitute transit project approved under section 1045 of Public Law 
102-240.

             Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 14 of 
Public Law 96-184 and Public Law 101-551, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance


                     (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operation and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $10,251,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                     Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $26,238,000, of which $185,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $2,468,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That up to 
$1,000,000 in fees collected under section 106(c)(11) of the Hazardous 
Materials Transportation Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1805(c)(11)) 
shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting 
receipts: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, there may be credited to this appropriation up to $1,000,000 in 
funds received from user fees established to support the electronic 
tariff filing system: Provided further, That there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received from user fees established to defray 
the costs of obtaining, preparing, and publishing in automatic data 
processing tape format the United States International Air Travel 
Statistics data base published by the Department.

                            Pipeline Safety


                          (pipeline safety fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by section 5 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety 
Act of 1968, as amended, and the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act 
of 1979, as amended, and to discharge the pipeline program 
responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $37,424,000; of 
which $2,432,500 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 1997; and of which 
$34,991,500 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of which 
$16,317,500 shall remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, 
That from amounts made available herein from the Pipeline Safety Fund, 
not to exceed $750,000 shall be available for grants to States for the 
development and establishment of one-call notification systems.

                     Emergency Preparedness Grants


                      (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 117A(i)(3)(B) of the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended, $400,000 to be 
derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 1997: Provided, That not more than $10,800,000 shall be 
made available for obligation in fiscal year 1995 from amounts made 
available by section 117A(h)(6)(B) and (i) (1), (2) and (4) of the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended: Provided further, 
That no such funds shall be made available for obligation by 
individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, the Director of 
the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, or their 
designees.

                       Alaska Pipeline Task Force


                               (rescission)

                     (oil spill liability trust fund)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
388, $544,000 are rescinded.

                    OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $40,000,000: Provided, That of such amount, $180,000 shall be 
available for employment by the Inspector General of independent legal 
counsel at the Department of Transportation.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $3,350,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-18; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$37,392,000, of which not to exceed $1,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Interstate Commerce Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b), $30,302,000: 
Provided, That $8,300,000 in fees collected in fiscal year 1995 by the 
Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701 shall be made 
available to this appropriation in fiscal year 1995.

                   Payments for Directed Rail Service


                       (limitation on obligations)

    None of the funds provided in this Act shall be available for the 
execution of programs the obligations for which can reasonably be 
expected to exceed $475,000 for directed rail service authorized under 
49 U.S.C. 11125 or any other Act.

                        PANAMA CANAL COMMISSION

                      Panama Canal Revolving Fund

    For administrative expenses of the Panama Canal Commission, 
including not to exceed $11,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Board; not to exceed $5,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses of the Secretary; and not to 
exceed $30,000 for official reception and representation expenses of 
the Administrator, $50,030,000, to be derived from the Panama Canal 
Revolving Fund: Provided, That none of these funds may be used for the 
planning or execution of nonadministrative and capital programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $540,000,000 in fiscal year 
1995: Provided further, That funds available to the Panama Canal 
Commission shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed forty-
three passenger motor vehicles for replacement only (including large 
heavy-duty vehicles used to transport Commission personnel across the 
Isthmus of Panama), the purchase price of which shall not exceed 
$19,500 per vehicle.

             WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY

             Interest Payments and Repayments of Principal

    For payment of obligations incurred pursuant to Public Law 96-184 
and the Initial Bond Repayment Participation Agreement, $664,666,667, 
to remain available until expended, which shall be used only to repay 
principal to the Federal Financing Bank for the Washington Metrorail 
construction loan; and in addition, such amounts as are necessary for 
payment to the Federal Financing Bank, of accrued interest and premium, 
if any, for such loan.

                               TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Funds for the Panama Canal Commission may be apportioned 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1341 to the extent necessary to permit 
payment of such pay increases for officers or employees as may be 
authorized by administrative action pursuant to law that are not in 
excess of statutory increases granted for the same period in 
corresponding rates of compensation for other employees of the 
government in comparable positions.
    Sec. 303. Funds appropriated under this Act for expenditures by the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall be available (1) except as 
otherwise authorized by the Act of September 30, 1950 (20 U.S.C. 236-
244), for expenses of primary and secondary schooling for dependents of 
Federal Aviation Administration personnel stationed outside the 
continental United States at costs for any given area not in excess of 
those of the Department of Defense for the same area, when it is 
determined by the Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the 
locality are unable to provide adequately for the education of such 
dependents, and (2) for transportation of said dependents between 
schools serving the area that they attend and their places of residence 
when the Secretary, under such regulations as may be prescribed, 
determines that such schools are not accessible by public means of 
transportation on a regular basis.
    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds for the Panama Canal Commission may be 
expended unless in conformance with the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977 
and any law implementing those treaties.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or implementation of any change in the current Federal status 
of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, and none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the implementation of any 
change in the current Federal status of the Turner-Fairbank Highway 
Research Center: Provided, That the Secretary may plan for further 
development of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center and for 
other compatible uses of the Center's real property: Provided further, 
That any such planning does not alter the Federal status of the 
Center's research and development operation: Provided further, That 
employment at the Center shall not exceed 550 full-time equivalent 
staff years in fiscal year 1995
    Sec. 309. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 310. (a) For fiscal year 1995 the Secretary of Transportation 
shall distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways by 
allocation in the ratio which sums authorized to be Pappropriated for 
Federal-aid highways that are apportioned or allocated to each State 
for such fiscal year bear to the total of the sums authorized to be 
appropriated for Federal-aid highways that are apportioned or allocated 
to all the States for such fiscal year.
    (b) During the period October 1 through December 31, 1994, no State 
shall obligate more than 25 per centum of the amount distributed to 
such State under subsection (a), and the total of all State obligations 
during such period shall not exceed 15 per centum of the total amount 
distributed to all States under such subsection.
    (c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall--
        (1) provide all States with authority sufficient to prevent 
    lapses of sums authorized to be appropriated for Federal-aid 
    highways that have been apportioned to a State;
        (2) after August 1, 1995, revise a distribution of the funds 
    made available under subsection (a) if a State will not obligate 
    the amount distributed during that fiscal year and redistribute 
    sufficient amounts to those States able to obligate amounts in 
    addition to those previously distributed during that fiscal year 
    giving priority to those States having large unobligated balances 
    of funds apportioned under sections 103(e)(4), 104, and 144, of 
    title 23, United States Code, and under sections 1013(c) and 1015 
    of Public Law 102-240;
        (3) not distribute amounts authorized for administrative 
    expenses and funded from the administrative takedown authorized by 
    section 104(a), title 23 U.S.C., the Federal lands highway program, 
    the intelligent vehicle highway systems program, and amounts made 
    available under sections 1040, 1047, 1064, 6001, 6005, 6006, 6023, 
    and 6024, of Public Law 102-240: Provided, That amounts made 
    available under section 6005 of Public Law 102-240 shall be subject 
    to the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway 
    safety construction programs under the head ``Federal-Aid 
    Highways'' in this Act; and
        (4) notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
    withhold from initial distribution the fiscal year 1995 Federal-aid 
    highways obligation limitation set aside for Interstate 
    Construction Discretionary projects: Provided, That the Secretary 
    shall distribute only after August 1, 1995, such obligation 
    limitation withheld in accordance with this section to those States 
    receiving Interstate Construction Discretionary allocations.
    (d) During the period October 1 through December 31, 1994, the 
aggregate amount of obligations under section 157 of title 23, United 
States Code, for projects covered under section 147 of the Surface 
Transportation Assistance Act of 1978, section 9 of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1981, sections 131(b), 131(j), and 404 of Public Law 97-
424, sections 1061, 1103 through 1108, 4008, and 6023(b)(8) and 
6023(b)(10) of Public Law 102-240, and for projects authorized by 
Public Law 99-500 and Public Law P100-17, shall not exceed 
$325,155,150.
    (e) During the period August 2 through September 30, 1995, the 
aggregate amount which may be obligated by all States pursuant to 
paragraph (d) shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the aggregate amount of 
funds apportioned or allocated to all States--
        (1) under sections 104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, 
    and 1013(c) and 1015 of Public Law 102-240, and
        (2) for highway assistance projects under section 103(e)(4) of 
    title 23, United States Code,
which would not be obligated in fiscal year 1995 if the total amount of 
the obligation limitation provided for such fiscal year in this Act 
were utilized.
    (f) Paragraph (e) shall not apply to any State which on or after 
August 1, 1995, has the amount distributed to such State under 
paragraph (a) for fiscal year 1995 reduced under paragraph (c)(2).
    Sec. 311. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than one hundred and ten political and 
Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, 
That none of the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on 
temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 312. Not to exceed $850,000 of the funds provided in this Act 
for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees.
    Sec. 313. The limitation on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
section 21 of the Federal Transit Act, previously made available for 
obligation, or to any other authority previously made available for 
obligation under the discretionary grants program.
    Sec. 314. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 314A. For the purpose of carrying out a demonstration of the 
construction of highways in high priority corridors, authorized by 
section 1105(f) of Public Law 102-240, there is hereby appropriated 
$6,000,000 for the Secretary to enter into an agreement to make a loan 
or loans not to exceed $40,000,000 to the public entity or entities 
with the statutory duty to construct such facilities: Provided, That 
such loan or loans shall be repaid by direct repayment no later than 
the fifth Federal fiscal year following the year in which a loan was 
made. Funds made available by this section shall not be subject to any 
limitation.
    Sec. 315. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1995 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 316. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel 
traffic safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa 
Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic 
Separation Scheme.
    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
instrument landing systems (along with associated approach lighting 
equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to Federal 
Aviation Administration design and performance specifications, the 
purchase of which was assisted by a Federal airport aid program, 
airport development aid program or airport improvement program grant. 
The Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such equipment, which 
shall thereafter be operated and maintained by the Federal Aviation 
Administration in accordance with agency criteria.
    Sec. 318. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in 
excess of $10,000,000 in any one year of the contract or (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the government's 
liability or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which 
the Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 319. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be made 
available for planning and executing a passenger manifest program by 
the Department of Transportation that only applies to United States 
flag carriers.
    Sec. 320. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of section 1038(d) 
of Public Law 102-240.
    Sec. 321. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except 
for fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this 
Act under ``Federal Transit Administration, Discretionary grants'' for 
projects specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying 
this Act not obligated by September 30, 1997, shall be made available 
for other projects under section 3 of the Federal Transit Act, as 
amended.
    Sec. 322. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 1993, under any section of the Federal 
Transit Act, as amended, that remain available for expenditure may be 
transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 323. (a) Of the budgetary resources available to the 
Department of Transportation (excluding the Maritime Administration) 
during fiscal year 1995, $65,120,000 are permanently canceled.
    (b) The Secretary of Transportation shall allocate the amount of 
budgetary resources canceled among the Department's accounts (excluding 
the Maritime Administration) available for procurement and procurement-
related expenses. Amounts available for procurement and procurement-
related expenses in each such account shall be reduced by the amount 
allocated to such account.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the definition of 
``procurement'' includes all stages of the process of acquiring 
property or services, beginning with the process of determining a need 
for a product or services and ending with contract completion and 
closeout, as specified in 41 U.S.C. 403(2).
    Sec. 324. Of the funds appropriated in Public Law 103-122 for 
railroad-highway crossings projects, $20,000,000 shall be available for 
costs, not to exceed 80 percent, of a project to reduce rail-highway 
conflicts on M-59 near Pontiac, Michigan, and a project on Bristol Road 
near Flint, Michigan, including $500,000 which shall be made available 
to improve and upgrade Maple Road at Bishop Airport, Michigan: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated in Public Law 94-387 for 
railroad-highway demonstration projects, $486,000 in unobligated 
balances shall be made available for the rail relocation project in 
Lafayette, Indiana.
    Sec. 324A. For necessary expenses to carry out a pilot project to 
provide direct financial assistance by contract, to a community group 
incorporated for the purpose of protecting the scenic qualities of a 
designated scenic byway, to demonstrate the effect of alternative 
highway designs on the scenic and historic qualities of a scenic byway, 
a sum of $100,000: Provided, That such amount be derived from moneys 
available for contract programs for a national scenic byways study made 
available by Public Law 101-164 (Federal Highway Administration 
Limitation on General Operating Expenses) as further referenced by 
Conference Report 101-315 and not expended as of the date of this Act.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be made 
available to any State, municipality or subdivision thereof that 
diverts revenue generated by a public airport in violation of the 
provisions of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as 
amended.
    Sec. 326. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
implement or enforce regulations that would result in the withdrawal of 
a slot from an air carrier at O'Hare International Airport under 
section 93.223 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations in excess 
of the total slots withdrawn from that air carrier as of October 31, 
1993 if such additional slot is to be allocated to an air carrier or 
foreign air carrier under section 93.217 of title 14 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 327. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to design, construct, erect, modify or otherwise 
place any sign in any State relating to any speed limit, distance, or 
other measurement on any highway if such sign establishes such speed 
limit, distance, or other measurement using the metric system.
    Sec. 327A. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, tolls 
collected for motor vehicles on any bridge connecting the boroughs of 
Brooklyn, New York, and Staten Island, New York, shall continue to be 
collected for only those vehicles exiting from such bridge in Staten 
Island.
    Sec. 328. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be made 
available for any airport development project, or projects, proposed in 
any grant application submitted in accordance with title V of Public 
Law 97-248 (96 Stat. 671; 49 U.S.C. App. 2201 et seq.) to any public 
agency, public authority, or public airport that imposes a fee for any 
passenger enplaning at the airport in any instance where the passenger 
did not pay for the air transportation which resulted in such 
enplanement, including any case in which the passenger obtained the 
ticket for the air transportation with a frequent flyer award coupon.
    Sec. 329. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 335 technical staff years under the federally-funded 
research and  development center contract between the PFederal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 329A. The Secretary of Transportation may enter into grants, 
cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local 
government, any educational institution, and any other entity in 
execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the 
Defense Conversion, Reinvestment and Transition Assistance Act of 1992 
and related legislation: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
section may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 330. Funds provided in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation working capital fund (WCF) shall be reduced by 
$7,000,000, which limits fiscal year 1995 WCF obligational authority 
for elements of the Department of Transportation funded in this Act to 
no more than $93,000,000: Provided, That such reductions from the 
budget request shall be allocated by the Department of Transportation 
to each appropriations account in proportion to the amount included 
from each account for the working capital fund.
    Sec. 331. Funds provided in this Act for bonuses and cash awards 
for employees of the Department of Transportation shall be reduced by 
$5,590,000, which limits fiscal year 1995 obligational authority to no 
more than $25,922,000: Provided, That this provision shall be applied 
to funds for Senior Executive Service bonuses, merit pay, and other 
bonuses and cash awards.
    Sec. 332. Section 127(a) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``With respect to the State 
of Maryland, laws and regulations in effect on June 1, 1993, shall be 
applicable for the purposes of this subsection.''.
    Sec. 332A. The Federal Aviation Administration is directed to 
install a Terminal Doppler Weather Radar at Charlotte, North Carolina 
in fiscal year 1995, and to commission that radar no later than 
December 31, 1995.
    Sec. 333. Funds received by the Research and Special Programs 
Administration from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training and 
for reports' publication and dissemination may be credited to the 
Research and Special Programs account.
    Sec. 334. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited 
respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Limitation on 
General Operating Expenses'' account, the Federal Transit 
Administration's ``Transit Planning and Research'' account, and to the 
Federal Railroad Administration's ``Railroad Safety'' account, except 
for State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 
section 206 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970.
    Sec. 335. (a) Subsection (b) of section 1045 of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1994) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Eligibility for Federal Assistance.--
        ``(1) General rule.--Upon approval of any substitute project or 
    projects under subsection (a)--
            ``(A) the costs of construction of the eligible transitway 
        project for which such project or projects are substituted 
        shall not be eligible for funds authorized under section 108(b) 
        of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956; and
            ``(B) a sum equal to the amount that would have been 
        apportioned to the State of Wisconsin on October 1, 1994, under 
        section 104(b)(5)(A) of title 23, United States Code, if the 
        Secretary had not approved such project or projects shall be 
        available to the Secretary from the Highway Trust Fund to incur 
        obligations for the Federal share of the costs of such 
        substitute project or projects.
        ``(2) Availability.--Amounts made available under paragraph 
    (1)(B) shall be available for obligation on and after October 1, 
    1994. Amounts made available under paragraph (1)(B) shall remain 
    available until expended and shall be subject to any limitation on 
    obligations for Federal-aid highways established by law.
        ``(3) Applicability of title 23 u.s.c.-- Amounts made available 
    under paragraph (1)(B) shall be available for obligation in the 
    same manner as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of 
    title 23, United States Code; except that the Federal share of the 
    cost of any project carried out with such funds shall be determined 
    in accordance with section 103(e)(4)(D) of such title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Subsection (c).--The second sentence of subsection (c) of 
    section 1045 of such Act is amended by striking ``the authority of 
    section 103(e)(4) of title 23, United States Code,'' and inserting 
    ``section 21(a)(2) of the Federal Transit Act''.
        (2) Subsection (d)(1).--Subsection (d)(1) of section 1045 of 
    such Act is amended by striking ``project for'' and all that 
    follows through the period at the end thereof and inserting 
    ``transit project.''.
        (3) Subsection (d).--Subsection (d) of section 1045 of such Act 
    is amended by striking paragraph (3) and by redesignating paragraph 
    (4) as paragraph (3).
    (c) Reduction of Interstate Construction Authorization.--Section 
108(b) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956 is amended by striking 
``$1,800,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996'' and 
inserting ``$1,800,000,000, reduced by the amount made available under 
section 1045(b)(1)(B) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1996''.
    Sec. 335A. Section 5302(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``payments for the capital portions of rail 
trackage rights agreements,'' after ``rights-of-way,''.
    Sec. 336. (a) Federal Line of Credit.--For the purpose of carrying 
out a demonstration of the construction of public toll roads in Orange 
County, California, authorized by section 129(d) of title 23, United 
States Code, there is hereby appropriated $8,000,000 for the Secretary 
to enter into an agreement to make a line of credit available, with a 
principal amount not to exceed $120,000,000 to the public entity or 
entities with the statutory authority to construct such facilities.
    (b) Effective Period.--The line of credit under this section shall 
be available for draws during the period beginning on the date of 
completion of construction and ending on the last day of the tenth 
calendar year following the date construction of the facilities is 
completed.
    (c) Purposes.--The line of credit under this section shall be 
available to pay the costs of extraordinary repair and replacement of 
the facilities, unexpected Federal or State environmental restrictions, 
operation and maintenance expenses of the facilities, and debt service 
on tax-exempt or taxable obligations financing the facilities.
    (d) Limitations.--
        (1) Capital expenditures.--With respect to capital 
    expenditures, draws on the line of credit under this section shall 
    only be made if and to the extent proceeds from the sale of the 
    obligations issued by the public entity or entities which otherwise 
    would be available for such purposes are exhausted, or are 
    otherwise unavailable for the payment of such capital expenditures.
        (2) Expenses.--With respect to expenses, including operation 
    and maintenance expenses and debt service, a draw on the line of 
    credit under this section shall only be made if revenues from toll 
    operations and capitalized interest are insufficient (or are 
    otherwise unavailable) for such purposes.
        (3) Per year.--No more than 10 percent of the total principal 
    amount of the line of credit under this section shall be available 
    for draws in any one year.
        (4) Third party creditor rights.--No third party creditor of 
    the public entity or entities shall have any right against the 
    Federal Government with respect to draws on the line of credit 
    under this section.
        (5) Availability for particular costs.--There is no guaranteed 
    availability of proceeds of the line of credit under this section 
    for the payment of any particular cost of the public entity or 
    entities which might be financed under this section.
    (e) Interest Rate and Repayment Period.--Any draws (except for 
operation and maintenance expenses) on the line of credit under this 
section shall accrue interest at the 30-year United States Treasury 
bond rate beginning on the date such draws are made and shall be repaid 
in not more than 30 years; except that any draws under the line of 
credit for operation and maintenance expenses shall accrue interest at 
the 3-year United States Treasury note rate beginning on the date such 
draws are made and shall be repaid in not more than 3 years.
    Sec. 337. In addition to amounts otherwise provided by this Act, 
$2,900,000 shall be available for ``Interstate Commerce Commission, 
Salaries and Expenses'' for the discharge of liabilities, including 
severance pay, under title 5 of the United States Code to employees 
separated from the Interstate Commerce Commission on or after October 
1, 1994.
    Sec. 338. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 339. Saint Lawrence Seaway Toll Collection.--(a) Section 13 of 
the Act of May 13, 1954, ch. 201 (33 U.S.C. 988a), added by section 
805(a)(4) of title XIV of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, 
Public Law 99-662 (100 Stat. 4272), is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 13. WAIVER OF COLLECTION OF CHARGES OR TOLLS.

    ``(a) Notwithstanding section 12 of this Act or any other provision 
of law, the Corporation shall not collect any charge or toll 
established pursuant to section 12 of this Act with respect to a 
commercial vessel (as defined in section 4462(a)(4) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986).
    ``(b) The Corporation will maintain a record of the annual amount 
of each charge or toll that would have been collected with respect to 
each such commercial vessel if it were not for paragraph (a) of this 
section.''.
    (b) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 19 of title 
33 is amended by striking:
``Sec. 988a Rebate of charges and tolls.
    ``(a) Transfer of revenues to Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.
    ``(b) Certifications to Secretary of the Treasury.''

and adding in lieu thereof:
``Sec. 988a Waiver of Collection of Charges or Tolls.
    ``(a) Waiver of collection of charges or tolls.
    ``(b) Record of annual amount.''.

    Sec. 340. The unspent balance of funds previously appropriated for 
the Meadowbrook Parkway project shall be available for the Loop Parkway 
Bridge rehabilitation project.
    Sec. 341. Amounts not to exceed $3,000,000 available in the 
obligation guarantee fund established under section 511 of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), 
as amended, and received from the Delaware and Hudson Railroad, shall 
be transferred to the Federal Railroad Administration, ``Office of the 
administrator'' for necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad 
Administration.
    Sec. 342. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under Public Law 103-122, the Fiscal Year 1994 Transportation 
Appropriations Act, for the domestic fuel cell development program 
under the Federal Transit Administration's Discretionary Grants account 
shall be transferred to that agency's Transit Planning and Research 
account and be administered in accordance with section 6 of the Federal 
Transit Act, as amended.
    Sec. 343. Section 30308(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``1994'' ``and $2,550,000 for fiscal year 
1995''.
    Sec. 344. Notwithstanding 15 U.S.C. 631, et seq. and 10 U.S.C. 
2301, et seq. as amended, the United States Coast Guard acquisition of 
47-foot Motor Life Boats for fiscal years 1995 through 2000 shall be 
subject to full and open competition for all U.S. shipyards. 
Accordingly, the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) (including but 
not limited to FAR Part 19), shall not apply to the extent they are 
inconsistent with a full and open competition.
    Sec. 345. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
for planning, engineering, design, or construction of a sixth runway at 
the new Denver International Airport, Denver, Colorado: Provided, That 
this provision shall not apply in any case where the Administrator of 
the Federal Aviation Administration determines, in writing, that safety 
conditions warrant obligation of such funds.
    Sec. 346. (a) Uniform HOV-2 Demonstration Project on I-66 in 
Virginia.--Notwithstanding any other law or any prior decision of the 
Secretary of Transportation, the Governor of Virginia shall have the 
authority to carry out a 1-year demonstration project on Interstate 
Highway 66 (I-66) inside the Capital Beltway, to determine the impact 
of applying a uniform high-occupancy vehicle restriction to the portion 
of I-66 that is between the District of Columbia and Interstate Highway 
495 (I-495) and the portion of I-66 that is west of I-495.
    (b) Project Requirements.--
        (1) Uniform hov restriction.--Except as provided in paragraph 
    (2), under the demonstration project established under this 
    section, the uniform high-occupancy vehicle restriction applied to 
    the two portions of I-66 described in subsection (a) shall be 
    vehicles carrying two or more persons.
        (2) Authority of governor of virginia.--During the 1-year 
    demonstration period under this section, the Governor of Virginia 
    shall retain the flexibility to return the high-occupancy vehicle 
    restriction applicable to the portion of I-66 that is between the 
    District of Columbia and I-495 to vehicles carrying three or more 
    persons, or to make any other revisions in the demonstration 
    project that the Governor determines are necessary.
        (3) Approval.--The 1-year demonstration shall begin after 
    approval by the Virginia delegation of the National Capital Region 
    Transportation Planning Board, based on a one-member, one-vote 
    process with the allowance for authorized alternates if necessary 
    and inclusion of the general manager of the Washington Metropolitan 
    Area Transit Authority, but not before January 1, 1995.
    (c) Study and Report.--If the Governor of Virginia makes use of the 
authority granted in subsection (a), the Governor shall--
        (1) consult with interested parties to develop level of service 
    standards, enforcement standards and assessment criteria;
        (2) carry out an assessment of the effects of the uniform high-
    occupancy vehicle restriction under the demonstration project 
    established under this section;
        (3) carry out a study and assessment of the enforcement of the 
    modified high-occupancy vehicle restriction under the demonstration 
    project established under this section;
        (4) within 6 months from beginning the demonstration project 
    provide an interim assessment of the effects of the demonstration 
    project to interested parties; and
        (5) upon completion of the assessment, submit to the Congress 
    and to the Secretary of Transportation a report setting forth the 
    results of the assessment and the demonstration project.
    (d) Uniform HOV-2 Restriction.--Upon completion of the assessment 
described in subsection (c), the Governor of Virginia shall have the 
authority to apply a uniform HOV-2 restriction to Interstate 66 on a 
permanent basis following the formal approval process.
    Sec. 347. The Eastport Port Authority facility at Estes Head in 
Eastport, Maine, is eligible for funding under section 1064 of Public 
Law 102-240.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                             President of the Senate.  