[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2403 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2403
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and 
for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$100,000 for official reception and representation expenses, of which 
$75,000 is for such expenses of the international affairs function of 
the Offices; of which not less than $6,352,000 shall be available for 
enforcement activities; not to exceed $1,500,000 to remain available 
until expended shall be available for systems modernization 
requirements; not to exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction of 
the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his 
certificate; not to exceed $488,000, to remain available until expended, 
for repairs and improvements to the Main Treasury Building and Annex; 
$105,150,000.

                       Office of Inspector General


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,000,000 for 
official travel expenses; not to exceed $100,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under 
the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury; $28,897,000, of 
which $300,000 shall remain available until expended for the Inspectors 
General Auditor Training Institute.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $4,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $18,280,000.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund


                 (limitation of availability of deposits)

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as 
authorized by Public Law 102-393, not to exceed $32,500,000, to be 
derived from deposits in the Fund.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
purchase (not to exceed fifty-two for police-type use) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related 
activities; uniforms without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year; the conducting of and 
participating in firearms matches and presentation of awards; for public 
awareness and enhancing community support of law enforcement training; 
not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
room and board for student interns; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept gifts: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available for 
State and local government law enforcement training on a space-available 
basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on a space-
available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; training of private sector security officials on a space 
available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend State 
and local course development meetings at the Center: Provided further, 
That the Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center shall 
annually present an award to be accompanied by a gift of intrinsic value 
to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training program 
at the Center during the previous fiscal year, to be funded by donations 
received through the Center's gift authority: Provided further, That the 
Center is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements 
from agencies receiving training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center: Provided further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center is authorized to provide short term medical services for students 
undergoing training at the Center; $47,445,000.

      Acquisition, Construction, Improvements, and Related Expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$12,712,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$209,877,000, of which not to exceed $11,539,000, shall remain available 
until expended for systems modernization initiatives.

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed six hundred and fifty 
vehicles for police-type use for replacement only and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; and services of expert witnesses at 
such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per diem 
and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to the 
National Response Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson 
incident requires an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; for training of State 
and local law enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement; 
provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or 
without reimbursement; $366,446,000, not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for hosting or participating in the Interagency Committee on 
Women in Federal Law Enforcement Conference, the Law Enforcement 
Explorer Scouts Conference, and the International Asian Organized Crime 
Conference, of which $22,000,000 shall be available solely for the 
enforcement of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act during fiscal year 
1994 and, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of 
which $1,000,000 shall be available for the equipping of any vessel, 
vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for official use by a State or 
local law enforcement agency if the conveyance will be used in drug-
related joint law enforcement operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms and for the payment of overtime salaries, travel, 
fuel, training, equipment, and other similar costs of State and local 
law enforcement officers that are incurred in joint operations with the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act upon 
applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. section 925(c): 
Provided further, That no funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to implement any reorganization of the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms or transfer of the Bureau's functions, missions, or 
activities to other agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1994: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection 
with consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the 
Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and 
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees.

                      United States Customs Service


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase of up to 1,000 motor vehicles of which 960 are for 
replacement only, including 990 for police-type use and commercial 
operations; hire of motor vehicles; not to exceed $20,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and awards of compensation to 
informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the United States 
Customs Service; $1,350,668,000, of which such sums as become available 
in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to section 
13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1985, as 
amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that Account; of 
the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for 
rental space in connection with preclearance operations, and not to 
exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research: 
Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available by this Act shall be available for 
administrative expenses to pay any employee overtime pay in an amount in 
excess of $25,000: Provided further, That the Commissioner or the 
Commissioner's designee may waive this limitation in individual cases in 
order to prevent excessive costs or to meet emergency requirements of 
the Service: Provided further, That no funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used to reduce to single eight-hour shifts at airports and that 
all current services as provided by the Customs Service shall continue 
through September 30, 1994: Provided further, That not less than 
$750,000 shall be expended for additional part-time and temporary 
positions in the Honolulu Customs District.


      Operation and Maintenance, Air and Marine Interdiction Programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction programs: 
Provided, That no aircraft or other related equipment shall be 
transferred to any other Federal agency, Department, or office outside 
of the Department of the Treasury during fiscal year 1994; $47,863,000.


     Operations and Maintenance, Customs P-3 Drug Interdiction Program

    For necessary expenses of operations, maintenance, modifications to, 
spare parts and related equipment for Customs P-3 surveillance aircraft 
for carrying out drug interdiction purposes; $28,000,000.


             Air and Marine Interdiction Programs, Procurement

    For the procurement, construction, and modification of aircraft and 
marine vessels, equipment, radar, spare parts, and accessories therefor 
of the air and marine interdiction programs; $21,093,000, to remain 
available until expended.


    customs facilities, construction, improvements and related expenses

    For acquisition of necessary additional real property, facilities, 
construction, improvements, and related expenses of the United States 
Customs Service, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Customs Services at Small Airports


                    (to be derived from fees collected)

    Such sums as may be necessary, not to exceed $1,406,000, for 
expenses for the provision of Customs services at certain small airports 
or other facilities when authorized by law and designated by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, including expenditures for the salary and 
expenses of individuals employed to provide such services, to be derived 
from fees collected by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 
236 of Public Law 98-573 for each of these airports or other facilities 
when authorized by law and designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
and to remain available until expended.

                           United States Mint


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Mint; $54,770,000, 
including amounts for purchase and maintenance of uniforms not to exceed 
$285 multiplied by the number of employees of the agency who are 
required by regulation or statute to wear a prescribed uniform in the 
performance of official duties; and of which $1,517,000 shall remain 
available until expended for expansion and improvements.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt


                       Administering the Public Debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States; $187,209,000.


                 Payment of Government Losses in Shipment

    For necessary expenses for ``Payment of Government Losses in 
Shipment'', $500,000, to remain available until expended.

                        Internal Revenue Service


                       Administration and Management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; executive direction, management services, and 
internal audit and security; including purchase (not to exceed 125 for 
replacement only, for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner; 
$167,822,000, of which not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                  Processing Tax Returns and Assistance

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; including processing tax returns; revenue 
accounting; statistics of income; providing assistance to taxpayers; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $1,696,853,000, of which $3,700,000 shall be for the Tax 
Counseling for the Elderly Program, no amount of which shall be 
available for IRS administrative costs.

                           Tax Law Enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; tax and enforcement 
litigation; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; investigation and enforcement activities; securing 
unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; the purchase (for 
police-type use, not to exceed 600, of which not to exceed 450 shall be 
for replacement only), and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Commissioner: Provided, That additional amounts 
above fiscal year 1993 levels for international tax enforcement shall be 
used for the establishment and operation of a task force comprised of 
senior Internal Revenue Service Attorneys, accountants, and economists 
dedicated to enforcement activities related to United States 
subsidiaries of foreign-controlled corporations that are in non-
compliance with the Internal Revenue Code: Provided further, That 
additional amounts above fiscal year 1993 levels for the information 
reporting program shall be used instead for the examination of the tax 
returns of high-income and high-asset taxpayers; $4,007,962,000, of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
research; and of which not less than $350,000,000 shall be available for 
tax fraud investigation activities.

                           Information Systems

    For necessary expenses for data processing and telecommunications 
support for Internal Revenue Service activities, including: returns 
processing and services; compliance and enforcement; program support; 
and tax systems modernization; and for the hire of passenger motor 
vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner: 
$1,471,448,000, of which not less than $570,166,000 is for tax systems 
modernization, and of which not to exceed $60,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for other systems development projects: 
Provided, That of the amounts provided for tax systems modernization not 
to exceed $125,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated for tax systems 
modernization may be obligated until the Commissioner of the Internal 
Revenue Service reports to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate on the implementation of Tax Systems Modernization.

           Administrative Provisions--Internal Revenue Service

    Section 1. Not to exceed 4 per centum of any appropriation made 
available to the Internal Revenue Service for the current fiscal year by 
this Act may be transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service 
appropriation upon the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 2. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and maintain a 
training program to insure that Internal Revenue Service employees are 
trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, 
and in cross-cultural relations.

                      United States Secret Service


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase (not to exceed three hundred and forty-three vehicles 
for police-type use for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to 
perform protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where a protective assignment during the actual 
day or days of the visit of a protectee require an employee to work 16 
hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; the 
conducting of and participating in firearms matches; presentation of 
awards; and for travel of Secret Service employees on protective 
missions without regard to the limitations on such expenditures in this 
or any other Act: Provided, That approval is obtained in advance from 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; for repairs, 
alterations, and minor construction at the James J. Rowley Secret 
Service Training Center; for research and development; for making grants 
to conduct behavioral research in support of protective research and 
operations; not to exceed $12,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 to provide technical 
assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations in 
counterfeit investigations; for payment in advance for commercial 
accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective functions; and 
for uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; $461,931,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 
shall be made available for the protection at the one non-governmental 
property designated by the President of the United States and $70,000 at 
the airport facility used for travel en route to or from such property 
under provisions of section 12 of the Presidential Protection Assistance 
Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note).

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Section 101. Of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to 
the Internal Revenue Service, amounts attributable to efficiency savings 
for fiscal year 1994 shall be identified as such by the Commissioner 
during that fiscal year: Provided, That in the fiscal year when the 
savings are realized, the amount of efficiency savings shall be non-
recurred from the Internal Revenue Service budget base: Provided 
further, That on an annual basis, the Internal Revenue Service shall 
report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees on the status 
of the program.
    Sec. 101A. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1994, shall be made in compliance with the 
reprogramming guidelines contained in the House and Senate reports 
accompanying H.R. 2403, An Act making appropriations for the Treasury 
Department, the United States Postal Service, the Executive Office of 
the President, and certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1994.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations to the Treasury Department in this Act 
shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; 
purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in foreign 
countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for vehicles purchased and used overseas for 
the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the Department of 
State for the furnishing of health and medical services to employees and 
their dependents serving in foreign countries; and services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. Not to exceed 2 per centum of any appropriations in this 
Act for the Department of the Treasury may be transferred between such 
appropriations. Notwithstanding any authority to transfer funds between 
appropriations contained in this or any other Act, no transfer may 
increase or decrease any appropriation in this Act by more than 2 per 
centum and any such proposed transfers shall be approved in advance by 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be used 
in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax imposed 
by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 unless the conduct of officers and 
employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection with such 
collection complies with subsection (a) of section 805 (relating to 
communications in connection with debt collection), and section 806 
(relating to harassment or abuse), of the Fair Debt Collection Practices 
Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall establish an Office of the Undersecretary for 
Enforcement within the Department of the Treasury by no later than 
February 15, 1994.
    Sec. 106. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, hereafter, 
for purposes of complying with Executive Order No. 12839 and guidance 
issued thereunder, the number of civilian personnel positions that the 
Department of the Treasury may be required to eliminate in fiscal year 
1994 and in fiscal year 1995 shall not exceed a number determined for 
each year by multiplying a fiscal year 1993 base which excludes all 
exempt positions by the applicable percentages in Executive Order No. 
12839.
    (b) For the purposes of this section, ``exempt position'' means a 
personnel position in the Department of the Treasury which the Secretary 
of the Treasury determines to be primarily employed in law enforcement.
    Sec. 107. The Internal Revenue Service shall institute policies and 
procedures which will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer 
information.

                          amendments to title 5

    Sec. 108. (a) Title 5 of the United States Code is amended--
        (1) in section 5316, by striking ``Commissioner of Customs, 
    Department of the Treasury.''; and
        (2) in section 5315, by adding at the end ``Commissioner of 
    Customs, Department of the Treasury.''.
    (b) The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the 
first applicable pay period after enactment.
    Sec. 109. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, aircraft 
which is one-of-a-kind and has been identified as excess to Customs 
requirements, and aircraft which is damaged beyond repair, may be 
transferred from the Department of the Treasury during fiscal year 1994 
upon the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 110. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1994 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.

                        TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE

                   Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsection (c) of section 2401 of 
title 39, United States Code; $91,434,000: Provided, That mail for 
overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further, That six-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be used 
to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any officer or 
employee of any State or local child support enforcement agency, or any 
individual participating in a State or local program of child support 
enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided concerning an 
address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural 
and other small post offices in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 
1994.

      Payment to the Postal Service Fund for Nonfunded Liabilities

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for meeting the liabilities 
of the former Post Office Department to the Employees' Compensation Fund 
pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2004, $38,803,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1994''.

                                TITLE III

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                      Compensation of the President

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; $250,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available for official expenses 
shall be expended for any other purpose and any unused amount shall 
revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31 of the 
United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be considered as taxable to the 
President.

                         The White House Office


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as 
provided in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President; $38,754,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House


                            Operating Expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President; $7,925,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109-110, 112-114.

                Official Residence of the Vice President


                            Operating Expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; $324,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                   Special Assistance to the President


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,270,000.

                      Council of Economic Advisers


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021); $3,420,000.

                      Office of Policy Development


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$5,122,000.

                        National Security Council


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $6,648,000.

                        Office of Administration


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration; $24,850,000, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles.

                     Office of Management and Budget


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; $56,539,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000, shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35: Provided, 
That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall be applied 
only to the objects for which appropriations were made except as 
otherwise provided by law: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management and Budget may be 
used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural marketing orders or 
any activities or regulations under the provisions of the Agricultural 
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available for the Office of 
Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the altering of 
the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for testimony of 
officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before the Committee 
on Appropriations or the Committee on Veterans' Affairs or their 
subcommittees: Provided further, That this proviso shall not apply to 
printed hearings released by the Committee on Appropriations or the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy


                           Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; for participation in joint projects or in the provision of 
services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$11,687,000: Provided, That the Office of National Drug Control Policy 
shall hire and maintain not less than 40 full-time equivalent positions 
in fiscal year 1994: Provided further, That the Office is authorized to 
accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for 
the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year; 
$1,000,000.

                      Federal Drug Control Programs


               High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program

                       (Including Transfer of Funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $86,000,000 for 
drug control activities which are consistent with the approved strategy 
for each of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which no less 
than $43,000,000 shall be transferred to State and local entities for 
drug control activities; and of which up to $43,000,000 may be 
transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be 
determined by the Director: Provided, That the funds made available 
under this head shall be obligated within 90 days of enactment of this 
Act.


                          Special Forfeiture Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 100-690, $52,500,000, of 
which $28,000,000 shall be derived from deposits in the Special 
Forfeiture Fund; of which $25,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, and of which 
$10,000,000 shall be available to the Center for Substance Abuse 
Prevention for community partnership grants, and of which $5,000,000 
shall be available to the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention for the 
residential women/children program, and of which $10,000,000 shall be 
available for the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant 
to the States; of which $7,500,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be transferred to the Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center 
for counternarcotics research and development projects and shall be 
available for transfer to other Federal departments or agencies; of 
which $5,000,000 shall be transferred to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms for gang resistance education and training programs; of 
which $6,000,000 shall be transferred to the Internal Revenue Service, 
``Tax law enforcement'' account, for criminal investigations; of which 
$4,000,000 shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement Administration 
for the enhancement of the El Paso Intelligence Center; and of which 
$5,000,000 shall be transferred to drug control agencies in amounts to 
be determined by the Director, upon the advance approval of the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, established by the Administrative Conference Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. 571 et seq.), including not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $1,800,000.
    Section 401. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
Federal agency when purchasing toner cartridges for use in laser 
printers, photocopiers, facsimile machines, or micrographic printers is 
authorized to give preference to remanufactured toner cartridges made in 
the United States by small businesses and, recycled toner cartridges 
unless the contracting or purchasing officer determines in writing 
that--
        (1) adequate market research establishes that remanufactured or 
    recycled cartridges for the type of equipment used by the agency do 
    not exist,
        (2) the price or life cycle cost offered for the cartridges is 
    higher than the original equipment manufacturer's new cartridge, or
        (3) remanufactured or recycled cartridges are not available in 
    quantities needed within the timeframes required.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the purchase of one newly 
manufactured cartridge (or a number equal to those normally supplied at 
the time of initial purchase) as a part of an initial printer or copier 
acquisition.
    (c) The provision of this section shall not affect current law with 
respect to Organizations for the Blind or Other Severely Handicapped 
(NIB/NISH).

         Citizens' Commission on Public Service and Compensation


                           salaries and expenses

                               (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
393, $250,000 are rescinded.

           Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Advisory 
Commission on Intergovernmental Relations Act of 1959, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 4271-79); $1,000,000, and additional amounts collected from the 
sale of publications shall be credited to and used for the purposes of 
this appropriation.

                     General Services Administration

                         Federal Buildings Fund


                  limitations on availability of revenue

    For additional expenses necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), 
$288,486,000, to be deposited into said Fund. The revenues and 
collections deposited into the Fund shall be available for necessary 
expenses of real property management and related activities not 
otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, and protection 
of federally owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings in the 
District of Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving 
governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, approaches 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, taxes, and any other obligations for public buildings acquired 
by installment purchase and purchase contract, in the aggregate amount 
of $5,251,117,306, of which (1) not to exceed $925,027,306 shall remain 
available until expended for construction of additional projects at 
locations and at maximum construction improvement costs (including funds 
for sites and expenses) as follows:
    New Construction:
    Alabama:
        Montgomery, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $13,091,000
    Arkansas:
        Little Rock, Old Law School Building Expansion/Alteration, 
    $13,816,040
    Arizona:
        Phoenix, U.S. Courthouse, $120,000,000
        Safford, a grant to the U.S. Forest Service for Administrative 
    Offices and Cultural Center, $5,000,000
        Sierra Vista, U.S. Magistrates Office, $1,000,000
    California:
        Sacramento, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $143,082,450
        San Jose, Federal Office Building, claim, $1,828,680
        Santa Ana, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $103,000,000
    Florida:
        Jacksonville, U.S. Courthouse, site acquisition and design, 
    $6,070,120
        Tampa, U.S. Courthouse, $66,696,840
    Georgia:
        Atlanta, Centers for Disease Control, Laboratory and office 
    building, $12,000,000
        Augusta, U.S. Courthouse, $1,000,000
    Indiana:
        Hammond, U.S. Courthouse, $49,980,000
    Iowa:
        Burlington, Federal Parking Facility, design and construction, 
    $2,400,000
    Maryland:
        Bowie, Bureau of the Census, Computer Center, $27,915,000
        Montgomery and Prince George's Counties, Food and Drug 
    Administration, consolidation, site acquisition, planning and 
    design, construction, $73,921,000
    Massachusetts:
        Boston, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $18,620,000
    Missouri:
        Cape Girardeau, Federal Office Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
    $3,822,000
        Kansas City, U.S. Courthouse, $16,000,000
        St. Louis, U.S. Courthouse, $24,000,000
    Nebraska:
        Omaha, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $9,361,940
    New Jersey:
        Newark, Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Building and U.S. 
    Courthouse, escalation, $4,293,576
    New York:
        Brooklyn, U.S. Courthouse, $29,400,000
        Rochester, Federal center, in addition to the amount previously 
    provided for this purpose under this heading in Public Law 101-509, 
    $5,000,000
    North Carolina:
        Federal Research Park, Environmental Protection Agency Facility, 
    $8,800,000
    North Dakota:
        Pembina, Border Station, $96,000
    Ohio:
        Youngstown, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, site 
    acquisition and design, $4,630,500
    Oregon:
        Portland, U.S. Courthouse, $96,390,000
    Pennsylvania:
        Scranton, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse Annex, site 
    acquisition and design, $12,093,000
    Texas:
        Laredo, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $2,986,060
    Vermont:
        Highgate Springs, Border Station, $6,851,000
    Washington:
        Lynden, Federal Building, claim, $357,000
    West Virginia:
        Wheeling, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, including 
    renovations to the existing facility, $36,000,000
    Nonprospectus construction projects, $5,525,000:
Provided, That the $5,000,000 for nonprospectus construction projects 
made available in Public Law 102-393 for flexiplace work telecommuting 
centers, is hereby increased by $1,000,000 from the funds made available 
in this Act for nonprospectus construction projects, all of which shall 
remain available until expended, for the acquisition, lease, 
construction, and equipping of four flexiplace work telecommuting 
centers, one of which shall be in Southern Maryland, one of which shall 
be in northwestern Virginia, one of which shall be in Hagerstown, 
Maryland, and one of which shall be in Fredericksburg, Virginia: 
Provided further, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs 
on new construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings 
are effected in other such projects, but by not to exceed 10 per centum: 
Provided further, That all funds for direct construction projects shall 
expire on September 30, 1995, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund 
except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds 
have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under this heading for the 
Northern Virginia Naval Systems Commands, in Public Law 101-509, 
$185,344,000, is hereby rescinded: Provided further, That the amount 
made available under the heading ``New Construction'' in Public Law 102-
393, for Hilo, Hawaii, shall be available for payment to a public entity 
in the State of Hawaii for the construction of facilities to house 
governmental agencies; the governmental agencies to be housed shall be 
designated by the Administrator of General Services and such agencies 
shall be housed rent free, exclusive of operating expenses: Provided 
further, That claims against the Government of less than $100,000 
arising from direct construction projects, acquisitions of buildings and 
purchase contract projects pursuant to Public Law 92-313, be liquidated 
with prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate to the extent savings are effected in other such projects; 
(2) not to exceed $523,782,000, which shall remain available until 
expended, for repairs and alterations: Provided further, That funds in 
the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for 
prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by project as follows, 
except each project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 per 
centum unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate of a greater amount:
    Repairs and Alterations:
    Alaska:
        Juneau, U.S. Post Office and Courthouse, escalation, $4,082,000
    California:
        Richmond, SSA Service Center, $3,742,000
        San Diego, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, $11,023,000
    District of Columbia:
        Central and West Heating Plants, $11,141,000
        Federal Office Building 6, $56,500,000
    Georgia:
        Atlanta, Martin Luther King Jr., Federal Building, $10,063,000
    Illinois:
        Chicago, Federal Records Center, $3,379,000
        Chicago, John C. Kluczynski Jr., Federal Building, $13,414,000
    Indiana:
        Jeffersonville, Federal Center, $13,522,000
    Maryland:
        Baltimore, George H. Fallon Federal Building, escalation, 
    $4,645,000
        Woodlawn, SSA Operations Building, $14,892,000
    Massachusetts:
        Boston, John F. Kennedy Federal Building (phase 3), $19,200,000
    New Jersey:
        Newark, Federal Building, 20 Washington Place, $14,000,000
    New York:
        New York, Federal Building, 201 Varick St., $8,886,000
        New York, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building (phase 2), 
    $14,171,000
    Nationwide:
        Elevators, $27,022,000
        Energy Retrofit Projects, $7,000,000
        Facade Alterations, $10,000,000:
Provided, That of the funds appropriated for Energy Retrofit Projects, 
$6,000,000, may be used to procure and install phosphoric acid fuel 
cells in GSA installations.
    Capital Improvements of United States-Mexico, border facilities, 
$6,800,000 as follows:
    Arizona:
        Lukeville, commercial lot expansion, $3,050,000
        San Luis, commercial office space, $209,000
        San Luis, primary lane expansion and administrative office 
    space, $3,541,000.
    Minor Repairs and Alterations, $270,300,000: Provided, That 
additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully approved may 
be funded under this category only if advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That the difference between the funds appropriated and expended 
on any projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs 
and Alterations'', may be transferred to Minor Repairs and Alterations 
or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects 
shall expire on September 30, 1995, and remain in the Federal Buildings 
Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Minor Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (3) not to exceed $118,108,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts; (4) not to exceed 
$2,117,421,000 for rental of space; (5) not to exceed $1,226,085,000 for 
real property operations; (6) not to exceed $156,613,000 for program 
direction and centralized services; and (7) not to exceed $184,081,000 
for design and construction services which shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That of the funds provided in the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 1994 for the 
modernization of the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, the 
Department of Agriculture may provide up to $6,000,000 to a nonprofit 
entity towards the cost of construction of a facility to house microbial 
collections of the Government under such terms as the Department 
determines are appropriate: Provided further, That the Department is 
authorized to make available sufficient space at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center, at such terms as the Department determines 
are appropriate, for construction of such a facility: Provided further, 
That for the purposes of this authorization, buildings constructed 
pursuant to the purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings 
Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to 
installment purchase contracts, and buildings under the control of 
another department or agency where alterations of such buildings are 
required in connection with the moving of such other department or 
agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under the control of 
the General Services Administration shall be considered to be federally 
owned buildings: Provided further, That none of the funds available to 
the General Services Administration, except for the line-item 
construction and repairs and alterations projects in this Act shall be 
available for expenses in connection with any construction, repair, 
alteration, and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if required 
by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been approved, 
except that necessary funds may be expended for each project for 
required expenses in connection with the development of a proposed 
prospectus: Provided further, That no funds shall be made available for 
leases, line-item construction, repairs, or alterations projects in this 
Act, with the exception of the Safford, Arizona and Rochester, New York 
projects, that are subject to section 7(a) of the Public Buildings Act 
of 1959 (40 U.S.C. 606(a)) prior to February 1, 1994, unless the 
projects are approved by the House Committee on Public Works and 
Transportation and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works: 
Provided further, That subject to the exceptions contained in the 
preceding proviso, in no case shall such funds be made available for any 
lease, line-item construction, repair, or alterations project referred 
to in the preceding proviso if prior to February 1, 1994, the lease, 
line-item construction, repair, or alterations project has been 
disapproved by the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation or 
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works: Provided further, 
That the Administrator of General Services shall submit detailed 
information on each lease, line-item construction, repair, and 
alterations project in this Act that is subject to section 7(a) of the 
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (40 U.S.C. 606(a)) to the House Committee 
on Public Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on 
Environment and Public Works no later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That funds available in the 
Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate: Provided further, That amounts necessary to 
provide reimbursable special services to other agencies under section 
210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such 
reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on 
private or other property not in Government ownership or control as may 
be appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be 
available from such revenues and collections: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 1994, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)(6)) in excess of $5,251,117,306 shall remain in the Fund and 
shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

                         Federal Supply Service


                            operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for property management activities, utilization of excess and 
disposal of surplus personal property, rehabilitation of personal 
property, transportation management activities, transportation audits by 
in-house personnel, procurement, and other related supply management 
activities, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
$43,420,000.

                Information Resources Management Service


                            operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for carrying out governmentwide and internal responsibilities 
relating to automated data management, telecommunications, information 
resources management, and related activities, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $45,675,000.

                   Federal Property Resources Service


                            operating expenses

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for carrying out 
the functions of the Administrator with respect to utilization of excess 
real property; the disposal of surplus real property, the utilization 
survey, deed compliance inspection, appraisal, environmental and 
cultural analysis, and land use planning functions pertaining to excess 
and surplus real property, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; $15,756,000.

                  General Management and Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for Policy 
Direction, Board of Contract Appeals, and accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Claims, and services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $31,435,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for general administrative and staff 
support services, subject to reimbursement by the applicable 
organization or agencies pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of section 
1535 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That not less 
than $825,000 shall be available for personnel and associated costs in 
support of Congressional District and Senate State offices without 
reimbursement from these offices: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$5,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $34,925,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $10,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

            Allowances and Office Staff for Former Presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138; $2,833,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of such Acts.

           General Provisions--General Services Administration

    Section. 1. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 2. Funds available to the General Services Administration shall 
be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 3. Not to exceed 2 per centum of funds made available in 
appropriations for operating expenses and salaries and expenses, during 
the current fiscal year, may be transferred between such appropriations 
for mandatory program requirements. Any proposed transfers shall be 
approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate.
    Sec. 4. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1994 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements. Any proposed transfers shall be approved in 
advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 5. For fiscal year 1993 and thereafter, at no later than the 
end of the fifth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds are 
appropriated or otherwise made available, unobligated balances of 
operating expenses and salaries and expenses appropriations available to 
GSA during such fiscal year may be transferred and merged into the 
``Major equipment acquisitions and development activity'' of the 
Salaries and Expenses, General Management and Administration 
appropriation account for agency-wide acquisition of capital equipment, 
automated data processing systems, and for financial management and 
management information systems needed to implement the Chief Financial 
Officers Act, Public Law 101-576, and any other laws or regulations. The 
unobligated balances transferred shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That any proposed use of these transferred funds in fiscal 
year 1993 and thereafter shall only be made after advance approval by 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 6. (a) The Act entitled ``An Act to provide retirement, 
clerical assistants, and free mailing privileges to former Presidents of 
the United States, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``Sec. 2. The entitlements of a former President under subsections 
(b) and (c) of the first section shall be available--
        ``(1) in the case of an individual who is a former President on 
    the effective date of this section, for 5 years, commencing on such 
    effective date; and
        ``(2) in the case of an individual who becomes a former 
    President after such effective date, for 4 years and 6 months, 
    commencing at the expiration of the period for which services and 
    facilities are authorized to be provided under section 4 of the 
    Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102 note).''.
    (b) Section 3214 of title 39, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``A former President'' and inserting ``(a) 
    Subject to subsection (b), a former President''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Subsection (a) shall cease to apply--
        ``(1) 5 years after the effective date of this subsection, in 
    the case of any individual who, on such effective date--
            ``(A) is a former President (including any individual who 
        might become entitled to the mailing privilege under subsection 
        (a) as the surviving spouse of such a former President); or
            ``(B) is the surviving spouse of a former President; and
        ``(2) 4 years and 6 months after the expiration of the period 
    for which services and facilities are authorized to be provided 
    under section 4 of the Presidential Transition Act of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 
    102 note), in the case of an individual who becomes a former 
    President after such effective date (including any surviving spouse 
    of such individual, as described in the parenthetical matter in 
    paragraph (1)(A)).''.
    (c) The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect 
on October 1, 1993.
    Sec. 7. Section 204 of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 is amended by adding a subsection (i) to provide 
that the Administrator may retain from the proceeds of sales of personal 
property conducted by the General Services Administration amounts 
necessary to recover, to the extent practicable, costs incurred by the 
General Services Administration (or its agent) in conducting such sales. 
The Administrator shall deposit amounts retained into the General Supply 
Fund established under section 109(a) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 and may use such portion of amounts 
so deposited as is necessary to pay (1) direct costs incurred by the 
General Services Administration in conducting sales of personal 
property, and (2) indirect costs incurred by the General Services 
Administration that are reasonably related to those sales. Amounts 
retained that are not needed to pay the direct and indirect costs 
incurred shall periodically, but not less than annually, be transferred 
from the General Supply Fund to the general fund or another appropriate 
account in the Treasury.
    Sec. 8. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of General Services is hereby authorized to acquire a site 
suitable to the General Services Administration of approximately 4 acres 
of land in the City of Tucson, Arizona for a Federal courthouse; this is 
to be accomplished through an exchange with the City of Tucson for 
Federal real property of comparable value in that city under the 
jurisdiction of the General Services Administration.
    Sec. 9. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
or expended in any way for the purpose of the sale, excessing, 
surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Norfork Lake, 
Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, Department of the 
Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.
    Sec. 10. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
or expended in any way for the purpose of the sale, excessing, 
surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Bull Shoals Lake, 
Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, Department of the 
Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.

                     Office of Personnel Management


                           salaries and expenses

                    (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
and advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Director is 
hereby authorized to accept gifts of goods and services, which shall be 
available only for hosting National Civil Service Appreciation 
Conferences. Goods and services provided in connection with the 
conference may include, but are not limited to, food and refreshments; 
rental of seminar rooms, banquet rooms, and facilities; and use of 
communications, printing and other equipment. Awards of minimal 
intrinsic value will be allowed. Gifts provided by an individual donor 
shall not exceed 50 percent of the total value of the gifts provided at 
each location; $118,533,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
made available for the establishment of health promotion and disease 
prevention programs for Federal employees; and in addition $88,519,000 
for administrative expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate 
trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management without regard to 
other statutes, including direct procurement of health benefits 
printing, for the retirement and insurance programs, of which $5,981,000 
shall be transferred at such times as the Office of Personnel Management 
deems appropriate, and shall remain available until expended for the 
costs of automating the retirement recordkeeping systems, together with 
remaining amounts authorized in previous Acts for the recordkeeping 
systems: Provided further, That the provisions of this appropriation 
shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust funds as provided 
by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code: Provided 
further, That, except as may be consistent with regulations of the 
Office of Personnel Management prescribed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made from the Employees Health 
Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or other provider of health 
care services or supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies 
are provided to an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7-1320a-7a), from participation in 
any program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 
et seq.): Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the 
Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order 
9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, accept donations of money, 
property, and personal services in connection with the development of a 
publicity brochure to provide information about the White House Fellows, 
except that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or 
reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of 
such Commission.

                       Office of Inspector General


                           salaries and expenses

                    (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; $4,253,000, and in addition, not to exceed $6,514,000 
for administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel 
Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the Inspector 
General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia and elsewhere.

      Government Payment for Annuitants, Employees Health Benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
amended, $3,805,480,000, to remain available until expended.

       Government Payment for Annuitants, Employee Life Insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, $1,607,000 to remain available until expended.

         Payment to Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized by the Act of May 29, 
1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 
771-75), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil Service Retirement and 
Disability Fund.

  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 1971, 
Public Law 92-28; $1,689,000.

                       Federal Election Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended; $23,564,000, of which not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for reception and representation 
expenses.

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $21,341,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board


                           salaries and expenses

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct procurement 
of survey printing, $24,674,000, together with not to exceed $1,989,000 
for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration


                            operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with National Archives and 
Records Administration and related activities, as provided by law, and 
for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of documents, 
and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $195,482,000, of which 
$5,250,000 for allocations and grants for historical publications and 
records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Archivist of the United 
States is authorized to use any excess funds available from the amount 
borrowed for construction of the National Archives facility, for 
expenses necessary to move into the facility.

                       Office of Government Ethics


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, Public 
Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $8,313,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-
Federal participants to attend an International Conference on Ethics 
shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be available for 
carrying out the Conference without further appropriation.

                        Office of Special Counsel


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), and the 
Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses 
for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $7,992,000.

                         United States Tax Court


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $33,650,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written certificate 
of the judge.
    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Section 501. No part of any appropriation made available in this Act 
shall be used for the purchase or sale of real estate or for the purpose 
of establishing new offices inside or outside the District of Columbia: 
Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to programs which have 
been approved by the Congress and appropriations made therefor.
    Sec. 502. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 504. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the procurement of, or for the payment of, the salary 
of any person engaged in the procurement of any hand or measuring 
tool(s) not produced in the United States or its possessions except to 
the extent that the Administrator of General Services or his designee 
shall determine that a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of 
hand or measuring tools produced in the United States or its possessions 
cannot be procured as and when needed from sources in the United States 
and its possessions, or except in accordance with procedures prescribed 
by section 6-104.4(b) of Armed Services Procurement Regulation dated 
January 1, 1969, as such regulation existed on June 15, 1970: Provided, 
That a factor of 75 per centum in lieu of 50 per centum shall be used 
for evaluating foreign source end products against a domestic source end 
product. This section shall be applicable to all solicitations for bids 
opened after its enactment.
    Sec. 505. None of the funds made available to the General Services 
Administration pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 shall be obligated or expended after 
the date of enactment of this Act for the procurement by contract of any 
service which, before such date, was performed by individuals in their 
capacity as employees of the General Services Administration in any 
position of guards, elevator operators, messengers, and custodians, at 
said date, would be terminated as a result of the procurement of such 
services, except that such funds may be obligated or expended for the 
procurement by contract of the covered services with sheltered workshops 
employing the severely handicapped under Public Law 92-28.
    Sec. 506. None of the funds made available by this Act for the 
Department of the Treasury may be used for the purpose of eliminating 
any existing requirement for sureties on customs bonds.
    Sec. 507. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 1930 
Tariff Act.
    Sec. 508. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for the purpose of transferring control over the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, Georgia, Tucson, Arizona, 
and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Treasury Department.
    Sec. 509. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 510. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee of 
the United States Postal Service, who--
        (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to prohibit 
    or prevent, any officer or employee of the United States Postal 
    Service from having any direct oral or written communication or 
    contact with any Member or committee of Congress in connection with 
    any matter pertaining to the employment of such officer or employee 
    or pertaining to the United States Postal Service in any way, 
    irrespective of whether such communication or contact is at the 
    initiative of such officer or employee or in response to the request 
    or inquiry of such Member or committee; or
        (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, reduces in 
    rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of efficiency rating, 
    denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, transfers, disciplines, 
    or discriminates in regard to any employment right, entitlement, or 
    benefit, or any term or condition of employment of, any officer or 
    employee of the United States Postal Service, or attempts or 
    threatens to commit any of the foregoing actions with respect to 
    such officer or employee, by reason of any communication or contact 
    of such officer or employee with any Member or committee of Congress 
    as described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    Sec. 511. Funds under this Act shall be available as authorized by 
sections 4501-4506 of title 5, United States Code, when the achievement 
involved is certified, or when an award for such achievement is 
otherwise payable, in accordance with such sections. Such funds may not 
be used for any purpose with respect to which the preceding sentence 
relates beyond fiscal year 1994.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of the Treasury by this or any other Act shall be 
obligated or expended to contract out positions in, or downgrade the 
position classifications of, members of the United States Mint Police 
Force and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Police Force, or for 
studying the feasibility of contracting out such positions.
    Sec. 513. The Office of Personnel Management may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1994, accept donations of supplies, services, 
and equipment for the Federal Executive Institute, the Federal Quality 
Institute, and Executive Seminar Centers for the enhancement of the 
morale and educational experience of attendees.
    Sec. 514. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the procurement of, or for the payment of, the salary 
of any person engaged in the procurement of stainless steel flatware not 
produced in the United States or its possessions, except to the extent 
that the Administrator of General Services or his designee shall 
determine that a satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of 
stainless steel flatware produced in the United States or its 
possessions, cannot be procured as and when needed from sources in the 
United States or its possessions or except in accordance with procedures 
provided by section 6-104.4(b) of Armed Services Procurement 
Regulations, dated January 1, 1969. This section shall be applicable to 
all solicitations for bids issued after its enactment.
    Sec. 515. The United States Secret Service may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1994, accept donations of money to off-set 
costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and spouses of former 
Presidents when the former President or spouse travels for the purpose 
of making an appearance or speech for a payment of money or any thing of 
value.
    Sec. 516. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to withdraw the designation of the Virginia Inland Port at Front Royal, 
Virginia, as a United States Customs Service port of entry.
    Sec. 517A. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 517B. (a) Any adjustment required by section 5303 of title 5, 
United States Code, to become effective in fiscal year 1994 in the rates 
of basic pay for the statutory pay systems shall not be made.
    (b) For the purpose of this section, the term ``statutory pay 
system'' has the meaning given such term by section 5302(1) of title 5, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to the Postal Service by 
this Act shall be used to transfer mail processing capabilities from the 
Las Cruces, New Mexico postal facility, and that every effort will be 
made by the Postal Service to recognize the rapid rate of population 
growth in Las Cruces and to automate the Las Cruces, New Mexico postal 
facility in order that mail processing can be expedited and handled in 
Las Cruces.
    Sec. 519. None of the funds in this Act may be used to reduce the 
rank or rate of pay of a career appointee in the SES upon reassignment 
or transfer.
    Sec. 520. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service and has within 
ninety days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year made 
application for restoration to his former position and has been 
certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to 
perform the duties of his former position and has not been restored 
thereto.
    Sec. 521. None of the funds made available to the United States 
Customs Service may be used to collect or impose any land border 
processing fee at ports of entry along the United States-Mexico border.
    Sec. 522. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may, with 
respect to an individual employed by the Bureau of the Public Debt in 
the Washington Metropolitan Region on April 10, 1991, be used to 
separate, reduce the grade or pay of, or carry out any other adverse 
personnel action against such individual for declining to accept a 
directed reassignment to a position outside such region, pursuant to a 
transfer of any such Bureau's operations or functions to Parkersburg, 
West Virginia.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any individual 
who, on or after the date of enactment of this Act, declines an offer of 
another position in the Department of the Treasury which is of at least 
equal pay and which is within the Washington Metropolitan Region.
    Sec. 523. In consideration of the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority (WMATA) modifying its requirement for acquisition of 
General Services Administration (GSA) property at the Suitland Federal 
Center in Suitland, Maryland, GSA shall transfer to WMATA, at no cost, 
approximately sixteen (16) acres of GSA property to allow WMATA to 
construct its proposed Suitland Metrorail Station and related surface 
facilities. GSA will bear no additional costs, as a result of this 
transaction. The property to be transferred is located at the northeast 
quadrant of the intersection of Suitland Parkway at Silver Hill Road and 
is the southeastern most portion of the Suitland Federal Center Complex. 
It is bounded by Silver Hill Road on the southeast, Suitland Parkway 
property owned by the National Park Service on the southwest, the 
existing stream valley between Suitland Parkway and the historic 
Suitland House on the northwest and on the northeast a line just south 
of and parallel to a line from the Suitland House to the existing 
Federal Office Building along Silver Hill Road at Randall Road.
    Sec. 524. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall implement the plan 
announced by the Bureau of the Public Debt on March 19, 1991, to 
consolidate such Bureau's operations in Parkersburg, West Virginia.
    (b) The consolidation referred to in subsection (a) shall be 
completed by December 31, 1995, in accordance with the plan of the 
Bureau of the Public Debt.
    Sec. 525. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including any other law which requires that property of the United 
States be used for a particular purpose, the Administrator of General 
Services shall convey the property described in subsection (c) to the 
State of Maryland.
    (b) Terms.--A conveyance of property under this section shall be--
        (1) by quitclaim deed;
        (2) without monetary consideration; and
        (3) subject to such other terms and conditions as the 
    Administrator determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
known as the ``Chesapeake Bay Study Site'' is property located in the 
State of Maryland, Queen Annes County, which--
        (1) is part of the same land which, by quitclaim deed dated 
    August 25, 1970, and recorded among the land records of Queen Annes 
    County, Maryland, at Liber 53, Folio 200, was granted and conveyed 
    by the State of Maryland, Maryland State Roads Commission, to the 
    United States of America; and
        (2) contains 55 acres more or less according to a survey 
    prepared by McCrone, Inc., in July 1968 and amended on May 26, 1992.
    Sec. 526. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide any non-public information such as mailing or telephone lists 
to any person or any organization outside of the Federal Government 
without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 527. The Administrator of General Services shall promptly 
review the need of the General Services Administration for the parcel of 
land which it controls and which is located at 424 Trapelo Road in the 
City of Waltham, Massachusetts. The Administrator shall promptly 
determine to be excess property so much of said parcel as is no longer 
required for the needs of the General Services Administration. Subject 
to agreement between the Administrator and the Secretary of the Army 
concerning such portion of the excess property as may be required for 
the use of the Corps of Engineers, the Administrator shall transfer such 
portion to the Secretary of the Army without reimbursement. The property 
not included in such transfer shall be determined to be surplus property 
and shall be available only for transfer for a public purpose under 
section 203(k) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act 
of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k)), except that an expression of interest or an 
application for a public purpose use under said section other than for 
educational purposes may not be received after 45 days from the date the 
Administrator determines the property to be surplus. If no transfer 
under section 203(k) has been made within one year after the date of 
such surplus determination, the Administrator may dispose of the 
property in accordance with all applicable provisions of that Act.

SEC. 528. COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICAN ACT.

    No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended by an 
entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance the 
entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 
(41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').

SEC. 529. SENSE OF CONGRESS; REQUIREMENT REGARDING NOTICE.

    (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case 
of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased with 
financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in expending 
the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

SEC. 530. PROHIBITION OF CONTRACTS.

    If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that 
any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' 
inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product 
sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or 
subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant to 
the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 531. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
any law which requires that property of the United States be used for a 
particular purpose, the Administrator of General Services shall transfer 
to the Secretary of the Interior jurisdiction over the 1.9592 acres of 
land, and any related structures, located at the southwest corner of 
12th and Indian School Road, N.W., Albuquerque, New Mexico, and 
described as follows:
    A tract of land being within the original Old Indian School Boundary 
and situated within the east half (E\1/2\), Section 7, T. sec. 10 N., R. 
3E, New Mexico Principal Meridian, Bernalillo County, New Mexico, being 
more particularly described by metes and bounds as follows:
    Beginning at the southwest corner of said tract being a point 
intersecting the easterly right-of-way of 12th Street and the southerly 
line of the original 1905 Indian School property, being a brass cap 
marked ``R/W 12th St. & Tr. A, cor. 1'', ``KEENE 8489''; Whence from 
said point of beginning, the New Mexico State Highway Triangulation 
Station I-40-15, having an established coordinate of Y=1,494,103.76 and 
X=378,204.72, central zone on the New Mexico coordinate system, being a 
brass cap, bears S. 12+19,44"E., and is a distance of 927.86 feet; 
Thence N. 08+26,59" E. 79.89 feet along the said easterly right-of-way 
to a rebar/cap ``KEENE 8489''; Thence S. 68+50,15" E., a distance of 
98.29 feet to a rebar; Thence N. 21+43,45" E., 133.44 feet to a rebar; 
Thence S. 64+46,15" E., 154.00 feet to a rebar; Thence N. 22+47,56" E., 
12.94 feet to a rebar; Thence S. 67+47,51" E., 79.53 feet to a rebar; 
Thence S. 20+06,41" W., 40.33 feet to a rebar; Thence S. 67+16,45" E., 
105.98 feet to a nail in concrete; Thence S. 22+19,15" W., 224.22 feet 
to a nail in pavement; Thence N. 74+56,54" W., 1.33 feet to an angle 
point being a brass cap marked ``Tr. A, cor. 13 & Tr. B, cor. 4'', 
``KEENE 8489''; Thence N. 61+14,00" W., 125.73 feet to an angle point 
being a brass cap marked ``Tr. A, cor. 14 & Tr. 1, cor. 2/ Tr. B, cor. 
3'', ``KEENE 8489''; Thence N. 61+14,00" W., 294.33 feet to the point 
and place of beginning. Said tract contains an area of 1.9592 acres.
    (b) Lands and related structures described in subsection (a) shall, 
on and after the transfer of jurisdiction required under subsection (a), 
be held by the United States in trust for the benefit and use of the 
Nineteen Indian Pueblo Tribes of New Mexico comprising the All Indian 
Pueblo Council as tenants in common.
    (c) The transfer of the property described in subsection (a) shall 
be without monetary consideration.
    (d) Lands and related structures held in trust for the benefit and 
use of the Nineteen Indian Pueblo Tribes of New Mexico under subsection 
(b) shall have the same tax-exempt status as that of other lands and 
structures held in trust by the United States for the benefit and use of 
an Indian tribe, including exemption from taxes imposed by any State, 
county, city or other local governmental entity, and shall be exempt 
from any associated land use regulation imposed by any such governmental 
entity.
    (e) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use by the Nineteen 
Indian Pueblo Tribes of New Mexico of the land and related structures 
described in subsection (a) in conjunction with their existing plans for 
the economic development of the former Albuquerque Indian School 
property conveyed as trust lands on January 15, 1993.
    (f) As used in this section, the term ``Nineteen Indian Pueblo 
Tribes of New Mexico'' means the following:
        1. Pueblo of Acoma.
        2. Pueblo of Isleta.
        3. Pueblo of Laguna.
        4. Pueblo of Picuris.
        5. Pueblo of San Felipe.
        6. Pueblo of San Ildefonso.
        7. Pueblo of San Juan.
        8. Pueblo of Santo Domingo.
        9. Pueblo of Tesuque.
        10. Pueblo of Zuni.
        11. Pueblo of Cochiti.
        12. Pueblo of Jemez.
        13. Pueblo of Nambe.
        14. Pueblo of Pojoaque.
        15. Pueblo of Sandia.
        16. Pueblo of Santa Ana.
        17. Pueblo of Santa Clara.
        18. Pueblo of Taos.
        19. Pueblo of Zia.
    Sec. 532. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including any other law which requires that property of the United 
States be used for a particular purpose, the real property described in 
subsection (c) shall be conveyed to the United States Park Service, 
Department of the Interior, by the Administrator of General Services at 
such time as the property is reported to the General Services 
Administration for disposal as excess to the needs of the Air Force.
    (b) Terms.--A conveyance of property under this section shall be 
without monetary consideration, and subject to such other terms and 
conditions as the Administrator determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Property Described.--The real property referred to in subsection 
(a) is that part of the Holbrook Radar Bomb Scoring Site, including 
housing units, situated in the W\1/2\ of the SE\1/4\ of Section 36, 
Township 18 North, Range 20 East, G&SRM, Navajo County, Arizona, and 
more particularly described as:
        Lots 1, 2, and 3 and Tract A of Cholla Townhomes Subdivision, a 
    subdivision recorded in Book 14 of Plats at Page 19 in the official 
    records of Navajo County, Arizona; Except an undivided one-half 
    interest in all oil, gas, coal, and other hydro-carbon substances 
    and minerals as reserved in instrument recorded in Docket 68 at Page 
    171 in said official records;
        Containing 8.00 acres, more or less.
    Together with Units 2A, 3A, 4B, 5B, 6A, 7A, 8B, 9B, 10A, 11A, and 
12B of the Cholla Townhomes Condominium, a subdivision recorded in Book 
14 of Plats at Page 20 in the official records of Navajo County, 
Arizona, and any other buildings and improvements thereon and all 
rights, hereditaments, easements, and appurtenances thereunto belonging 
or in anywise appertaining.
    Subject, however, to existing easements for public roads and 
highways, public utilities, railroads, and pipelines, and subject to the 
following outstanding exceptions and rights:
        An undivided one-half interest in all oil, gas, coal or other 
    hydro-carbon substances and minerals in, upon, or under said land, 
    and the right to the use of such portions of the surface of said 
    land as may be necessary for the proper exploration, mining or 
    otherwise extracting and removing said oil, gas, coal or other 
    hydro-carbon substances and minerals as reserved in instrument 
    recorded in Docket 68 at Page 171, official records of Navajo 
    County, Arizona.
        Easements as shown on the plat of Cholla Townhomes subdivision 
    recorded in Book 14 of Plats at Page 19 in the official records of 
    Navajo County, Arizona.
        Easements and right incident thereto for sewer purposes as set 
    forth in instrument recorded in Docket 601 at Page 924 of the 
    official records of Navajo County, Arizona.
        Easements created by and the effect of the Declaration of 
    Horizontal Property Regime recorded in Docket 679 at Page 773 in the 
    official records of Navajo County, Arizona, and Certificate of 
    Correction recorded in Docket 678 at Page 815 in said official 
    records.
        Easement and rights incident thereto for electric lines as set 
    forth in instrument recorded in Docket 883 at Page 213 of the 
    official records of Navajo County, Arizona.
        Liabilities and obligations imposed upon said land by reason of 
    its inclusion within the Navajo County Flood Control District.

               TITLE VI--GOVERNMENTWIDE GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Section  601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1994 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act of September 13, 
1982 (Public Law 97-258, 31 U.S.C. 1345), any agency, department or 
instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision 
of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant to 
this section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum amount 
allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with section 16 
of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), for the purchase of any 
passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law 
enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is hereby fixed at 
$7,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall be $8,100: 
Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed $3,700 for 
police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for special heavy-duty 
vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
may not be exceeded by more than five percent for electric or hybrid 
vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles.
    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5992-24.
    Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified during the current fiscal year 
no part of any appropriation contained in this or any other Act shall be 
used to pay the compensation of any officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States (including any agency the majority of 
the stock of which is owned by the Government of the United States) 
whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such 
person (1) is a citizen of the United States, (2) is a person in the 
service of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act who, 
being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of intention to 
become a citizen of the United States prior to such date and is actually 
residing in the United States, (3) is a person who owes allegiance to 
the United States, (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, South Vietnam, the 
countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic countries lawfully 
admitted to the United States for permanent residence, or (5) South 
Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Laotian refugees paroled in the United States 
after January 1, 1975, or (6) nationals of the People's Republic of 
China that qualify for adjustment of status pursuant to the Chinese 
Student Protection Act of 1992: Provided, That for the purpose of this 
section, an affidavit signed by any such person shall be considered 
prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section with respect 
to his or her status have been complied with: Provided further, That any 
person making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon 
conviction, shall be fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not 
more than one year, or both: Provided further, That the above penal 
clause shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for, any other 
provisions of existing law: Provided further, That any payment made to 
any officer or employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall 
be recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This section shall 
not apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, the Republic of the 
Philippines or to nationals of those countries allied with the United 
States in the current defense effort, or to international broadcasters 
employed by the United States Information Agency, or to temporary 
employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the field 
service (not to exceed sixty days) as a result of emergencies.
    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available: Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the 
Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. Pursuant to section 1415 of the Act of July 15, 1952 (66 
Stat. 662), foreign credits (including currencies) owed to or owned by 
the United States may be used by Federal agencies for any purpose for 
which appropriations are made for the current fiscal year (including the 
carrying out of Acts requiring or authorizing the use of such credits), 
only when reimbursement therefor is made to the Treasury from applicable 
appropriations of the agency concerned: Provided, That such credits 
received as exchanged allowances or proceeds of sales of personal 
property may be used in whole or part payment for acquisition of similar 
items, to the extent and in the manner authorized by law, without 
reimbursement to the Treasury.
    Sec. 611. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards, 
commissions, councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not 
they are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and specific 
statutory approval to receive financial support from more than one 
agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 612. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
``Postal Service Fund'' (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for 
employment of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by 
the Postal Service and under the charge and control of the Postal 
Service, and such guards shall have, with respect to such property, the 
powers of special policemen provided by the first section of the Act of 
June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to 
property owned or occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General 
may take the same actions as the Administrator of General Services may 
take under the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 
1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a, 318b), attaching thereto 
penal consequences under the authority and within the limits provided in 
section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
    Sec. 614. No part of any appropriation contained in, or funds made 
available by, this or any other Act, shall be available for any agency 
to pay to the Administrator of the General Services Administration a 
higher rate per square foot for rental of space and services 
(established pursuant to section 210(j) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended) than the rate per 
square foot established for the space and services by the General 
Services Administration for the fiscal year for which appropriations 
were granted.
    Sec. 615. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no part 
of any of the funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on September 
30, 1994, by this or any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing 
rate employee described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United 
States Code--
        (A) during that portion of fiscal year 1994 which precedes the 
    start of the period described in subparagraph (B), in an amount that 
    exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade and step of the 
    applicable wage schedule in accordance with section 616 of the 
    Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 
    1993, on the last day of the limitation imposed by such section 616; 
    and
        (B) during the period from the date determined under paragraph 
    (2) until the end of fiscal year 1994, in an amount that exceeds the 
    maximum rate allowable under subparagraph (A) by more than the 
    amount determined under paragraph (3).
    (2) The period under paragraph (1)(B) shall begin on the first day 
of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after the later of--
        (A) the normal effective date of the applicable wage survey 
    adjustment that is to become effective in fiscal year 1994 
    (determined as if this section and section 616 of the Treasury, 
    Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1993, 
    were not in effect); or
        (B) January 1, 1994.
    (3)(A) If, during fiscal year 1994, employees under the General 
Schedule receive locality-based comparability payments under section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, but do not receive a pay adjustment 
under section 5303 of such title, the applicable amount under this 
paragraph shall be equal to one-fifth of the difference between the 
maximum amount allowable under paragraph (1)(A) and the amount that 
would be payable under subchapter IV of chapter 53 of such title (taking 
into account the applicable wage survey adjustment referred to in 
paragraph (2)(A)) were this section and section 616 of the Treasury, 
Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1993, not in 
effect.
    (B) If, during fiscal year 1994, employees under the General 
Schedule receive a pay adjustment under section 5303 of title 5, United 
States Code, and locality-based comparability payments under section 
5304 of such title, the applicable amount under this paragraph shall be 
equal to--
        (i) the amount determined under subparagraph (A); and
        (ii) the amount resulting from an increase of 2.2 percent.
    (C) The applicable amount under this paragraph shall be zero if 
neither subparagraph (A) nor subparagraph (B) applies.
    (4) The Office of Personnel Management shall discuss with and 
consider the views of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee in 
carrying out the Office's responsibilities with respect to this 
paragraph.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this section and who is paid from a schedule 
that was not in existence on September 30, 1993, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1993, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
    (e) The provisions of this section shall apply with respect to pay 
for services performed by any affected employee on or after October 1, 
1993.
    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
section 8431 of title 5, United States Code, and any rule or regulation, 
that provides premium pay, retirement, life insurance, or any other 
employee benefit) that requires any deduction or contribution, or that 
imposes any requirement or limitation, on the basis of a rate of salary 
or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay payable after the 
application of this section shall be treated as the rate of salary or 
basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe any regulations 
which may be necessary to carry out this section.
    Sec. 616. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 617. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 112 and 113 
of title 3, United States Code, each Executive agency detailing any 
personnel shall submit a report on an annual basis in each fiscal year 
to the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations on all employees or 
members of the armed services detailed to Executive agencies, listing 
the grade, position, and offices of each person detailed and the agency 
to which each such person is detailed.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
        (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
        (2) the National Security Agency;
        (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
        (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
    collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
    reconnaissance programs;
        (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of 
    State;
        (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
    and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice, the 
    Department of the Treasury, the Department of Transportation, and 
    the Department of Energy performing intelligence functions; and
        (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    (c) The exemptions in part (b) of this section are not intended to 
apply to information on the use of personnel detailed to or from the 
intelligence agencies which is currently being supplied to the Senate 
and House Intelligence and Appropriations Committees by the executive 
branch through budget justification materials and other reports.
    (d) For the purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency'' 
has the same meaning as defined under section 105 of title 5, United 
States Code (except that the provisions of section 104(2) of title 5, 
United States Code, shall not apply), and includes the White House 
Office, the Executive Residence, and any office, council, or 
organizational unit of the Executive Office of the President.
    Sec. 618. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1994 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard 
Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, 
form or agreement if such policy, form or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions:
    ``These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede 
conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights or 
liabilities created by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, 
United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of 
title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the 
military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended 
by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of 
illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the 
Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) 
(governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents), and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, 
and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The 
definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and 
liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are 
incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling.''.
    Sec. 619. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 620. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be expended by any Federal agency to procure any product or 
service that is subject to the provisions of Public Law 89-306 and that 
will be available under the procurement by the Administrator of General 
Services known as ``FTS2000'' unless--
        (1) such product or service is procured by the Administrator of 
    General Services as part of the procurement known as ``FTS2000''; or
        (2) that agency establishes to the satisfaction of the 
    Administrator of General Services that--
            (A) the agency's requirements for such procurement are 
        unique and cannot be satisfied by property and service procured 
        by the Administrator of General Services as part of the 
        procurement known as ``FTS2000''; and
            (B) the agency procurement, pursuant to such delegation, 
        would be cost-effective and would not adversely affect the cost-
        effectiveness of the FTS2000 procurement.
    (b) After July 31, 1994, subsection (a) shall apply only if the 
Administrator of General Services has reported that the FTS2000 
procurement is producing prices that allow the Government to satisfy its 
requirements for such procurement in the most cost-effective manner.
    Sec. 620A. Subsections (c) and (d) of section 3726 of title 31, 
United States Code, are amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Expenses of transportation audit postpayment contracts and 
contract administration, and the expenses of all other transportation 
audit and audit-related functions conferred upon the Administrator of 
General Services, shall be financed from overpayments collected from 
carriers on transportation bills paid by the Government and other 
similar type refunds, not to exceed collections. Payment to any 
contractor for audit services shall not exceed 50 percent of the 
overpayment identified by contract audit.
    ``(d) At least annually, and as determined by the Administrator, 
after making adequate provision for expense of refunds to carriers, 
transportation audit postpayment contracts, contract administration, and 
other expenses authorized in subsection (c), overpayments collected by 
the General Services Administration shall be transferred to 
miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury. A report of receipts, 
disbursements, and transfers (to miscellaneous receipts) pursuant to 
this section shall be made annually in connection with the budget 
estimates to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and to 
the Congress.''.
    Sec. 621. (a) No amount of any grant made by a Federal agency shall 
be used to finance the acquisition of goods or services (including 
construction services) unless the recipient of the grant agrees, as a 
condition for the receipt of such grant, to--
        (1) specify in any announcement of the awarding of the contract 
    for the procurement of the goods and services involved (including 
    construction services) the amount of Federal funds that will be used 
    to finance the acquisition; and
        (2) express the amount announced pursuant to paragraph (1) as a 
    percentage of the total costs of the planned acquisition.
    (b) The requirements of subsection (a) shall not apply to a 
procurement for goods or services (including construction services) that 
has an aggregate value of less than $500,000.
    Sec. 622. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1994 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order 
Numbered 12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 623. Notwithstanding any provisions of this or any other Act, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, any department, 
division, bureau, or office may use funds appropriated by this or any 
other Act to install telephone lines, necessary equipment, and to pay 
monthly charges, in any private residence or private apartment of an 
employee who has been authorized to work at home in accordance with 
guidelines issued by the Office of Personnel Management: Provided, That 
the head of the department, division, bureau, or office certifies that 
adequate safeguards against private misuse exist, and that the service 
is necessary for direct support of the agency's mission.
    Sec. 624. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 3302 
of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the Office of 
Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee that the 
Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in order to 
detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
        (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
        (2) the National Security Agency;
        (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
        (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
    collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
    reconnaissance programs;
        (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of 
    State;
        (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
    and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice, the 
    Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing 
    intelligence functions; and
        (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.
    Sec. 625. None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used to relocate the Department of Justice Immigration Judges 
from offices located in Phoenix, Arizona to new quarters in Florence, 
Arizona without the prior approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 626. None of the funds made available in this Act for 
``Allowances and Office Staff for Former Presidents'' may be used for 
partisan political activities.
    Sec. 627. Section 635 of the Public Law 102-393 is amended in 
paragraph (c)(2) by striking ``1993'' and inserting ``1994''.
    Sec. 628. Section 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act 
of 1990 is amended by striking ``Washington, DC-MD-VA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area'' and inserting in its place, ``Washington-Baltimore 
DC-MD-VA-WV Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area''.
    Sec. 629. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1994 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency or instrumentality has in place by July 1, 1994, and 
will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to 
ensure that all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and 
sexual harassment and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of 
title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age 
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 
1973.

                    TITLE VII--REVENUE FORGONE REFORM


                      SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS

    Sec. 701. (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Revenue 
Forgone Reform Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this title is as 
follows:

Sec. 701. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 702. References.
Sec. 703. Repeal of authorization of appropriations for mail sent at 
          reduced rates of postage.
Sec. 704. Establishing reduced rates of postage.
Sec. 705. Eligibility of certain mailings for reduced rates of postage.
Sec. 706. Provisions relating to rates for books and certain other 
          materials.
Sec. 707. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 708. Technical corrections.


                                REFERENCES

    Sec. 702. Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this 
title an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, 
or a repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be 
considered to be made to a section or other provision of title 39, 
United States Code.


    REPEAL OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR MAIL SENT AT REDUCED 
                            RATES OF POSTAGE

    Sec. 703. (a) In General.--Section 2401(c) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence--
            (A) by striking ``if sections'' through ``had not been 
        enacted'' and inserting ``if sections 3217 and 3403 through 3406 
        had not been enacted''; and
            (B) by striking ``such sections and Acts.'' and inserting 
        ``such sections.''; and
        (2) in the second sentence--
            (A) by striking ``(i)''; and
            (B) by striking ``volume;'' through ``schedules.'' and 
        inserting ``volume.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to appropriations for fiscal years beginning after 
September 30, 1993.


                   ESTABLISHING REDUCED RATES OF POSTAGE

    Sec. 704. (a) Rates.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3626(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, rates of 
postage for a class of mail or kind of mailer under former section 4358, 
4452(b), 4452(c), 4454(b), or 4454(c) of this title shall be established 
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
    ``(2) For the purpose of this subsection--
        ``(A) the term `costs attributable', as used with respect to a 
    class of mail or kind of mailer, means the direct and indirect 
    postal costs attributable to such class of mail or kind of mailer 
    (excluding any other costs of the Postal Service);
        ``(B) the term `regular-rate category' means any class of mail 
    or kind of mailer, other than a class or kind referred to in 
    paragraph (3)(A) or section 2401(c); and
        ``(C) the term `institutional-costs contribution', as used with 
    respect to a class of mail or kind of mailer, means that portion of 
    the estimated revenues to the Postal Service from such class of mail 
    or kind of mailer which remains after subtracting an amount equal to 
    the estimated costs attributable to such class of mail or kind of 
    mailer.
    ``(3)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (4) or (5), rates of 
postage for a class of mail or kind of mailer under former section 4358, 
4452(b), 4452(c), 4554(b), or 4554(c) of this title shall be established 
in a manner such that the estimated revenues to be received by the 
Postal Service from such class of mail or kind of mailer shall be equal 
to the sum of--
        ``(i) the estimated costs attributable to such class of mail or 
    kind of mailer; and
        ``(ii) the product derived by multiplying the estimated costs 
    referred to in clause (i) by the applicable percentage under 
    subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) The applicable percentage for any class of mail or kind of 
mailer referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be the product derived by 
multiplying--
        ``(i) the percentage which, for the most closely corresponding 
    regular-rate category, the institutional-costs contribution for such 
    category represents relative to the estimated costs attributable to 
    such category of mail, times
        ``(ii)(I) one-twelfth, for fiscal year 1994;
        ``(II) one-sixth, for fiscal year 1995;
        ``(III) one-fourth, for fiscal year 1996;
        ``(IV) one-third, for fiscal year 1997;
        ``(V) five-twelfths, for fiscal year 1998; and
        ``(VI) one-half, for any fiscal year after fiscal year 1998.
    ``(C) Temporary special authority to permit the timely 
implementation of the preceding provisions of this paragraph is provided 
under section 3642.
    ``(D) For purposes of establishing rates of postage under this 
subchapter for any of the classes of mail or kinds of mailers referred 
to in subparagraph (A), subclauses (I) through (V) of subparagraph 
(B)(ii) shall be deemed amended by striking the fraction specified in 
each such subclause and inserting `one-half'.
    ``(4) The rates for the advertising portion of any mail matter under 
former section 4358(d) or 4358(e) of this title shall be equal to the 
rates for the advertising portion of the most closely corresponding 
regular-rate category of mail, except that if the advertising portion 
does not exceed 10 percent of the issue of the publication involved, the 
advertising portion shall be subject to the same rates as apply to the 
nonadvertising portion.
    ``(5) The rates for any advertising under former section 4358(f) of 
this title shall be equal to 75 percent of the rates for advertising 
contained in the most closely corresponding regular-rate category of 
mail.''.
        (2) Special authority.--Subchapter III of chapter 36 is amended 
    by adding at the end the following:

``§3642. Special authority relating to reduced-rate categories of 
            mail

    ``(a) In order to permit the timely implementation of section 
3626(a)(3), the Postal Service may establish temporary rates of postage 
for any class of mail or kind of mailer referred to in section 
3626(a)(3)(A).
    ``(b) Any exercise of authority under this section shall be in 
conformance with the requirements of section 3626(a), subject to the 
following:
        ``(1) All attributable costs and institutional-costs 
    contributions assumed shall be the same as those which were assumed 
    for purposes of the then most recent proceedings under subchapter II 
    pursuant to which rates of postage for the class of mail or kind of 
    mailer involved were last adjusted.
        ``(2) Any temporary rate established under this section shall 
    take effect upon such date as the Postal Service may determine, 
    except that--
            ``(A) such a rate may take effect only after 10 days' notice 
        in the Federal Register; and
            ``(B) no such rate may take effect after September 30, 1998.
        ``(3) A temporary rate under this section may remain in effect 
    no longer than the last day of the fiscal year in which it first 
    takes effect.
        ``(4) Authority under this section may not be exercised in a 
    manner that would result in more than 1 change taking effect under 
    this section, during the same fiscal year, in the rates of postage 
    for a particular class of mail or kind of mailer, except as provided 
    in paragraph (5).
        ``(5) Nothing in paragraph (4) shall prevent an adjustment under 
    this section in rates for a class of mail or kind of mailer with 
    respect to which any rates took effect under this section earlier in 
    the same fiscal year if--
            ``(A) the rates established for such class of mail or kind 
        of mailer by the earlier adjustment are superseded by new rates 
        established under subchapter II; and
            ``(B) authority under this paragraph has not previously been 
        exercised with respect to such class of mail or kind of mailer 
        based on the new rates referred to in subparagraph (A).
    ``(c) The Postal Service may prescribe any regulations which may be 
necessary to carry out this section, including provisions governing the 
coordination of adjustments under this section with any other 
adjustments under this title.
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any provision of section 3626(a)(3)(B) or 
subsection (a) of this section, any temporary rates established under 
this section for non-letter-shaped mail under former section 4452(b) or 
4452(c) of this title shall not be lower than the rates in effect for 
such mail on September 30, 1993.''.
        (3) Technical and conforming amendments.--
            (A) Section 3626.--Section 3626(i) is repealed.
            (B) Section 3627.--
                (i) In general.--Section 3627 is amended--

                    (I) by striking ``sent at a free or reduced rate 
                under section 3217, 3403-3406, 3626, or 3629 of this 
                title,'' and inserting ``sent free of postage under 
                section 3217 or 3403-3406''; and
                    (II) in the section heading by striking ``and 
                reduced''.

                (ii) Table of contents.--The table of contents for 
            chapter 36 is amended--

                    (I) by striking the item relating to section 3627 
                and inserting the following:

``3627. Adjusting free rates.'';

                and
                    (II) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                3641 the following:

``3642. Special authority relating to reduced-rate categories of 
          mail.''.

    (b) Authorization.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2401 is amended--
            (A) by striking subsections (d) through (f);
            (B) by redesignating subsections (g) through (i) as 
        subsections (e) through (g), respectively;
            (C) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated by subparagraph 
        (B)) by striking the second sentence;
            (D) in subsection (g) (as so redesignated by subparagraph 
        (B)) by striking ``subsections (b) and (d) of this section'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (b)''; and
            (E) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) As reimbursement to the Postal Service for losses which it 
incurred as a result of insufficient amounts appropriated under section 
2401(c) for fiscal years 1991 through 1993, and to compensate for the 
additional revenues it is estimated the Postal Service would have 
received under the provisions of section 3626(a), for the period 
beginning on October 1, 1993, and ending on September 30, 1998, if the 
fraction specified in subclause (VI) of section 3626(a)(3)(B)(ii) were 
applied with respect to such period (instead of the respective fractions 
specified in subclauses (I) through (V) thereof), there are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Postal Service $29,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1994 through 2035.''.
        (2) Ratemaking limitations.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        rates of postage may not be established, under subchapter II of 
        chapter 36 of title 39, United States Code, in a manner designed 
        to allow the United States Postal Service to receive through 
        revenues any portion of the additional revenues (referred to in 
        section 2401(d) of such title, as amended by paragraph (1)(E)) 
        for which amounts are authorized to be appropriated under such 
        section 2401(d).
            (B) Exception.--If Congress fails to appropriate an amount 
        authorized under section 2401(d) of title 39, United States Code 
        (as amended by paragraph (1)(E)), rates for the various classes 
        of mail may be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of 
        subchapter II of chapter 36 of such title (excluding section 
        3627 thereof) such that the resulting increase in revenues will 
        equal the amount that Congress so failed to appropriate.
    (c) Applicability.--
        (1) Rates.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply 
    with respect to rates for mail sent after September 30, 1993.
        (2) Authorization.--The amendments made by subsection (b) shall 
    apply with respect to appropriations for fiscal years beginning 
    after September 30, 1993.


       ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN MAILINGS FOR REDUCED RATES OF POSTAGE

    Sec. 705. (a) Advertising.--Section 3626(j)(1) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``or'' after the semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (C) by striking the period and inserting ``; 
    or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(D) any product or service (other than any to which 
    subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) relates), if--
            ``(i) the sale of such product or the providing of such 
        service is not substantially related (aside from the need, on 
        the part of the organization promoting such product or service, 
        for income or funds or the use it makes of the profits derived) 
        to the exercise or performance by the organization of one or 
        more of the purposes constituting the basis for the 
        organization's authorization to mail at such rates; or
            ``(ii) the mail matter involved is part of a cooperative 
        mailing (as defined under regulations of the Postal Service) 
        with any person or organization not authorized to mail at the 
        rates for mail under former section 4452(b) or 4452(c) of this 
        title;
    except that--
            ``(I) any determination under clause (i) that a product or 
        service is not substantially related to a particular purpose 
        shall be made under regulations which shall be prescribed by the 
        Postal Service and which shall be consistent with standards 
        established by the Internal Revenue Service and the courts with 
        respect to subsections (a) and (c) of section 513 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
            ``(II) clause (i) shall not apply if the product involved is 
        a periodical publication described in subsection (m)(2) 
        (including a subscription to receive any such publication).''.
    (b) Products.--Section 3626 is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(m)(1) In the administration of this section, the rates for mail 
under former section 4452(b) or 4452(c) of this title shall not apply to 
mail consisting of products, unless such products--
        ``(A) were received by the organization as gifts or 
    contributions; or
        ``(B) are low cost articles (as defined by section 513(h)(2) of 
    the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to a periodical 
publication of a qualified nonprofit organization.''.
    (c) Certification; Verification.--Section 3626(j)(3) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(3)'' and inserting ``(3)(A)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(B) The Postal Service shall establish procedures to carry out 
this paragraph, including procedures for mailer certification of 
compliance with the conditions specified in paragraph (1)(D) or 
subsection (m), as applicable, and verification of such compliance.''.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to mail sent, and the rates for mail sent, after December 
31, 1993.


    PROVISIONS RELATING TO RATES FOR BOOKS AND CERTAIN OTHER MATERIALS

    Sec. 706. (a) In General.--Section 3683(b) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b) The rates of postage under former section 4554(b)(1) of this 
title shall not be effective except with respect to mailings which--
        ``(1) constitute materials specified in former section 
    4554(b)(2) of this title; and
        ``(2) are sent between--
            ``(A) an institution, organization, or association listed in 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of such former section 4554(b)(1) and 
        any other such institution, organization, or association;
            ``(B) an institution, organization, or association referred 
        to in subparagraph (A) and any individual (other than an 
        individual having a financial interest in the sale, promotion, 
        or distribution of the materials involved);
            ``(C) an institution, organization, or association referred 
        to in subparagraph (A) and a qualified nonprofit organization 
        (as defined in former section 4452(d) of this title) that is not 
        such an institution, organization, or association; or
            ``(D) an institution, organization, or association referred 
        to in subparagraph (A) and a publisher, if such institution, 
        organization, or association has placed an order to purchase 
        such materials for delivery to such institution, organization, 
        or association.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to mail sent after September 30, 1993.


                             SENSE OF CONGRESS

    Sec. 707. It is the sense of the Congress that any legislation, 
enacted after September 30, 1994, which would have the effect of 
expanding the classes of mail or kinds of mailers eligible for reduced 
rates of postage should provide for sufficient funding to ensure that 
neither any losses to the United States Postal Service nor any increase 
in the rates of postage for any of the other classes of mail or kinds of 
mailers will result.


                           TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

    Sec. 708. (a) Section 410.--Section 410(b) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (8) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
        (2) in the first paragraph (9) by striking ``Chapter'' and 
    inserting ``chapter'', and by striking the period and inserting ``; 
    and''; and
        (3) by designating the second paragraph (9) as paragraph (10).
    (b) Section 3202.--Section 3202(a) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3) by adding ``and'' after the semicolon; and
        (2) in paragraph (4) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    period.
    (c) Section 3601.--Section 3601(a) is amended by striking 
``concent'' and inserting ``consent''.
    (d) Section 3625.--Section 3625(d) is amended by striking ``section 
3268'' and inserting ``section 3628''.
    (e) Section 3626.--Section 3626 is amended by redesignating the 
second subsection (k) as subsection (l).

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Section 801. Notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other 
Act, the Administration may establish the National Partnership Council 
with interagency assistance from the Office of Personnel Management, the 
Office of Management and Budget, and the Federal Labor Relations 
Authority, subject to authorization.
    Sec. 802. Not to exceed 50 per centum of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 1994 from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses made for one fiscal year in 
this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 1995 for each 
such account for such purposes and in such amounts as approved in 
advance by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
That not to exceed 2 per centum of the funds so carried over may be used 
to pay cash awards to employees, as authorized by law, and not to exceed 
3 per centum of the funds may be used for employee training programs.
    Sec. 803. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Centers 
for Disease Control (CDC) laboratory project authorized by Public Law 
100-202, may be sited on the ``new'' campus in the Atlanta, Georgia area 
authorized by Public Law 102-393.
    Sec. 804. Part of the site to be utilized for the new United States 
Courthouse in Montgomery, Alabama, is owned and occupied by Troy State 
University which is under a consent decree with the Department of 
Justice that severely limits its geographic location. Therefore, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of General 
Services is authorized to pay replacement costs for the site and 
improvements to be acquired.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.