[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3167 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3167
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To extend the emergency unemployment compensation program, to 
establish a

           system of worker profiling, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Unemployment Compensation Amendments 
of 1993''.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
    (a) General Rule.--Sections 102(f)(1) and 106(a)(2) of the Emergency 
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, as amended) 
are each amended by striking ``October 2, 1993'' and inserting 
``February 5, 1994''.
    (b) Weeks of Benefits Available During Extension.--
        (1) Subparagraph (A) of section 102(b)(2) of such Act is 
    amended--
            (A) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause (vii),
            (B) by inserting after clause (v) the following new clause:
                ``(vi) Reduction of weeks after october 2, 1993.--In the 
            case of weeks beginning after October 2, 1993--

                    ``(I) clause (i) of this subparagraph shall be 
                applied by substituting `13' for `33' and by 
                substituting `7' for `26',
                    ``(II) clauses (ii), (iii), (iv), and (v) of this 
                subparagraph shall not apply, and
                    ``(III) subparagraph A of paragraph (1) shall be 
                applied by substituting `50 percent' for `130 
                percent'.'', and

            (C) by striking ``or (iv)'' in clause (vii) (as redesignated 
        by subparagraph (A)) and inserting ``(iv), or (vi)''.
        (2) Subparagraph (B) of section 102(b)(2) of such Act is amended 
    by striking ``and (iv)'' and inserting ``(iv) and (vi)''.
    (c) Modification of Final Phase-Out.--Paragraph (2) of section 
102(f) of such Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 2, 1993'' and inserting ``February 5, 
    1994'', and
        (2) by striking ``January 15, 1994'' and inserting ``April 30, 
    1994''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Section 101(e) of such Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 2, 1993'' each place it appears in 
    paragraph (1) and inserting ``February 5, 1994'', and
        (2) by striking ``(and is not triggered off under paragraph 
    (1))'' in paragraph (2) and inserting ``after February 5, 1994,''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to weeks of unemployment beginning after October 2, 1993.
SEC. 3. MODIFICATION TO ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR EMERGENCY 
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
    (a) Repeal of Disregard of Rights to Regular Compensation.--
Subsection (f) of section 101 of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, as amended) is hereby repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--The repeal made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to weeks of unemployment beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act; except that such repeal shall not apply in determining 
eligibility for emergency unemployment compensation from an account 
established before October 2, 1993.

SEC. 4. WORKER PROFILING.

    (a) In General.--
        (1) Establishment of profiling system.--Section 303 of the 
    Social Security Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the 
    following new subsection:
    ``(j)(1) The State agency charged with the administration of the 
State law shall establish and utilize a system of profiling all new 
claimants for regular compensation that--
        ``(A) identifies which claimants will be likely to exhaust 
    regular compensation and will need job search assistance services to 
    make a successful transition to new employment;
        ``(B) refers claimants identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) 
    to reemployment services, such as job search assistance services, 
    available under any State or Federal law;
        ``(C) collects follow-up information relating to the services 
    received by such claimants and the employment outcomes for such 
    claimants subsequent to receiving such services and utilizes such 
    information in making identifications pursuant to subparagraph (A); 
    and
        ``(D) meets such other requirements as the Secretary of Labor 
    determines are appropriate.
    ``(2) Whenever the Secretary of Labor, after reasonable notice and 
opportunity for hearing to the State agency charged with the 
administration of the State law, finds that there is a failure to comply 
substantially with the requirements of paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
Labor shall notify such State agency that further payments will not be 
made to the State until he is satisfied that there is no longer any such 
failure. Until the Secretary of Labor is so satisfied, he shall make no 
further certification to the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to 
such State.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 304(a)(2) of the Social 
    Security Act is amended by striking ``or (i)'' and inserting ``(i), 
    or (j)''.
    (b) Participation Requirement.--Section 303(a) of the Social 
Security Act is amended--
        (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (9) and 
    inserting ``; and'', and
        (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) A requirement that, as a condition of eligibility for 
    regular compensation for any week, any claimant who has been 
    referred to reemployment services pursuant to the profiling system 
    under subsection (j)(1)(B) participate in such services or in 
    similar services unless the State agency charged with the 
    administration of the State law determines--
            ``(A) such claimant has completed such services; or
            ``(B) there is justifiable cause for such claimant's failure 
        to participate in such services.''.
    (c) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary of Labor shall provide 
technical assistance and advice to assist the States in implementing the 
profiling system required under the amendments made by subsection (a). 
Such assistance shall include the development and identification of 
model profiling systems.
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than the date 3 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall report to 
the Congress on the operation and effectiveness of the profiling system 
required under the amendments made by subsection (a) and the 
participation requirement provided by the amendments made under 
subsection (b). Such report shall include such recommendations as the 
Secretary of Labor determines are appropriate.
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Section 4 of the Emergency Unemployment 
Compensation Amendments of 1993 (Public Law 103-6) is hereby repealed.
    (f) Effective Dates.--
        (1) The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take 
    effect on the date one year after the date of the enactment of this 
    Act.
        (2) The provisions of subsections (c), (d), and (e) shall take 
    effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO UNEMPLOYMENT TRUST FUND.
    Paragraph (1) of section 905(b) of the Social Security Act is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall transfer (as of the close of each month) from the 
employment security administration account to the extended unemployment 
compensation account established by subsection (a), an amount 
(determined by such Secretary) equal to 20 percent of the amount by 
which--
        ``(A) the transfers to the employment security administration 
    account pursuant to section 901(b)(2) during such month, exceed
        ``(B) the payments during such month from the employment 
    security administration account pursuant to section 901 (b)(3) and 
    (d).
If for any such month the payments referred to in subparagraph (B) 
exceed the transfers referred to in subparagraph (A), proper adjustments 
shall be made in the amounts subsequently transferred.''

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF REPORTING DATE FOR ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    Section 908(f) of the Social Security Act is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2d year'' and inserting 
    ``third year''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``February 1, 1994'' and 
    inserting ``February 1, 1995''.
SEC. 7. TEMPORARY INCREASE IN SPONSORSHIP PERIOD FOR ALIENS UNDER THE 
SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME PROGRAM.
    (a) Increase in Sponsorship Period.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1621 of the Social Security Act (42 
    U.S.C. 1382j) is amended by striking ``three years'' each place such 
    term appears and inserting ``5 years''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on January 1, 1994.
    (b) Reinstatement of Prior Law.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1621 of the Social Security Act (42 
    U.S.C. 1382j), as amended by subsection (a)(1) of this section, is 
    amended by striking ``5 years'' each place such term appears and 
    inserting ``3 years''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on October 1, 1996.

SEC. 8. TREATMENT OF RAILROAD WORKERS.

    (a) Extension of Program.--
        (1) In general.--Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 501(b) of the 
    Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, 
    as amended) are each amended by striking ``October 2, 1993'' and 
    inserting ``January 1, 1994''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 501(a) of such Act is amended 
    by striking ``October 1993'' and inserting ``January 1994''.
    (b) Length of Benefits During Period of Extension.--Section 
501(d)(2)(B)(ii) of such Act is amended by striking ``on and after the 
date on which a reduction in benefits is imposed under section 
102(b)(2)(A)(iv)'' and inserting ``after October 2, 1993''.
    (c) Termination of Benefits.--Section 501(e) of such Act is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 2, 1993'' and inserting ``January 1, 
    1994'', and
        (2) by striking ``January 15, 1994'' and inserting ``March 26, 
    1994''.

SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATES.

    (a) Repeal of Disregard of Rights to Regular Compensation.--
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3(b) of this Act, the repeal 
made by section 3(a) of this Act shall apply to weeks of unemployment 
beginning after October 2, 1993, except that such repeal shall not apply 
in determining eligibility for emergency unemployment compensation from 
an account established before October 3, 1993.
    (b) Railroad Workers.--
        (1) In general.--Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 501(b) of the 
    Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-164, 
    as amended), as amended by section 8(a)(1) of this Act, are each 
    amended by striking ``January 1, 1994'' and inserting ``February 5, 
    1994''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 501(a) of such Emergency 
    Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991, as amended by section 8(a)(2) 
    of this Act, is amended by striking ``January 1994'' and inserting 
    ``February 1994''.
        (3) Termination of benefits.--Section 501(e) of such Emergency 
    Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991, as amended by section 8(c) of 
    this Act, is amended--
            (A) by striking ``January 1, 1994'' and inserting ``February 
        5, 1994'', and
            (B) by striking ``March 26, 1994'' and inserting ``April 30, 
        1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.