[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4554 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4554

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                 Production, Processing, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,801,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer 
salaries and expenses funds in this Act sufficient to finance a total 
of not to exceed 35 staff years between agencies of the Department of 
Agriculture to meet workload requirements.

                 Office of Budget and Program Analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not 
to exceed $5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,795,000.

                        Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Financial Officer to carry out 
the mandates of the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, $580,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration to carry out the programs funded in this Act, $596,000.


         agriculture buildings and facilities and rental payments

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313 for programs and activities of the Department of Agriculture 
which are included in this Act, $106,571,000, of which $18,614,000 
shall be retained by the Department of Agriculture for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings: Provided, That in the 
event an agency within the Department of Agriculture should require 
modification of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may transfer 
a share of that agency's appropriation made available by this Act to 
this appropriation, or may transfer a share of this appropriation to 
that agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 per 
centum of the funds made available for space rental and related costs 
to or from this account. In addition, for construction, repair, 
improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or 
facilities as necessary to carry out the programs of the Department, 
where not otherwise provided, $28,622,000, to remain available until 
expended; making a total appropriation of $135,193,000.

                       advisory committees (usda)

    For necessary expenses for activities of advisory committees of the 
Department of Agriculture which are included in this Act, $928,000: 
Provided, That no other funds appropriated to the Department of 
Agriculture in this Act shall be available to the Department of 
Agriculture for support of activities of advisory committees.


                        hazardous waste management

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 
U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department of Agriculture for hazardous waste 
management may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its 
use in meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal 
and non-Federal lands.

                      Departmental Administration


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For Finance and Management, $4,477,000, for Personnel, Operations, 
Information Resources Management, Civil Rights Enforcement, Small and 
Disadvantaged Business Utilization, Administrative Law Judges and 
Judicial Officer, and Emergency Programs, $21,710,000; making a total 
of $26,187,000 for Departmental Administration to provide for necessary 
expenses for management support services to offices of the Department 
of Agriculture and for general administration and emergency 
preparedness of the Department of Agriculture, repairs and alterations, 
and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided 
for and necessary for the practical and efficient work of the 
Department of Agriculture, including employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be reimbursed from applicable 
appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding 
of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

     Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded in this Act, 
including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison 
within the executive branch, $1,764,000.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, and for the 
dissemination of agricultural information and the coordination of 
information, work and programs authorized by Congress in the 
Department, $8,198,000, including employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
of which not to exceed $10,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' 
bulletins.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, $63,418,000, including such sums as may be 
necessary for contracting and other arrangements with public agencies 
and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978, as amended, and including a sum not to exceed 
$50,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to 
exceed $95,000 for certain confidential operational expenses including 
the payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of 
Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$25,992,000.

            Office of the Assistant Secretary for Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Economics to carry out the programs funded in this Act, $540,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and service relating to agricultural 
production, marketing, and distribution, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
including economics of marketing; analyses relating to farm prices, 
income and population, and demand for farm products, use of resources 
in agriculture, adjustments, costs and returns in farming, and farm 
finance; research relating to the economic and marketing aspects of 
farmer cooperatives; and for analysis of supply and demand for farm 
products in foreign countries and their effect on prospects for United 
States exports, progress in economic development and its relation to 
sales of farm products, assembly and analysis of agricultural trade 
statistics and analysis of international financial and monetary 
programs and policies as they affect the competitive position of United 
States farm products, $53,936,000; of which $500,000 shall be available 
for investigation, determination, and finding as to the effect upon the 
production of food and upon the agricultural economy of any proposed 
action affecting such subject matter pending before the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency for presentation, in the public 
interest, before said Administrator, other agencies or before the 
courts: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for analysis of statistics and related 
facts on foreign production and full and complete information on 
methods used by other countries to move farm commodities in world trade 
on a competitive basis.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and 
improvements, and marketing surveys, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, $81,424,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                    World Agricultural Outlook Board

    For necessary expenses of the World Agricultural Outlook Board to 
coordinate and review all commodity and aggregate agricultural and food 
data used to develop outlook and situation material within the 
Department of Agriculture, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing 
Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622(g)), $2,498,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science and Education

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Science and Education to administer the laws enacted by 
the Congress for the Agricultural Research Service, Cooperative State 
Research Service, Extension Service, and National Agricultural Library, 
$520,000.

 Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Revolving Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$6,500,000 is appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Revolving Fund.

                     Agricultural Research Service


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for), home economics or nutrition and consumer use, and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, $696,382,000: Provided, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for temporary employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and 
the purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available to conduct 
marketing research: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, 
alteration, and repair of buildings and improvements, but unless 
otherwise provided the cost of constructing any one building shall not 
exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or greenhouses which shall each 
be limited to $1,000,000, and except for ten buildings to be 
constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $500,000 each, and the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement value of the building 
or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That the 
limitations on alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to 
modernization or replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, 
Maryland: Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not 
apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 
24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to the purchase of land at Parlier, 
California, Beckley, West Virginia and Grand Forks, North Dakota: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $190,000 of this appropriation may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Science and Education for the scientific 
review of international issues involving agricultural chemicals and 
food additives: Provided further, That funds may be received from any 
State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the 
purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or research 
project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.


                         buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $43,718,000, 
to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That 
funds may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any 
research facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized 
by law.

                   Cooperative State Research Service

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $171,304,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act approved March 2, 1887, as amended, including administration by the 
United States Department of Agriculture, penalty mail costs of 
agricultural experiment stations under section 6 of the Hatch Act of 
1887, as amended, and payments under section 1361(c) of the Act of 
October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301n.); $20,809,000 for grants for 
cooperative forestry research under the Act approved October 10, 1962 
(16 U.S.C. 582a-582-a7), as amended, including administrative expenses, 
and payments under section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 
U.S.C. 301n.); $28,157,000 for payments to the 1890 land-grant 
colleges, including Tuskegee University, for research under section 
1445 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222), as amended, including 
administration by the United States Department of Agriculture, and 
penalty mail costs of the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee 
University; $52,295,000 for contracts and grants for agricultural 
research under the Act of August 4, 1965, as amended (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)); $103,123,000 for competitive research grants under section 
2(b) of the Act of August 4, 1965, as amended (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), 
including administrative expenses; $5,551,000 for the support of animal 
health and disease programs authorized by section 1433 of Public Law 
95-113, including administrative expenses; $1,318,000 for supplemental 
and alternative crops and products as authorized by the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $500,000 for grants for research pursuant to 
the Critical Agricultural Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and 
section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, as amended (7 
U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until expended; $475,000 for 
rangeland research grants as authorized by subtitle M of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as 
amended; $8,990,000 for contracts and grants for agricultural research 
under the Act of August 4, 1965, as amended (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); 
$3,500,000 for higher education graduate fellowships grants under 
section 1417(b)(6) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), 
including administrative expenses, to remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,350,000 for higher education challenge grants 
under section 1417(b)(1) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(1)), including administrative expenses; $1,000,000 for a higher 
education minority scholars program under section 1417(b)(5) of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), including administrative 
expenses, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$4,000,000 for aquaculture grants as authorized by section 1475 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3322), and other Acts; $8,112,000  for sustainable 
agriculture research and education, as authorized by section 1621 of 
Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5811), including administrative expenses; 
and $19,954,000 for necessary expenses of Cooperative State Research 
Service activities, including coordination and program leadership for 
higher education work of the Department, administration of payments to 
State agricultural experiment stations, funds for employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), of which $9,917,000 shall be for a program of capacity 
building grants to colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee 
University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not to exceed $100,000 shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109; in all, $433,438,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing 
of tobacco or tobacco products.


                         buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities 
and for grants to States and other eligible recipients for such 
purposes, as necessary to carry out the agricultural research, 
extension, and teaching programs of the Department of Agriculture, 
where not otherwise provided, $62,744,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                           Extension Service

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: 
For payments for cooperative agricultural extension work under the 
Smith-Lever Act, as amended, to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 
3(c) of said Act, and under section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for 
retirement and employees' compensation costs for extension agents and 
for costs of penalty mail for cooperative extension agents and State 
extension directors, $272,582,000; payments for the nutrition and 
family education program for low-income areas under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $61,431,000; payments for the pest management program under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $10,947,000, of which up to $125,000 may be 
transferred to the Cooperative State Research Service; payments for the 
farm safety and rural health programs under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$2,988,000; payments for the pesticide impact assessment program under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $3,363,000; payments to upgrade 1890 land-
grant college research and extension facilities as authorized by 
section 1447 of Public Law 95-113, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3222b), 
$7,901,000, to remain available until expended; payments for the rural 
development centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $950,000; payments 
for a groundwater quality program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$11,234,000; payments for the Agricultural Telecommunications Program, 
as authorized by Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), $1,221,000; 
payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$10,000,000; payments for a Nutrition Education Initiative under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $4,265,000; payments for a food safety program 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,475,000; payments for carrying out 
the provisions of the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, 
$3,341,000; payments for Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $1,750,000; payments for sustainable agriculture programs 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,463,000; payments for rural health 
and safety education as authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 101-
624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 2662), $2,750,000; payments for extension work 
by the colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 
U.S.C. 321-326, 328) and Tuskegee University, $25,472,000; and for 
Federal administration and coordination including administration of the 
Smith-Lever Act, as amended, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 341-349), as amended, and section 1361(c) of the Act of October 
3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301n.), and to coordinate and provide program 
leadership for the extension work of the Department and the several 
States and insular possessions, $12,611,000; in all, $438,744,000: 
Provided, That funds hereby appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of 
the Act of June 26, 1953, and section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, 
as amended, shall not be paid to any State, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern 
Marianas, and American Samoa prior to availability of an equal sum from 
non-Federal sources for expenditure during the current fiscal year.

                     National Agricultural Library

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Library, 
$18,307,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $35,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $900,000 shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements: Provided 
further, That $462,000 shall be available for a grant pursuant to 
section 1472 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3818), in addition to other funds 
available in this appropriation for grants under this section.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Food Safety and Inspection Service, Federal Grain 
Inspection Service, Agricultural Marketing Service, and Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, $605,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service


                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), 
necessary to prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal 
diseases; to carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory 
activities; to discharge the authorities of the Secretary of 
Agriculture under the Act of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 
426-426b); and to protect the environment, as authorized by law, 
$443,651,000, of which $96,660,000 shall be derived from user fees 
deposited in the Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account, 
and of which $4,938,000 shall be available for the control of outbreaks 
of insects, plant diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest 
animals and birds to the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: 
Provided, That, if the demand for Agricultural Quarantine Inspection 
(AQI) user fee financed services is greater than expected and/or other 
uncontrollable events occur, the Agency may exceed the AQI User Fee 
limitation by up to 20 per centum, provided such funds are available in 
the Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account, and with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees: Provided further, That 
no funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
eradication program for the current fiscal year that does not require 
minimum matching by the States of at least 40 per centum: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance 
of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall 
be for replacement only: Provided further, That, in addition, in 
emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural production 
industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from other 
appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations of 
the Department such sums as he may deem necessary, to be available only 
in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious or 
infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended, 
and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, as amended, and any 
unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the next preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration 
of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 1995 the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be credited to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $6,973,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, and the Poultry Products 
Inspection Act, as amended, $516,738,000, and in addition, $1,000,000 
may be credited to this account from fees collected for the cost of 
laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 of Public Law 
102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
per centum of the current replacement value of the building.

                    Federal Grain Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, as amended, and the standardization 
activities related to grain under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 
1946, as amended, including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $20,000 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,325,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
per centum of the current replacement value of the building.

                    inspection and weighing services


          limitation on inspection and weighing service expenses

    Not to exceed $42,784,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for Inspection and Weighing Services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 per centum with notification to 
the Appropriations Committees.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, 
agricultural cooperatives, and regulatory programs, as authorized by 
law, and for administration and coordination of payments to States; 
including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic 
Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $90,000 for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $56,591,000; including funds for the Wholesale 
Market Development Program for the design and development of wholesale 
and farmer market facilities for the major metropolitan areas of the 
country: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available pursuant 
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 per centum of the current replacement 
value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).


                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $57,054,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 per centum 
with notification to the Appropriations Committees.


     funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                      (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $10,309,000 for formulation and 
administration of Marketing Agreements and Orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended, and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961.
    In fiscal year 1996, section 32 funds shall be used to promote 
sunflower and cottonseed oil exports to the full extent authorized by 
section 1541 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 1464 note), and such funds 
shall be used to facilitate additional sales of such oils in world 
markets.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

                 Packers and Stockyards Administration

    For necessary expenses for administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, as authorized by law, and for certifying procedures 
used to protect purchasers of farm products, including field employment 
pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $5,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$11,989,000.

                       Farm Income Stabilization

 Office of the Under Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity 
                                Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity Programs to 
administer the laws enacted by Congress for the Agricultural 
Stabilization and Conservation Service, Foreign Agricultural Service, 
and the Commodity Credit Corporation, $549,000.

          Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Agricultural 
Stabilization and Conservation Service, including expenses to formulate 
and carry out programs authorized by title III of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1301-1393); the 
Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.); sections 
7 to 15, 16(a), 16(f), and 17 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic 
Allotment Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590g-590o, 590p(a), 590p(f), and 
590q); sections 1001 to 1004, 1006 to 1008, and 1010 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1970, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1501 to 1504, 1506 to 
1508, and 1510); the Water Bank Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311); 
the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101); 
sections 202(c) and 205 of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control Act of 1974, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1592(c), 1595); 
sections 401, 402, and 404 to 406 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 
1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 to 2205); the United States Warehouse Act, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 241-273); title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, 
as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.); and laws pertaining to the 
Commodity Credit Corporation, $717,958,000; of which $716,333,000 is 
hereby appropriated, and $1,036,000 is transferred from the Public Law 
480 Program Account in this Act and $589,000 is transferred from the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Program Account in this Act: Provided, 
That other funds made available to the Agricultural Stabilization and 
Conservation Service for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$100,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That no part of the funds made available under this 
Act shall be used: (1) to influence the vote in any referendum; (2) to 
influence agricultural legislation, except as permitted in 18 U.S.C. 
1913; or (3) for salaries or other expenses of members of county and 
community committees established pursuant to section 8(b) of the Soil 
Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as amended, for engaging in 
any activities other than advisory and supervisory duties and delegated 
program functions prescribed in administrative regulations.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                   Federal Crop Insurance Corporation


                  administrative and operating expenses

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1516), $68,884,000: 
Provided, That until October 1, 1995, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
collect and use such sums as may be necessary for the delivery of 
catastrophic risk protection under subsections (b) and (c) of section 
508 of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as that Act would be amended by 
section 6(a)(3) of H.R. 4217 as passed by the House on August 5, 1994, 
if such provision or similar provision is enacted into law: Provided 
further, That in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated in this 
Act, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out the purposes of the crop insurance fund established under 
section 516 of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as that Act would be 
amended by sections 8 (b) and (c) of H.R. 4217, if such provision or 
similar provision is enacted into law: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $700 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i): Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act may be used to offer a 
Federal crop insurance policy in counties on crops where a loss ratio, 
that has already been recalculated pursuant to law to reflect the 
premium rates issued by the Corporation for the 1994 crop year, is in 
excess of 1.10 more than 70 percent of the years that a policy has been 
offered since 1980: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used to pay operating and administrative costs that exceed 
31 per centum of premium to insurers of policies on which the 
Corporation provides reinsurance, except to reimburse said insurers for 
excess loss adjustment expenses as provided for in the Standard 
Reinsurance Agreement issued by the Corporation: Provided further, That 
the fourth proviso shall not apply in any county affected if the 
Corporation has implemented a nonstandard classification system in such 
county for those individual farms that have experienced excessive 
losses since 1980 under which the premium rates, notwithstanding the 
provision of section 508(d) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, are 
increased over comparable rates effective for the 1994 crop, or the 
insured yields are decreased from comparable yields for the 1994 crop, 
or a combination of both, by an amount or amounts sufficient to ensure 
that an estimated loss ratio will not exceed 1.1 for the crop produced 
on such farms during the 1995 crop year.


                 federal crop insurance corporation fund

    For payments as authorized by section 508(b) of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, as amended, $219,107,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund


                  reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1995, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse 
the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but 
not previously reimbursed (estimated to be $15,500,000,000 in the 
President's fiscal year 1995 Budget Request (H. Doc. 103-179)), but not 
to exceed $15,500,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 
17, 1961, as amended (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).


        operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1995, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 
42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, That expenses shall be for operations and 
maintenance costs only and that other hazardous waste management costs 
shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation 
in this Act.

                          disaster assistance

    Such sums as may be necessary from the Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall be available, through July 15, 1995, to producers under the same 
terms and conditions authorized in chapter 3, subtitle B, title XXII of 
Public Law 101-624 for 1994 crops, including aquaculture and excluding 
ornamental fish, affected by natural disasters: Provided, That these 
funds shall be made available upon enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That such funds shall also be available for payments to 
producers for 1995 through 1996 orchard crop losses, if the losses are 
due to freezing conditions incurred between January 1, 1994 and March 
31, 1994, and Federal crop insurance is not available for affected 
orchard crop producers: Provided further, That such funds shall also be 
available to fund the costs of replanting, reseeding, or repairing 
damage to commercial trees, including orchard and nursery inventory, as 
a result of 1994 weather-related damages: Provided further, That the 
terms and conditions of section 521, paragraphs (a) (3) and (4), 
paragraph (b)(3), subparagraph (c)(2)(C), and subsections (d) and (e), 
as amended in section 201 of S. 2095 (as reported by the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry on June 22, 1994) shall apply to 
all claims for assistance made under this paragraph: Provided further, 
That such amounts and uses of funds made available under this paragraph 
are designated by Congress as emergency requirements pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, and that such funds and uses shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                    TITLE II--CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

                 Office of the Assistant Secretary for

                   Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Soil 
Conservation Service, $677,000.

                       Soil Conservation Service


                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100; purchase and erection or alteration or 
improvement of permanent and temporary buildings; and operation and 
maintenance of aircraft, $556,062,000, and the unobligated and 
uncommitted portion of the fiscal year 1994 appropriation for the 
Conservation Reserve Program shall be transferred to this account, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); of which not less 
than $5,756,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting and not less 
than $8,070,000 is for operation and establishment of the plant 
materials centers: Provided, That except for $3,399,000 for 
improvements of the plant materials centers, the cost of any permanent 
building purchased, erected, or as improved, exclusive of the cost of 
constructing a water supply or sanitary system and connecting the same 
to any such building and with the exception of buildings acquired in 
conjunction with land being purchased for other purposes, shall not 
exceed $10,000, except for one building to be constructed at a cost not 
to exceed $100,000 and eight buildings to be constructed or improved at 
a cost not to exceed $50,000 per building and except that alterations 
or improvements to other existing permanent buildings costing $5,000 or 
more may be made in any fiscal year in an amount not to exceed $2,000 
per building: Provided further, That when buildings or other structures 
are erected on non-Federal land that the right to use such land is 
obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided further, That no part 
of this appropriation may be expended for soil and water conservation 
operations under the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) in 
demonstration projects: Provided further, That this appropriation shall 
be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed 
$25,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That qualified local engineers may be temporarily employed at 
per diem rates to perform the technical planning work of the Service.


                  river basin surveys and investigations

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, in accordance with 
section 6 of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved 
August 4, 1954, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1006-1009), $12,970,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $60,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                           watershed planning

    For necessary expenses for small watershed investigations and 
planning, in accordance with the Watershed Protection and Flood 
Prevention Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1001-1008), $10,546,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.


                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing 
works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, as amended 
(16 U.S.C. 1001-1005, 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 
27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of 
laws relating to the activities of the Department, $70,000,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which $10,000,000 
shall be available for the watersheds authorized under the Flood 
Control Act approved June 22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 U.S.C. 1006a), as 
amended and supplemented): Provided, That, for fiscal year 1995 only, 
not to exceed 10 per centum of the foregoing amounts shall be available 
for allocation to any one State: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this 
appropriation is available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), as amended, including 
cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to relocate endangered 
or threatened species to other suitable habitats as may be necessary to 
expedite project construction.


                  resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant 
to the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones 
Farm Tenant Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the 
provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the 
provisions of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-
3461), $32,845,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.


                    great plains conservation program

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect a program of 
conservation in the Great Plains area, pursuant to section 16(b) of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as added by the Act of 
August 7, 1956, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)), $15,172,000, to remain 
available until expended (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)(7)).

          Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service


                    agricultural conservation program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the program authorized 
in sections 7 to 15, 16(a), 16(f), and 17 of the Soil Conservation and 
Domestic Allotment Act approved February 29, 1936, as amended and 
supplemented (16 U.S.C. 590g-590o, 590p(a), 590p(f), and 590q), and 
sections 1001-1004, 1006-1008, and 1010 of the Agricultural Act of 
1970, as added by the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 
(16 U.S.C. 1501-1504, 1506-1508, and 1510), and including not to exceed 
$15,000 for the preparation and display of exhibits, including such 
displays at State, interstate, and international fairs within the 
United States, $100,000,000, to remain available until expended (16 
U.S.C. 590o), for agreements, excluding administration but including 
technical assistance and related expenses (16 U.S.C. 590o), except that 
no participant in the Agricultural Conservation Program shall receive 
more than $3,500 per year, except where the participants from two or 
more farms or ranches join to carry out approved practices designed to 
conserve or improve the agricultural resources of the community, or 
where a participant has a long-term agreement, in which case the total 
payment shall not exceed the annual payment limitation multiplied by 
the number of years of the agreement: Provided, That no portion of the 
funds for the current year's program may be utilized to provide 
financial or technical assistance for drainage on wetlands now 
designated as Wetlands Types 3 (III) through 20 (XX) in United States 
Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Circular 39, Wetlands of 
the United States, 1956: Provided further, That such amounts shall be 
available for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, lime, trees, or any 
other conservation materials, or any soil-terracing services, and 
making grants thereof to agricultural producers to aid them in carrying 
out approved farming practices as authorized by the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act, as amended, as determined and recommended 
by the county committees, approved by the State committees and the 
Secretary, under programs provided for herein: Provided further, That 
such assistance will not be used for carrying out measures and 
practices that are primarily production-oriented or that have little or 
no conservation or pollution abatement benefits: Provided further, That 
not to exceed 5 per centum of the allocation for the current year's 
program for any county may, on the recommendation of such county 
committee and approval of the State committee, be withheld and allotted 
to the Soil Conservation Service for services of its technicians in 
formulating and carrying out the Agricultural Conservation Program in 
the participating counties, and shall not be utilized by the Soil 
Conservation Service for any purpose other than technical and other 
assistance in such counties, and in addition, on the recommendation of 
such county committee and approval of the State committee, not to 
exceed 1 per centum may be made available to any other Federal, State, 
or local public agency for the same purpose and under the same 
conditions: Provided further, That for the current year's program 
$2,500,000 shall be available for technical assistance in formulating 
and carrying out rural environmental practices: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated shall be used for 
water quality payments and practices in the same manner as permitted 
under the program for water quality authorized in chapter 2 of subtitle 
D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
3838 et seq.).


                       forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
the program of forestry incentives, as authorized in the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,625,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.


              colorado river basin salinity control program

    For necessary expenses for carrying out a voluntary cooperative 
salinity control program pursuant to section 202(c) of title II of the 
Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
1592(c)), to be used to reduce salinity in the Colorado River and to 
enhance the supply and quality of water available for use in the United 
States and the Republic of Mexico, $4,500,000 to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), to be used for investigations and surveys, 
for technical assistance in developing conservation practices and in 
the preparation of salinity control plans, for the establishment of on-
farm irrigation management systems, including related lateral 
improvement measures, for making cost-share payments to agricultural 
landowners and operators, Indian tribes, irrigation districts and 
associations, local governmental and nongovernmental entities, and 
other landowners to aid them in carrying out approved conservation 
practices as determined and recommended by the county ASC committees, 
approved by the State ASC committees and the Secretary, and for 
associated costs of program planning, information and education, and 
program monitoring and evaluation: Provided, That the Soil Conservation 
Service shall provide technical assistance and the Agricultural 
Stabilization and Conservation Service shall provide administrative 
services for the program, including but not limited to, the negotiation 
and administration of agreements and the disbursement of payments: 
Provided further, That such program shall be coordinated with the 
regular Agricultural Conservation Program and with research programs of 
other agencies.


                       conservation reserve program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the conservation reserve 
program pursuant to the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-
3845), $1,743,274,000, to remain available until expended, to be used 
for Commodity Credit Corporation expenditures for cost-share assistance 
for the establishment of conservation practices provided for in 
approved conservation reserve program contracts, and for annual rental 
payments provided in such contracts, and for technical assistance.


                         wetlands reserve program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Wetlands Reserve Program 
pursuant to subchapter C of subtitle D of title XII of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837), $93,200,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for the purpose of carrying out the Wetlands Reserve 
Program.

         TITLE III--FARMERS HOME AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

Office of the Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development to administer 
programs under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Farmers Home 
Administration, Rural Electrification Administration, Federal Crop 
Insurance Corporation, and rural development activities of the 
Department of Agriculture, $568,000.


                     rural development administration

    The Secretary may transfer funds from the Farmers Home 
Administration in this Act to fund the Rural Development 
Administration, as authorized by law.

    Rural Development Administration and Farmers Home Administration


               rural housing insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
as amended, to be available from funds in the Rural Housing Insurance 
Fund, as follows: $2,200,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $1,000,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $35,000,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $15,915,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$220,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; and $632,000 for site 
loans: Provided, That up to $48,650,000 of these funds shall be made 
available for section 502(g), Deferral Mortgage Demonstration.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: low-income section 502 loans, $244,720,000 of 
which $17,200,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 
504 housing repair loans, $11,690,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$7,911,000; and section 515 rental housing, $115,500,000.
    In addition, for the cost (as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans under a 
demonstration program of loan guarantees for multifamily rental housing 
in rural areas, $1,000,000, to be derived from the amount made 
available under this heading for the cost of low-income section 502 
loans and to become available for obligation only upon the enactment of 
authorizing legislation.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $389,818,000.


                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized 
by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 
$523,008,000; and in addition such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the Rental Assistance Program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount not 
more than $5,900,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or 
payments for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) 
of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to 
nonprofit organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other 
than purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to 
section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements 
entered into or renewed during fiscal year 1995 shall be funded for a 
five-year period, although the life of any such agreement may be 
extended to fully utilize amounts obligated.


         self-help housing land development fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by section 523(b)(1)(B) of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $603,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying 
loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, $11,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $14,000.


            agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $618,755,000, of which $540,674,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,465,000,000, of which 
$1,735,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$230,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe 
land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; and 
for emergency insured loans, $100,000,000 to meet the needs resulting 
from natural disasters.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $31,853,000, of which 
$20,870,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$95,340,000, of which $9,360,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans and $29,425,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian 
tribe land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $123,000; 
and for emergency insured loans, $26,290,000 to meet the needs 
resulting from natural disasters.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $243,766,000.


             rural development insurance fund program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928 and 86 Stat. 661-664, 
as amended, to be available from funds in the Rural Development 
Insurance Fund, as follows: water and sewer facility loans, 
$905,523,000; community facility loans, $300,000,000, of which 
$75,000,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; and guaranteed industrial 
development loans, $500,000,000: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to make transfers between the above 
limitations: Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated above, 
$17,000,000 of direct water and sewer facility, $7,800,000 of direct 
community facility, and $11,000,000 of guaranteed industrial 
development loan funds shall be available through July 30, 1995, for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by title 
XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: direct water and sewer facility loans, 
$126,502,000; direct community facility loans, $21,375,000; guaranteed 
community facility loans, $3,728,000; and guaranteed industrial 
development loans, $4,750,000: Provided, That of the amounts 
appropriated in this paragraph, $2,360,000 for direct water and sewer 
facility loans, $741,000 for direct community facility, and $103,000 
for guaranteed industrial development loans shall be available through 
July 30, 1995, for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1993.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $57,294,000.


               rural development loan fund program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $46,000,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $88,038,000: Provided 
further, That through July 30, 1995, of these amounts, $5,519,000 shall 
be available for the cost of direct loans, for empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities, as authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, to subsidize gross obligations for 
the principal amount of direct loans, $10,565,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan programs, $1,476,000.


                          state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,000,000.


                  rural water and waste disposal grants

    For grants pursuant to section 306(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926), $500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, pursuant to section 306(d) of the 
above Act of which $19,047,000 shall be available, through July 30, 
1995, for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized 
by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, and of 
which $25,000,000 shall be available for water and waste disposal 
systems to benefit the Colonias along the United States/Mexico border, 
including grants pursuant to section 306C: Provided, That, with the 
exception of the foregoing $19,047,000, and the foregoing $25,000,000, 
these funds shall not be used for any purpose not specified in section 
306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.


                  very low-income housing repair grants

    For grants to the very low-income elderly for essential repairs to 
dwellings pursuant to section 504 of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, $24,900,000, to remain available until expended.


                  Rural Housing for Domestic Farm Labor

    For financial assistance to eligible nonprofit organizations for 
housing for domestic farm labor, pursuant to section 516 of the Housing 
Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1486), $10,900,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                       mutual and self-help housing

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $12,650,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).


                  rural water and waste disposal grants

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may use 
1980 or 1990 census information for grant eligibility of projects 
submitted to the agency prior to the availability of 1990 census 
information in amounts not to exceed total project cost overruns.


                  rural community fire protection grants

    For grants pursuant to section 7 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-313), $3,400,000 to fund up to 50 
per centum of the cost of organizing, training, and equipping rural 
volunteer fire departments.


                  compensation for construction defects

    For compensation for construction defects as authorized by section 
509(c) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, $495,000, to remain 
available until expended.


                    rural housing preservation grants

    For grants for rural housing preservation as authorized by section 
552 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983 (Public Law 98-
181), $22,000,000.

                    rural business enterprise grants

    For grants authorized under section 310B(c) and 310B(j) (7 U.S.C. 
1932) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to any 
qualified public or private nonprofit organization, $47,500,000, of 
which $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out the Northern Great 
Plains Rural Development Act (if enacted); and of which $9,500,000 
shall be available through July 30, 1995, for assistance to empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by title XIII of the 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993: Provided, That $500,000 
shall be available for grants to qualified nonprofit organizations to 
provide technical assistance and training for rural communities needing 
improved passenger transportation systems or facilities in order to 
promote economic development.

                     solid waste management grants

    For grants for pollution abatement and control projects authorized 
under section 310B(b) (7 U.S.C. 1932) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, $2,995,000: Provided, That such assistance shall 
include regional technical assistance for improvement of solid waste 
management.


               outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$2,995,000, to remain available until expended.


           rural technology and cooperative development grants

    For grants pursuant to section 310(f) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(11)), $1,750,000.


              local technical assistance and planning grants

    For grants pursuant to section 306(a)(11)(A) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(11)), 
$1,750,000.


                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farmers Home Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, in administering the programs authorized by the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921-2000), as 
amended; title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
1471-1490o); the Rural Rehabilitation Corporation Trust Liquidation 
Act, approved May 3, 1950 (40 U.S.C. 440-444), for administering the 
loan program authorized by title III-A of the Economic Opportunity Act 
of 1964 (Public Law 88-452 approved August 20, 1964), as amended; the 
Cooperative Marketing Act of July 2, 1926 (7 U.S.C. 451-457); and for 
activities relating to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including 
economic research and analysis and the application of economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1621-1627), and for activities with institutions or 
organizations throughout the world concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives (7 U.S.C. 3291),  and such other 
programs which the Farmers Home Administration has the responsibility 
for administering, $700,585,000; of which $37,811,000 is hereby 
appropriated, $374,255,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Rural 
Housing Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and merged with this 
account, $229,735,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Agriculture 
Credit Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and merged with this 
account, $57,294,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Rural 
Development Insurance Fund Program Account in this Act and merged with 
this account, $1,476,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Rural 
Development Loan Fund Program Account in this Act and merged with this 
account, and $14,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Self-Help 
Housing Land Development Fund Program Account in this Act and merged 
with this account: Provided, That not to exceed $515,000 of this 
appropriation may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $4,263,000 of this appropriation shall be 
available for contracting with the National Rural Water Association or 
other equally qualified national organization for a circuit rider 
program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be available 
through cooperative agreements to assist in developing efforts to 
provide information and technical assistance to traditionally under-P
represented communities to encourage business community development.

                  Rural Electrification Administration

    To carry into effect the provisions of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901-950(b)), as follows:


        rural electrification and telephone loans program account

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), shall be made 
as follows: 5 percent rural electrification loans, $100,000,000; 5 
percent rural telephone loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telephone loans, $297,000,000; municipal rate rural electric loans, 
$575,250,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, 
$420,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, 
as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), as follows: cost of direct loans, 
$15,200,000; cost of municipal rate loans, $46,020,000; cost of money 
rural telephone loans, $60,000; cost of loans guaranteed pursuant to 
section 306, $450,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000.

                  rural telephone bank program account

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in 
carrying out its authorized programs for the current fiscal year. 
During fiscal year 1995 and within the resources and authority 
available, gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans 
shall be $175,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 
U.S.C. 935), $770,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $8,794,000.


               distance learning and medical link programs

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the programs authorized 
in sections 2331-2335 of Public Law 101-624, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.


              rea economic development loans program account

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized under section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the 
purpose of promoting rural economic development and job creation 
projects, $12,865,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,077,000.

                         salaries and expenses


                      (Including Transfers of Funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901-950(b)), 
and to administer the loan and loan guarantee programs for Community 
Antenna Television facilities as authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921-1995), and for which 
commitments were made prior to fiscal year 1994, including not to 
exceed $7,000 for financial and credit reports, funds for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $103,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $38,776,000; of which $29,982,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the Rural Electrification and Telephone Loans Program 
Account in this Act and $8,794,000 shall be derived by transfer from 
the Rural Telephone Bank Program Account in this Act: Provided, That 
none of the funds in this Act may be used to authorize the transfer of 
additional funds to this account from the Rural Telephone Bank.

                    TITLE IV--DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Assistant Secretary for Food and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Food and Consumer Services to administer the laws enacted 
by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, $540,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service


                         child nutrition programs

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751-1769b), and the applicable provisions other than 
sections 3 and 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773-
1785, and 1788-1789); $7,451,351,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1996, of which $2,202,274,000 is hereby appropriated and 
$5,249,077,000 shall be derived by transfer from funds available under 
section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, 
That up to $3,849,000 shall be available for independent verification 
of school food service claims: Provided further, That $1,853,000 shall 
be available to provide financial and other assistance to operate the 
Food Service Management Institute: Provided further, That $500,000 
shall be available to provide grants to States for non-recurring costs 
in providing for the special dietary needs of children with 
disabilities.


                           special milk program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special milk program, as 
authorized by section 3 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1772), $18,089,000, to remain available through September 30, 1996.


   special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,470,000,000, to remain available through September 
30, 1996, of which up to $6,750,000 may be used to carry out the 
farmers' market coupon program: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC 
clinics except those that have an announced policy of prohibiting 
smoking within the space used to carry out the program.


                   commodity supplemental food program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), including not less than 
$8,000,000 for the projects in Detroit, New Orleans, and Des Moines, 
$84,500,000, to remain available through September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for commodities donated to the program.


                            food stamp program

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011-2029), and section 601 of Public Law 96-597 (48 U.S.C. 1469d), 
$28,830,710,000: Provided, That funds provided herein shall remain 
available through September 30, 1995, in accordance with section 18(a) 
of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That $2,500,000,000 of the 
foregoing amount shall be placed in reserve for use only in such 
amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry out program 
operations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or work fare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That $1,143,000,000 of the foregoing amount shall be 
available for Nutrition Assistance for Puerto Rico as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 2028, of which $12,472,000 shall be transferred to the Animal 
and Plant Health Inspection Service for the Cattle Tick Eradication 
Project: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
used to cash out food stamp benefits beyond a total of 25 projects and 
the total participation in such projects shall not exceed 3 per centum 
of the estimated national household level participating in the Food 
Stamp Program.


               food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), section 
4(b) of the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2013(b)), and section 311 of the 
Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3030a), 
$183,154,000, to remain available through September 30, 1996.
    For necessary expenses to carry out section 110 of the Hunger 
Prevention Act of 1988, $40,000,000.


                  the emergency food assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Emergency Food Assistance 
Act of 1983, as amended, $40,000,000: Provided, That, in accordance 
with section 202 of Public Law 98-92, these funds shall be available 
only if the Secretary determines the existence of excess commodities.
    For purchases of commodities to carry out the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, as amended, $25,000,000.

                      food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $106,465,000; of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

            TITLE V--FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and 
for enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of 
the Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including 
not to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $118,011,000, of which $4,914,000 may be transferred from 
Commodity Credit Corporation funds, $2,792,000 may be transferred from 
the Commodity Credit Corporation Program Account in this Act, and 
$1,425,000 may be transferred from the Public Law 480 Program Account 
in this Act: Provided, That in addition, funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture shall be available to assist an international 
organization in meeting the costs, including salaries, fringe benefits 
and other associated costs, related to the employment by the 
organization of Federal personnel that may transfer to the organization 
under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3581-3584, or of other well-qualified 
United States citizens, for the performance of activities that 
contribute to increased understanding of international agricultural 
issues, with transfer of funds for this purpose from one appropriation 
to another or to a single account authorized, such funds remaining 
available until expended: Provided further, That the Service may 
utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation for 
expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the International Development 
Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 2392).
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.


        scientific activities overseas (foreign currency program)

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For payments in foreign currencies owed to or owned by the United 
States for research activities authorized by section 104(c)(7) of the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended 
(7 U.S.C. 1704(c)(7)), not to exceed $1,062,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $25,000 of these funds shall be available for payments in 
foreign currencies for expenses of employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
as amended by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                    Public Law 480 Program Accounts


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1715, 1721-1726, 1727-1727f, 
1731-1736g), as follows: (1) $291,342,000 for Public Law 480 title I 
credit, including Food for Progress programs; (2) $29,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, as amended; (3) $821,100,000 is hereby 
appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad pursuant to title II of said Act; and (4) $157,442,000 is hereby 
appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad pursuant to title III of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 
15 per centum of the funds made available to carry out any title of 
said Act may be used to carry out any other title of said Act: Provided 
further, That such sums shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 
and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended, including the cost 
of modifying credit agreements under said Act, $236,162,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public 
Law 480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, 
as amended, to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are 
utilized, $2,461,000.


                         short-term export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$5,000,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program for short-term credit extended to finance the export sales of 
United States agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as 
authorized by section 211(b)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 
(7 U.S.C. 5641).


                        intermediate export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$500,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export guarantee program 
for intermediate-term credit extended to finance the export sales of 
United States agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as 
authorized by section 211(b)(2) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 
(7 U.S.C. 5641).


                    emerging democracies export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$200,000,000 in credit guarantees under its Export Guarantee Program 
for credit expended to finance the export sales of United States 
agricultural commodities and the products thereof to emerging 
democracies, as authorized by section 1542 of Public Law 101-624 (7 
U.S.C. 5622 note).


        commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                      (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out CCC's Export Guarantee 
Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,381,000; to cover common overhead 
expenses as permitted by section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
Charter Act and in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990, of which not to exceed $2,792,000 may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for the salaries and expenses of the 
Foreign Agricultural Service, and of which not to exceed $589,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the salaries 
and expenses of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation 
Service.

      TITLE VI--RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration


                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for rental of 
special purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $899,394,000, of 
which not to exceed $79,423,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
derived from applications received during fiscal year 1995 shall be 
subject to the fiscal year 1995 limitation.
    In addition, of the foregoing amount such sums as may be necessary 
may be used for the inspection of mammography facilities, 
notwithstanding section 354(r) of the Public Health Service Act. Fees 
collected under said Act shall be credited to the foregoing account and 
shall remain available until expended.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no employee of the 
United States Department of Agriculture shall be peremptorily removed 
without a hearing from his or her position because of remarks made 
during personal time regarding Departmental policies or proposed 
policies.
    The stay (published at 58 Fed. Reg. 47962) of the 1987 food 
additive regulation relating to selenium (21 Code of Federal 
Regulations 573.920) is suspended until December 31, 1995.
    In addition to amounts provided, proceeds from the sale of any 
animals that are surplus to FDA's needs shall be retained by the Food 
and Drug Administration and credited to the salaries and expenses 
appropriation for 1995.


                         buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$18,150,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): 
Provided, That the Food and Drug Administration may accept donated land 
in Montgomery and/or Prince George's Counties, Maryland.

                         rental payments (fda)


                      (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug 
Administration which are included in this Act, $46,294,000: Provided, 
That in the event the Food and Drug Administration should require 
modification of space needs, a share of the salaries and expenses 
appropriation may be transferred to this appropriation, or a share of 
this appropriation may be transferred to the salaries and expenses 
appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 per centum of the 
funds made available for rental payments (FDA) to or from this account.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

  Payments to the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, for 
reimbursement of interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance 
Corporation on obligations issued through 1994, as authorized, 
$57,026,000.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include 
multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and 
not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,144,000, 
including not to exceed $1,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to 
charge reasonable fees to attendees of Commission sponsored educational 
events and symposia to cover the Commission's costs of providing those 
events and symposia, and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees 
shall be credited to this account, to be available without further 
appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration


                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $40,420,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249.

                     TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the fiscal year 1995 under this Act shall be available 
for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided for, of 
not to exceed 706 passenger motor vehicles, of which 705 shall be for 
replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the appropriations of the 
Department of Agriculture in this Act for research and service work 
authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 1954, and (7 
U.S.C. 427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United States 
Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said Acts 
and chapter.
    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. New obligational authority provided for the following 
appropriation items in this Act shall remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the 
contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, and Integrated Systems 
Acquisition Project; Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation 
Service, salaries and expenses funds made available to county 
committees; Foreign Agricultural Service, Middle-Income Country 
Training Program; higher education graduate fellowships grants under 
section 1417(b)(6) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)); and 
capacity building grants to colleges eligible to receive funds under 
the Act of August 30, 1890, including Tuskegee University.
    New obligational authority for the Boll Weevil Program; up to 10 
per centum of the Screwworm Program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; funds appropriated for Rental Payments; and higher 
education minority scholars programs under section 1417(b)(5) of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)) shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 
94-449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 per centum of the total direct 
cost of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements 
is to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. 
This does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants 
and contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are 
computed on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations 
are provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
commodities acquired by the Department in connection with Commodity 
Credit Corporation and section 32 price support operations may be used, 
as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide 
commodities to individuals in cases of hardship as determined by the 
Secretary of Agriculture.
    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs in excess of the amounts specified in this 
Act; nor shall this or any other provision of law require a reduction 
in the level of rental space or services below that of fiscal year 1994 
or prohibit an expansion of rental space or services with the use of 
funds otherwise appropriated in this Act. Further, no agency of the 
Department of Agriculture, from funds otherwise available, shall 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs provided to such agency at a percentage rate 
which is greater than is available in the case of funds appropriated in 
this Act.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 712. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research Service that exceed 14 per centum of total 
Federal funds provided under each award.
    Sec. 713. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all 
loan levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 714. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1995 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1995 for the following accounts: Rural Development 
Insurance Fund Program Account; Rural Development Loan Fund Program 
Account; the Rural Telephone Bank Program Account; the Rural 
Electrification and Telephone Loans Program Account; and the REA 
Economic Development Loans Program Account.
    Sec. 715. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries of personnel 
who carry out a Market Promotion Program pursuant to section 203 (7 
U.S.C. 5623) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, with respect to 
tobacco or if the aggregate amount of funds and/or commodities under 
such program exceeds $85,500,000.
    Sec. 716. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to enroll in excess of 100,000 
acres in the fiscal year 1995 Wetlands Reserve Program, as authorized 
by 16 U.S.C. 3837, unless additional acres in excess of the 100,000 
acre limitation can be enrolled without exceeding $93,200,000: 
Provided, That the unobligated portion of the fiscal year 1994 
appropriation shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for the Soil Conservation Service, Conservation Operations.
    Sec. 717. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to enroll additional acres in the 
Conservation Reserve Program authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3831-3845.
    Sec. 718. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1995 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 719. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
        (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In the 
    case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be 
    purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
    available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
    entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
    assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
        (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing financial 
    assistance using funds made available in this Act, the head of each 
    Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
    notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
    Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 720. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
may use cooperative agreements to reflect a relationship between 
Agricultural Marketing Service and a State or Cooperator to carry out 
agricultural marketing programs.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries of personnel 
who carry out an export enhancement program (estimated to be 
$1,000,000,000 in the President's fiscal year 1995 Budget Request (H. 
Doc. 103-179)) if the aggregate amount of funds and/or commodities 
under such program exceeds $800,000,000.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries of personnel 
who carry out a sunflower and cottonseed oil export program authorized 
by section 1541 of Public Law 101-624 if the aggregate amount of funds 
and/or commodities under such program exceeds $25,650,000.
    Sec. 723. Prohibition on Use of Funds for Honey Payments or Loan 
Forfeitures.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act shall be 
used by the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for a total amount of 
payments and/or total amount of loan forfeitures to a person to support 
the price of honey under section 207 of the Agriculture Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1446h) and section 405A of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1425a) in excess 
of zero dollars in the 1994 and 1995 crop years.
    Sec. 724. No funds shall be available in fiscal year 1995 and 
thereafter for payments under the Act of August 30, 1890 and the tenth 
and eleventh paragraphs under the heading ``Emergency Appropriations'' 
of the Act of March 4, 1907 (7 U.S.C. 321 et seq.).
    Sec. 725. The Secretary shall take reasonable steps to ensure that 
no funds made available under this Act be used to provide any direct 
individual Federal benefit or assistance to any individual applying for 
such benefit or assistance unless said individual meets all eligibility 
criteria for the benefit or assistance.
    Sec. 726. (a) In addition to funds made available elsewhere in this 
Act, there are hereby appropriated as of the date of enactment of this 
Act the following, to remain available through September 30, 1995:
        Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants, $10,000,000
        Very Low-Income Housing Repair Grants, $15,000,000
        Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account: For the 
    cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans, as 
    defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
    follows: emergency loans, $7,670,000.
    (b) Of the amount appropriated in the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act of 1994, Public Law 103-211, for Watershed and Flood 
Prevention Operations, $23,000,000 is transferred to the Emergency 
Conservation Program.
    (c) These amounts are designated by Congress as emergency 
requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and that such 
amounts shall be available only to the extent the President designates 
such use as emergency requirements pursuant to such Act.
    Sec. 727. Repayment of Deficiency Payments.--In any case in which 
the Secretary of Agriculture finds that the farming, ranching, or 
aquaculture operations of producers on a farm have been substantially 
affected by a natural disaster in the United States or by a major 
disaster or emergency designated by the President under the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture shall not require any repayment 
under subparagraph (G) or (H) of section 114(a)(2) of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445j(a)(2)) for the 1993 crop of a commodity 
prior to March 1, 1995.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agricultural, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1995''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.