[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2561 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2561
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
To authorize the transfer of naval vessels to certain foreign countries.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER NAVAL VESSELS TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.
    (a) Argentina.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Argentina the auxiliary repair dry dock (ARD 23). 
Such transfer shall be on a grant basis under section 519 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321m; relating to transfers of excess 
defense articles).
    (b) Australia.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Australia the ``CHARLES F. ADAMS'' class guided 
missile destroyer GOLDSBOROUGH (DDG 20). Such transfer shall be on a 
sales basis under section 21 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2761; relating to the foreign military sales program).
    (c) Chile.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Government of Chile the auxiliary repair dry dock (ARD 32). Such 
transfer shall be on a sales basis under section 21 of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761; relating to the foreign military sales 
program).
    (d) Greece.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Government of Greece the ``CHARLES F. ADAMS'' class guided missile 
destroyer RICHARD E. BYRD (DDG 23). Such transfer shall be on a grant 
basis under section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2321j; relating to transfers of excess defense articles).
    (e) Taiwan.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to 
the Coordination Council for North American Affairs (which is the Taiwan 
instrumentality designated pursuant to section 10(a) of the Taiwan 
Relations Act) the auxiliary repair dry dock WINDSOR (ARD 22). Such 
transfer shall be on a sales basis under section 21 of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2761; relating to the foreign military sales 
program).
    (f) Turkey.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer 
to the Government of Turkey the ``KNOX'' class frigates REASONER (FF 
1063), FANNING (FF 1076), THOMAS C. HART (FF 1092), and CAPODANNO (FF 
1093). Such transfers shall be on lease basis under chapter 6 of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2796 and following).
    (2) The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to transfer to the 
Government of Turkey the ``KNOX'' class frigate ELMER MONTGOMERY (FF 
1082). Such transfer shall be on a grant basis under section 516 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j; relating to transfers 
of excess defense articles).
SEC. 2. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS.
    The following provisions do not apply with respect to the transfers 
authorized by this Act:
        (1) In case of a grant under section 516 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961, subsection (c) of that section and any 
    similar provision.
        (2) In case of a grant under section 519 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961, subsection (c) of that section and any 
    similar provision.
        (3) In the case of a sale under section 21 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 546 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
    Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 
    102-391) and any similar, successor provision.
        (4) In the case of a lease under section 61 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act, section 62 of that Act (except that section 62 of that 
    Act shall apply to any renewal of the lease).

SEC. 3. COSTS OF TRANSFERS.

    Any expense of the United States in connection with a transfer 
authorized by this Act shall be charged to the recipient.

SEC. 4. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority granted by section 1 of this Act shall expire at the 
end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, except that leases entered into during that period under subsection 
(f)(1) of that section may be renewed.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.