[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1933 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1933

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize appropriations for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal 
Holiday Commission, to extend such Commission, and to support the 
planning and performance of national service opportunities in 
conjunction with the Federal legal holiday honoring the birthday of 
Martin Luther King, Jr.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``King Holiday and Service Act of 
1994''.

SEC. 2. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. FEDERAL HOLIDAY COMMISSION.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to establish a commission to assist in 
the first observance of the Federal legal holiday honoring Martin 
Luther King, Jr.'', approved August 27, 1984 (36 U.S.C. 169j and 
following) is amended--
        (1) in section 3(1) by inserting ``(including service 
    opportunities)'' after ``activities'';
        (2) in section 4(a) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
    (5), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and 
    inserting ``; and'', and by adding at the end the following:
        ``(7) the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
    National and Community Service, appointed under section 193 of the 
    National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12651c).'';
        (3) in section 6--
            (A) in subsection (a) by striking ``maximum rate of pay 
        payable for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 
        5332'' and inserting ``rate of pay for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315'';
            (B) in subsection (b)(1) by adding the following at the 
        end: ``A person who has been detailed under the preceding 
        sentence for as many as 365 days (continuously or 
        intermittently) may not subsequently be detailed to the 
        Commission.''; and
            (C) all Federal employees on loan to the King Commission on 
        the day of enactment of this Act may remain detailed to the 
        Martin Luther King Holiday Commission for not more than 365 
        days;
        (4) by amending section 7 to read as follows:
    ``Sec. 7. There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
Act--
        ``(1) $300,000 for fiscal year 1995;
        ``(2) $350,000 for fiscal year 1996;
        ``(3) $400,000 for fiscal year 1997;
        ``(4) $450,000 for fiscal year 1998; and
        ``(5) $500,000 for fiscal year 1999.'';
        (5) by amending section 8 to read as follows:

``SEC. 8. COMMISSION REPORT.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than April 20 of each year, the 
Commission shall submit a report to the President and the Congress 
concerning its activities under this Act or under the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990.
    ``(b) Analysis Required.--The Commission shall include in its 
annual report--
        ``(1) a detailed description of all activities undertaken by 
    the Commission;
        ``(2) an analysis of the spending practices of the Commission 
    indicating how much of the funds of the Commission are dedicated to 
    salaries, travel expenses, and other overhead costs and how much 
    are dedicated to the stated goals of the Commission; and
        ``(3) a detailed description of any grants made by the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service with the 
    consultation of the Commission.'';
        (6) in section 9 by striking ``April 20, 1994'' and inserting 
    ``September 30, 1999'';
        (7) by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``Sec. 10. None of the funds appropriated or donated to the 
Commission may be used for the purpose of purchasing first class air 
travel or first class hotel accommodations.''; and
    (8) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 11. ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES.

    ``The Commission shall follow a comprehensive basis of accounting, 
as defined by the Comptroller General in B-255473. The Commission shall 
establish an accounting system for review by the Comptroller General 
under section 3512 of title 31, United States Code. The Comptroller 
General is authorized to review and audit the Commission, its programs, 
activities, operations, and financial transactions. The Comptroller 
General, and his agents, shall have access to all records, files, 
documents, and papers of the Commission, as necessary, to accomplish 
such audits.''.

SEC. 3. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., SERVICE DAY.

    (a) Additional Corporation Activity to Support National Service.--
Section 198 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12653) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(s) Martin Luther King, Jr., Service Day.--
        ``(1) Assistance.--The Corporation may make grants to eligible 
    entities described in paragraph (2) to pay for the Federal share of 
    the cost of planning and carrying out service opportunities in 
    conjunction with the Federal legal holiday honoring the birthday of 
    Martin Luther King, Jr. Such service opportunities shall consist of 
    activities reflecting the life and teachings of Martin Luther King, 
    Jr., such as cooperation and understanding among racial and ethnic 
    groups, nonviolent conflict resolution, equal economic and 
    educational opportunities, and social justice.
        ``(2) Eligible entities.--Any entity otherwise eligible for 
    assistance under the national services laws shall be eligible to 
    receive a grant under this subsection.
        ``(3) Consultation.--In making grants under this subsection, 
    the Corporation shall consult with the Martin Luther King, Jr. 
    Federal Holiday Commission established under section 2 of Public 
    Law 98-399 (36 U.S.C. 169j-1).
        ``(4) Federal share.--Grants provided under this subsection to 
    an eligible entity to support the planning and carrying out of a 
    service opportunity in conjunction with the Federal legal holiday 
    honoring the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., together with all 
    other Federal funds used to plan or carry out the service 
    opportunity, may not exceed 30 percent of the cost of planning and 
    carrying out the service opportunity.
        ``(5) Calculation of entity contributions.--In determining the 
    non-Federal share of the costs of planning and carrying out a 
    service opportunity supported by a grant under this subsection, the 
    Corporation shall consider in-kind contributions (including 
    facilities, equipment, and services) made to plan or carry out the 
    service opportunity.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Reference to repealed section.--Section 101(a)(3) of the 
    National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-
    82; 107 Stat. 788) is amended by striking ``through 136'' and 
    inserting ``through 135''.
        (2) Incorrect reference to act.--Section 203(a)(3) of the 
    National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-
    82; 107 Stat. 891) is amended by striking ``Act of 1993'' and 
    inserting ``Act of 1990''.
        (3) Description of national service participants.--Section 
    137(c) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
    12591(c)), as added by section 101(b) of the National and Community 
    Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 809), is 
    amended by striking ``subsection (a)(5)(A)'' and inserting 
    ``subsection (a)(5)''.
        (4) Educational award eligibility requirements.--Section 146(a) 
    of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
    12602(a)), as added by section 102(a) of the National and Community 
    Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 818), is 
    amended by striking the second paragraph (3).
        (5) Civilian community corps.--
            (A) Use of incorrect term.--Section 155(e) of the National 
        and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12615(e)), as 
        redesignated by section 104(b)(3) of the National and Community 
        Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 840), 
        is amended by striking ``Corps'' and inserting ``Camps''.
            (B) Reference to section.--Subsection (c)(2)(C)(i) of 
        section 159 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
        (42 U.S.C. 12619), as amended by section 104(e)(2)(E)(ii) of 
        the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public 
        Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 847), is amended by striking ``section 
        section 162(a)(2)'' and inserting ``section 162(a)(2)''.
            (C) Cross reference.--Section 162(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the 
        National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
        12622(a)(1)(B)(ii)), as redesignated by section 104(b)(3) of 
        the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public 
        Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 840), is amended by striking ``section 
        4462 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        1993'' and inserting ``section 1143a of title 10, United States 
        Code''.
        (6) Punctuation.--Section 198(q)(1) of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12653(q)(1)), as added by 
    section 104(c) of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 
    1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 840), is amended by striking 
    ``1995'' and inserting ``1995,''.
        (7) Redesignated paragraph.--Subsection (b)(6) of section 103 
    of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4953), as 
    redesignated by section 323(b)(3) of the National and Community 
    Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 900), is 
    amended by striking ``(6)'' and inserting ``(5)''.
        (8) Subparagraph indentation.--Subsection (c)(1)(F) of section 
    103 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4953), 
    as added by section 323(c)(1)(D) of the National and Community 
    Service Trust Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-82; 107 Stat. 900), is 
    amended by moving the left margin two ems to the left.
        (9) Correct execution of amendment.--Section 224 of the 
    Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5024) is amended 
    by striking ``volunteer projects for older Americans'' and 
    inserting ``National Senior Volunteer Corps projects''.
        (10) Effective dates.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (B) Retroactive effective date.--The amendments made by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) shall take effect as of October 1, 1993.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.