[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2518 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2518
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and related agencies, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1994, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                      TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration


                          program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs and 
for carrying out section 908 of the Social Security Act, $92,406,000, 
together with not to exceed $46,655,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.


                     training and employment services

    For expenses necessary to carry into effect the Job Training 
Partnership Act, as amended, including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, the construction, alteration, and repair of 
buildings and other facilities, and the purchase of real property for 
training centers as authorized by the Job Training Partnership Act, 
$4,615,801,000 plus reimbursements, to be available for obligation for 
the period July 1, 1994, through June 30, 1995, of which $64,218,000 
shall be for carrying out section 401, $85,576,000 shall be for carrying 
out section 402, $8,957,000 shall be for carrying out section 441, 
$1,473,000 shall be for the National Commission for Employment Policy, 
$5,579,000 shall be for all activities conducted by and through the 
National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee under the Job 
Training Partnership Act, and $3,861,000 shall be for service delivery 
areas under section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii) of the Job Training Partnership 
Act in addition to amounts otherwise provided under sections 202, 252 
and 262 of the Act; and, in addition, $126,556,000 is appropriated for 
necessary expenses of construction, rehabilitation, and acquisition of 
Job Corps centers, including $20,000,000 for new centers, as authorized 
by the Job Training Partnership Act, in addition to amounts otherwise 
provided herein for the Job Corps, to be available for obligation for 
the period July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1997; and, in addition, 
$206,000,000 is appropriated for carrying out part B of title II of the 
Job Training Partnership Act to be available for obligation for the 
period October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1994; and, in addition, 
$50,000,000 is appropriated for carrying out part D of title IV of the 
Job Training Partnership Act to be available for obligation for the 
period October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1995; and, in addition, $744,000 
is appropriated for the Glass Ceiling Commission authorized by title II 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1991; and, in addition, $1,122,000 is 
appropriated for the National Center for the Workplace authorized by 
title XV, part A, of Public Law 102-325; and, in addition, $12,537,000 
is appropriated for activities authorized by title VII, subtitle C of 
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act and, in addition, 
$750,000 is appropriated for the Women in Apprenticeship and 
Nontraditional Occupations Act (Public Law 102-530): Provided, That no 
funds from any other appropriation shall be used to provide meal 
services at or for Job Corps centers.


             community service employment for older americans

    To carry out the activities for national grants or contracts with 
public agencies and public or private nonprofit organizations under 
paragraph (1)(A) of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act 
of 1965, as amended, $320,190,000.
    To carry out the activities for grants to States under paragraph (3) 
of section 506(a) of title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as 
amended, $90,310,000.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during the current fiscal year of benefits and payments 
as authorized by title II of Public Law 95-250, as amended, and of trade 
adjustment benefit payments and allowances under part I, and for 
training, for allowances for job search and relocation, and for related 
State administrative expenses under part II, subchapter B, chapter 2, 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, $190,000,000 together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15 of 
the current year: Provided, That amounts received or recovered pursuant 
to section 208(e) of Public Law 95-250 shall be available for payments.

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    For activities authorized by the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended (29 
U.S.C. 49-49l-1; 39 U.S.C. 3202(a)(1)(E)); title III of the Social 
Security Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 502-504); necessary administrative 
expenses for carrying out 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and sections 225, 231-235 
and 243-244, title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended; as 
authorized by section 7c of the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, 
necessary administrative expenses under sections 101(a)(15)(H), 
212(a)(5)(A), (m) (2) and (3), (n)(1), and 218(g) (1), (2), and (3), and 
258(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1101 
et seq.); necessary administrative expenses to carry out the Targeted 
Jobs Tax Credit Program under section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, and section 221(a) of the Immigration Act of 1990, $77,042,000 
together with not to exceed $3,376,617,000 (including not to exceed 
$2,098,000 which may be used for amortization payments to States which 
had independent retirement plans in their State employment service 
agencies prior to 1980, and including not to exceed $1,000,000 which may 
be obligated in contracts with non-State entities for activities such as 
occupational and test research activities which benefit the Federal-
State Employment Service System), which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund, and of which the sums available in the allocation for activities 
authorized by title III of the Social Security Act, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 502-504), and the sums available in the allocation for necessary 
administrative expenses for carrying out 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, shall be 
available for obligation by the States through December 31, 1994, except 
that funds used for automation acquisitions shall be available for 
obligation by States through September 30, 1996; and of which 
$74,986,000 together with not to exceed $807,870,000 of the amount which 
may be expended from said trust fund shall be available for obligation 
for the period July 1, 1994, through June 30, 1995, to fund activities 
under the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, including the cost of penalty 
mail made available to States in lieu of allotments for such purpose, 
and of which $347,272,000 shall be available only to the extent 
necessary for additional State allocations to administer unemployment 
compensation laws to finance increases in the number of unemployment 
insurance claims filed and claims paid or changes in a State law: 
Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (AWIU) for fiscal year 1994 is projected by the Department 
of Labor to exceed 3.28 million, an additional $27,000,000 shall be 
available for obligation for every 100,000 increase in the AWIU level 
(including a pro rata amount for any increment less than 100,000) from 
the Employment Security Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

         advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, as amended, and 
to the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 
9501(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; and for 
nonrepayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 
section 8509 of title 5, United States Code, and section 104(d) of 
Public Law 102-164, and section 5 of Public Law 103-6, and to the 
``Federal unemployment benefits and allowances'' account, to remain 
available until September 30, 1995, $2,556,000,000.
    In addition, for making repayable advances to the Black Lung 
Disability Trust Fund in the current fiscal year after September 15, 
1994, for costs incurred by the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund in the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                       Labor-Management Standards

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for Labor-Management Standards, $27,309,000.

               Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for Pension and Welfare Benefits 
Administration, $64,058,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

                pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is authorized to make such 
expenditures, including financial assistance authorized by section 104 
of Public Law 96-364, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program through September 30, 1994, for such Corporation: Provided, That 
not to exceed $34,194,000 shall be available for administrative expenses 
of the Corporation: Provided further, That expenses of such Corporation 
in connection with the termination of pension plans, for the 
acquisition, protection or management, and investment of trust assets, 
and for benefits administration services shall be considered as non-
administrative expenses for the purposes hereof, and excluded from the 
above limitation.

                   Employment Standards Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employment Standards Administration, 
including reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their 
employees for inspection services rendered, $237,176,000 together with 
$989,000 which may be expended from the Special Fund in accordance with 
sections 39(c) and 44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor is authorized to 
accept, retain and spend in the name of the Department of Labor all sums 
of money ordered to be paid to the Secretary of Labor, in accordance 
with the terms of the Consent Judgment in Civil Action No. 91-0027 of 
the United States District Court for the District of the Northern 
Mariana Islands (May 21, 1992).


                             special benefits

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior fiscal 
year authorized by title 5, chapter 81 of the United States Code; 
continuation of benefits as provided for under the head ``Civilian War 
Benefits'' in the Federal Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; the 
Employees' Compensation Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; and sections 
4(c) and 5(f) of the War Claims Act of 1948 (50 U.S.C. App. 2012); and 
50 per centum of the additional compensation and benefits required by 
section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as 
amended, $279,000,000 together with such amounts as may be necessary to 
be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for the payment of 
compensation and other benefits for any period subsequent to August 15 
of the current year: Provided, That such sums as are necessary may be 
used for a demonstration project under section 8104 of title 5, United 
States Code, in which the Secretary may reimburse an employer, who is 
not the employer at the time of injury, for portions of the salary of a 
reemployed, disabled beneficiary: Provided further, That balances of 
reimbursements from Federal Government agencies unobligated on September 
30, 1993, shall remain available until expended for the payment of 
compensation, benefits, and expenses: Provided further, That in addition 
there shall be transferred from the Postal Service fund to this 
appropriation such sums as the Secretary of Labor determines to be the 
cost of administration for Postal Service employees through September 
30, 1994: Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any 
person filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 
Subchapter 5, U.S.C., Chapter 81, or under Subchapter 33, U.S.C. 901, et 
seq. (the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended), 
provide as part of such notice and claim, such identifying information 
(including Social Security account number) as such regulations may 
prescribe.


                     black lung disability trust fund

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For payments from the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund, 
$1,002,175,000, of which $947,967,000, shall be available until 
September 30, 1995, for payment of all benefits as authorized by section 
9501(d) (1), (2), (4), and (7), of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as 
amended, and interest on advances as authorized by section 9501(c)(2) of 
that Act, and of which $29,529,000 shall be available for transfer to 
Employment Standards Administration, Salaries and Expenses, and 
$24,384,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Salaries and 
Expenses, and $295,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, Office 
of Inspector General, for expenses of operation and administration of 
the Black Lung Benefits program as authorized by section 9501(d)(5)(A) 
of that Act: Provided, That in addition, such amounts as may be 
necessary may be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for the 
payment of compensation, interest, or other benefits for any period 
subsequent to June 15 of the current year: Provided further, That in 
addition such amounts shall be paid from this fund into miscellaneous 
receipts as the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be the 
administrative expenses of the Department of the Treasury for 
administering the fund during the current fiscal year, as authorized by 
section 9501(d)(5)(B) of that Act.

              Occupational Safety and Health Administration


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $297,244,000, including not to exceed $68,630,000, which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under section 
23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, which grants shall be 
no less than fifty percent of the costs of State occupational safety and 
health programs required to be incurred under plans approved by the 
Secretary under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 
1970: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this paragraph 
shall be obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, administer, or 
enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Occupational 
Safety and Health Act of 1970 which is applicable to any person who is 
engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a temporary labor 
camp and employs ten or fewer employees: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated under this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to 
administer or enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 with respect to any employer 
of ten or fewer employees who is included within a category having an 
occupational injury lost workday case rate, at the most precise Standard 
Industrial Classification Code for which such data are published, less 
than the national average rate as such rates are most recently published 
by the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in 
accordance with section 24 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 673), except--
        (1) to provide, as authorized by such Act, consultation, 
    technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
    conduct surveys and studies;
        (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response to an 
    employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations found during 
    such inspection, and to assess a penalty for violations which are 
    not corrected within a reasonable abatement period and for any 
    willful violations found;
        (3) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    imminent dangers;
        (4) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    health hazards;
        (5) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to a 
    report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or more 
    employees or which results in hospitalization of two or more 
    employees, and to take any action pursuant to such investigation 
    authorized by such Act; and
        (6) to take any action authorized by such Act with respect to 
    complaints of discrimination against employees for exercising rights 
    under such Act:
Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to any 
person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs ten or fewer employees.

                  Mine Safety and Health Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $195,002,000, of which $5,740,000 shall be for the State 
Grants Program, including purchase and bestowal of certificates and 
trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid work, and the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles; the Secretary is authorized to accept 
lands, buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public and 
private sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with other 
agencies, Federal, State, or private; the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration is authorized to promote health and safety education and 
training in the mining community through cooperative programs with 
States, industry, and safety associations; and any funds available to 
the Department may be used, with the approval of the Secretary, to 
provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival operations in the 
event of a major disaster: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to carry out section 
115 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 or to carry out 
that portion of section 104(g)(1) of such Act relating to the 
enforcement of any training requirements, with respect to shell 
dredging, or with respect to any sand, gravel, surface stone, surface 
clay, colloidal phosphate, or surface limestone mine.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, including 
advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local agencies and 
their employees for services rendered, $282,018,000, together with not 
to exceed $51,927,000, which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund.

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of five sedans, and including up to $4,320,000 for the President's 
Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities, $143,127,000, 
together with not to exceed $332,000, which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

                          working capital fund

    For expenses necessary during the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1994, and each fiscal year thereafter, for the maintenance and operation 
of a comprehensive program of centralized services which the Secretary 
of Labor may prescribe and deem appropriate and advantageous to provide 
on a reimbursable basis under the provisions of the Economy Act (subject 
to prior notice to OMB) in the national office and field: Provided, That 
such fund shall be reimbursed in advance from funds available to 
agencies, bureaus, and offices for which such centralized services are 
performed at rates which will return in full cost of operations 
including services obtained through cooperative administrative services 
units under the Economy Act, including reserves for accrued annual 
leave, worker's compensation, depreciation of capitalized equipment, and 
amortization of ADP software and systems (either acquired or donated): 
Provided further, That funds received for services rendered to any 
entity or person for use of Departmental facilities, including 
associated utilities and security services, shall be credited to and 
merged with this fund.


         assistant secretary for veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $186,648,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 2001-10 and 2021-26.

                       office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $47,215,000, together with not to exceed $3,990,000, which may 
be expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. The Secretary of Labor is authorized to accept, in the 
name of the Department of Labor, and employ or dispose of in furtherance 
of authorized activities of the Department of Labor, any money or 
property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by 
gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds in the Employees' Compensation Fund 
under 5 U.S.C. 8147 shall be expended for payment of compensation, 
benefits, and expenses to any individual convicted of a violation of 18 
U.S.C. 1920, or of any felony fraud related to the application for or 
receipt of benefits under subchapters I or III of chapter 81 of title 5, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 103. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended by the Secretary of Labor to implement or administer either the 
final or proposed regulations referred to in section 303 of Public Law 
102-27.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.

            TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration


                       health resources and services

    For carrying out titles II, III, VII, VIII, X, XII, XIX, and XXVI of 
the Public Health Service Act, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine 
Health and Safety Act, title V of the Social Security Act, the Health 
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, as amended, Public Law 101-527, 
and the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, as amended, 
$2,926,381,000, of which $415,000 shall remain available until expended 
for interest subsidies on loan guarantees made prior to fiscal year 1981 
under part B of title VII of the Public Health Service Act: Provided, 
That when the Department of Health and Human Services administers or 
operates an employee health program for any Federal department or 
agency, payment for the full estimated cost shall be made by way of 
reimbursement or in advance to this appropriation: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $942,000 shall be 
available until expended for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. 
Long Hansen's Disease Center: Provided further, That no more than 
$5,000,000 is available for carrying out the provisions of Public Law 
102-501: Provided further, That in addition to fees authorized by 
section 427(b) of the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, fees 
shall be collected for the full disclosure of information under the Act 
sufficient to recover the full costs of operating the National 
Practitioner Data Bank, and shall remain available until expended to 
carry out that Act.

               medical facilities guarantee and loan fund


             federal interest subsidies for medical facilities

    For carrying out subsections (d) and (e) of section 1602 of the 
Public Health Service Act, $9,000,000, together with any amounts 
received by the Secretary in connection with loans and loan guarantees 
under title VI of the Public Health Service Act, to be available without 
fiscal year limitation for the payment of interest subsidies. During the 
fiscal year, no commitments for direct loans or loan guarantees shall be 
made.

                health education assistance loans program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out the purpose of the program, as authorized by title VII of the 
Public Health Service Act, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
total loan principal any part of which is to be guaranteed at not to 
exceed $375,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry 
out the guaranteed loan program, $2,946,000.


              vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund, such sums as may be necessary for claims associated with vaccine-
related injury or death with respect to vaccines administered after 
September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 of title XXI of the Public 
Health Service Act, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be 
available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services.


                        vaccine injury compensation

    For payment of claims resolved by the United States Court of Federal 
Claims related to the administration of vaccines before October 1, 1988, 
$110,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


                  disease control, research, and training

    To carry out titles II, III, VII, XI, XV, XVII, and XIX of the 
Public Health Service Act, sections 101, 102, 103, 201, 202, and 203 of 
the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, and sections 20, 21, and 
22 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; including 
insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries; and hire, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft, $2,051,132,000, of which 
$16,648,000 shall remain available until expended for equipment and 
construction and renovation of facilities, and in addition, such sums as 
may be derived from authorized user fees, which shall be credited to 
this account: Provided, That training of private persons shall be made 
subject to reimbursement or advances to this appropriation for not in 
excess of the full cost of such training: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for payment of the 
costs of medical care, related expenses, and burial expenses hereafter 
incurred by or on behalf of any person who had participated in the study 
of untreated syphilis initiated in Tuskegee, Alabama, in 1932, in such 
amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as prescribed by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services and for payment, in such amounts 
and subject to such terms and conditions, of such costs and expenses 
hereafter incurred by or on behalf of such person's wife or offspring 
determined by the Secretary to have suffered injury or disease from 
syphilis contracted from such person: Provided further, That amounts 
received by the National Center for Health Statistics from 
reimbursements and interagency agreements and the sale of data tapes may 
be credited to this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
up to $28,873,000 shall be available from amounts available under 
section 241 of the Public Health Service Act, to carry out the National 
Center for Health Statistics surveys.

                      National Institutes of Health


                         national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to cancer, $2,082,267,000.


                 national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out sections 301 and 1105 and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood 
diseases, and blood and blood products, $1,277,880,000.


                   national institute of dental research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to dental disease, $169,520,000.


     national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases, 
$716,054,000.


          national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to neurological disorders and stroke, 
$630,650,000.


           national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to allergy and infectious diseases, 
$1,065,583,000.


              national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to general medical sciences, $875,511,000.


         national institute of child health and human development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to child health and human development, 
$555,195,000.

                         national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, 
$290,260,000.


            national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out sections 301 and 311, and title IV of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health sciences, 
$264,249,000.


                        national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to aging, $420,303,000.


   national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to arthritis, and musculoskeletal and skin 
diseases, $223,280,000.


     national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to deafness and other communication disorders, 
$162,823,000.


                  national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to nursing research, $51,018,000.


            national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to alcohol abuse, and alcoholism, $185,617,000.


                     national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $425,201,000.


                    national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to mental health, $613,444,000.


                  national center for research resources

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to research resources and general research 
support grants, $331,915,000: Provided, That none of these funds shall 
be used to pay recipients of the general research support grants program 
any amount for indirect expenses in connection with such grants: 
Provided further, That $7,000,000 shall be for extramural facilities 
construction grants to be awarded on a competitive basis and in 
accordance with the criteria of section 481A(c)(2) of subpart 1 of part 
E of title IV.


                 national center for human genome research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to human genome research, $128,701,000.


                   john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities at the John E. Fogarty International 
Center, $21,677,000.


                       national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to health information communications, 
$119,981,000.

                         office of the director


                       (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the Director, 
National Institutes of Health, $233,605,000: Provided, That funding 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed five passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only: Provided further, That the Director 
may direct up to 1 percent of the total amount made available in this 
Act to all National Institutes of Health appropriations to emergency 
activities the Director may so designate: Provided further, That no such 
appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more than 1 percent by 
any such transfers and that the Congress is promptly notified of the 
transfer.


                         buildings and facilities

    For construction of, and acquisition of equipment for, facilities of 
or used by the National Institutes of Health, including the acquisition 
of real property, $111,039,000, to remain available until expended.

        Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration


                substance abuse and mental health services

    For carrying out the Public Health Service Act with respect to 
substance abuse and mental health services, section 612 of Public Law 
100-77, as amended, and the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill 
Individuals Act of 1986, $2,125,178,000, of which $952,000, together 
with unobligated balances for facilities renovation, shall be available 
for maintenance and repair of Federally-owned facilities at Saint 
Elizabeths Hospital and shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no portion of amounts appropriated for the programs of the 
Department of Health and Human Services shall be available for 
obligation pursuant to section 571 of the Public Health Service Act, 
other than an amount of $3,750,000 from amounts appropriated to carry 
out section 510 of that Act.

                     Assistant Secretary for Health


               office of the assistant secretary for health

    For the expenses necessary for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Health and for carrying out titles III, XVII, XX, and XXI of the 
Public Health Service Act, $69,917,000, and, in addition, amounts 
received by the Public Health Service from Freedom of Information Act 
fees, reimbursable and interagency agreements and the sale of data tapes 
shall be credited to this appropriation and shall remain available until 
expended.


       retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, and for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan 
and for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), and for payments 
pursuant to section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
429(b)), such amounts as may be required during the current fiscal year.

               Agency for Health Care Policy and Research


                      health care policy and research

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the Public Health Service Act, 
and part A of title XI of the Social Security Act, $135,409,000, 
together with not to exceed $4,792,000 to be transferred from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 1142 of the Social 
Security Act and not to exceed $994,000 to be transferred from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social 
Security Act; and, in addition, amounts received from Freedom of 
Information Act fees, reimbursable and interagency agreements, and the 
sale of data tapes shall be credited to this appropriation and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the amount made 
available pursuant to section 926(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
shall not exceed $13,204,000.

                  Health Care Financing Administration


                       grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX of 
the Social Security Act, $64,477,413,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 1994, payments to States under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 1994 for 
unanticipated costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States under title XIX of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 1995, $26,600,000,000 to remain 
available until expended.
    Payment under title XIX may be made for any quarter with respect to 
a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such quarter, if 
submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that or any 
subsequent quarter.


                    payments to health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
217(g) and 1844 of the Social Security Act, sections 103(c) and 111(d) 
of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, section 278(d) of Public Law 
97-248, and for administrative expenses incurred pursuant to section 
201(g) of the Social Security Act, $45,731,440,000.

                           program management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
and XIX of the Social Security Act, title XIII of the Public Health 
Service Act, the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, 
section 4360 of Public Law 101-508, and section 4005(e) of Public Law 
100-203, not to exceed $2,189,960,000, together with all funds collected 
in accordance with section 353 of the Public Health Service Act, the 
latter funds to remain available until expended; the $2,189,960,000 to 
be transferred to this appropriation as authorized by section 201(g) of 
the Social Security Act, from the Federal Hospital Insurance and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds: Provided, That all 
funds derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from organizations 
established under title XIII of the Public Health Service Act are to be 
credited to this appropriation.

                     Social Security Administration

                 payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Funds, as provided under sections 
201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, $28,178,000.

                special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, $575,181,000, to remain available until expended.
    For making, after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977, for costs incurred in the current fiscal year, such 
amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 for the first quarter of fiscal year 1995, 
$190,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  supplemental security income program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$20,183,775,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year and 
not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to the 
Treasury.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For carrying out title XVI of the Social Security Act for the first 
quarter of fiscal year 1995, $6,770,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, not more than $4,876,085,000 may be 
expended, as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act 
or as necessary to carry out sections 9704 and 9706 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 as such sections were in effect on January 1, 1993, 
from any one or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, 
That reimbursement to the Trust Funds under this heading for 
administrative expenses to carry out sections 9704 and 9706 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be made, with interest, not later 
than September 30, 1996: Provided further, That not more than $1,800,000 
is available until September 30, 1995 for expenses necessary for the 
Commission on the Social Security ``Notch'' Issue, established by 
section 635 of Public Law 102-393 as amended.
    In addition to funding already available under this heading, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $320,000,000, of which 
$260,000,000 shall be derived from the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund, for disability caseload processing.
    In addition to funding already available under this heading, and 
subject to the same terms and conditions, $300,000,000, which shall 
remain available until expended, to invest in a state-of-the-art 
computing network, including related equipment and administrative 
expenses associated solely with this network, for the Social Security 
Administration and the State Disability Determination Services, may be 
expended from any or all of the trust funds as authorized by section 
201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act.

                Administration for Children and Families

                    family support payments to states

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities, except 
as otherwise provided, under titles I, IV-A (other than section 
402(g)(6)) and D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act, and 
the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), $11,915,966,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, payments to 
States or other non-Federal entities under titles I, IV-A and D, X, XI, 
XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act, for the last three months of 
the current year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the current 
fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
titles I, IV-A (other than section 402(g)(6)) and D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI 
of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9) 
for the first quarter of fiscal year 1995, $4,200,000,000 to remain 
available until expended.

                payments to states for afdc work programs

    For carrying out aid to families with dependent children work 
programs, as authorized by part F of title IV of the Social Security 
Act, $1,100,000,000.


                     low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, $1,475,000,000 to be available for 
obligation in the period October 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995.
    For making payments under title XXVI of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, an additional $600,000,000: Provided, That 
all of the funds available under this paragraph are hereby designated by 
Congress to be emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: 
Provided further, That these funds shall be made available only after 
submission to Congress of a formal budget request by the President that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For making payments for refugee and entrant assistance activities 
authorized by title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 
96-422), $400,000,000.

                     community services block grant

    For making payments under the Community Services Block Grant Act, 
section 408 of Public Law 99-425, and the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act, $464,224,000, of which $42,940,000 shall be for carrying 
out section 681(a) of the Community Services Block Grant Act, including 
$12,000,000 which shall be for carrying out the National Youth Sports 
Program: Provided, That payments from such amount to the grantee and 
subgrantee administering the National Youth Sports Program may not 
exceed the aggregate amount contributed in cash or in kind by the 
grantee and subgrantee: Provided further, That amounts in excess of 
$9,400,000 of such amount may not be made available to the grantee and 
subgrantees administering the National Youth Sports Program unless the 
grantee agrees to provide contributions in cash over and above the 
preceding year's cash contribution to such program in an amount that 
equals 29 percent of such excess amount.

              payments to states for child care assistance

    For carrying out sections 658A through 658R of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981, $892,711,000, which shall be available for 
obligation under the same statutory terms and conditions applicable in 
the prior fiscal year.

                       social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $2,800,000,000. For carrying out section 2007 of the 
Social Security Act, an additional $1,000,000,000, which shall remain 
available until expended.

                 children and families services programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act, the Head 
Start Act, the Child Development Associate Scholarship Assistance Act of 
1985, the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, chapters 1 and 2 of 
subtitle B of title III of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, the Family 
Violence Prevention and Services Act, the Native American Programs Act 
of 1974, title II of Public Law 95-266 (adoption opportunities), the 
Temporary Child Care for Children with Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries 
Act of 1986, the Comprehensive Child Development Act, the Abandoned 
Infants Assistance Act of 1988, chapter 2 of subtitle A of title IX of 
Public Law 101-501, subtitle F of title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act, and part B of title IV and section 1110 of the 
Social Security Act, and for necessary administrative expenses to carry 
out said Acts and titles I, IV, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XX of the Social 
Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, section 204 of the Immigration Reform 
and Control Act of 1986, title IV of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act, section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, Public 
Law 100-77, the Commission on Child and Family Welfare established under 
Public Law 102-521, and section 126 and titles IV and V of Public Law 
100-485, $4,237,050,000.


                      family support and preservation

    For carrying out section 430 of the Social Security Act, 
$60,000,000.

       payments to states for foster care and adoption assistance

    For making payments to States or other non-Federal entities, under 
title IV-E of the Social Security Act, $2,992,900,000.

                         Administration on Aging


                          aging services programs

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended, and section 10404 of Public Law 101-
239 (volunteer senior aides demonstration), $871,282,000.

                         Office of the Secretary


                      general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six medium sedans, 
$94,431,000, together with $31,261,000, to be transferred and expended 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein.


                        office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $63,590,000, together with not to exceed $36,617,000, to be 
transferred and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the 
Social Security Act from any one or all of the trust funds referred to 
therein.


                          office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, $18,308,000, 
together with not to exceed $3,874,000, to be transferred and expended 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein.

                             policy research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, research 
studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, $12,000,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. None of the funds made available by this Act for the 
National Institutes of Health, except for those appropriated to the 
``Office of the Director'', may be used to provide forward funding or 
multiyear funding of research project grants except in those cases where 
the Director of the National Institutes of Health has determined that 
such funding is specifically required because of the scientific 
requirements of a particular research project grant.
    Sec. 202. Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $37,000 for official reception and representation expenses 
when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 203. The Secretary shall make available through assignment not 
more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child 
survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds 
provided by the Agency for International Development, the United Nations 
International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 204. None of the funds appropriated in this title for the 
National Institutes of Health and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
Services Administration shall be used to pay the salary of an 
individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in 
excess of $125,000 per year.
    Sec. 205. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, amounts 
available in this Act for administrative costs for each agency of the 
Public Health Service funded in this Act shall not exceed the amount set 
forth therefor for each such agency in the budget estimates and 
accompanying justification of estimates submitted for the 
appropriations.
    Sec. 206. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be used 
to implement the provisions of section 706(e) of the ADAMHA 
Reorganization Act, Public Law 102-321, or section 399L(b) of the Public 
Health Service Act or section 1911(d) and section 1503 of the National 
Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993, Public Law 103-43.
    Sec. 207. For the purpose of carrying out subparts II and III of 
part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-21 
et seq.) for fiscal year 1994, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall obligate $7,532,065 from the amounts made available 
pursuant to section 1935(b) of that Act for fiscal year 1994 to those 
States and Indian tribes or tribal organizations for which the amounts 
specified in the award statement issued by the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration under those subparts on November 
2, 1992, was greater than the amount specified in the award statement 
issued on August 6, 1993, in the amounts equal to those differentials.
    Sec. 208. Not to exceed $190,400,000 may be obligated in fiscal year 
1994 for contracts with Utilization and Quality Control Peer Review 
Organizations pursuant to part B of title XI of the Social Security Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                   TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION


                             education reform

                       (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out education reform activities authorized in law 
including activities authorized by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and 
Applied Technology Education Act, $155,000,000, of which $5,000,000, 
under section 402 of the Perkins Act, shall be used by the Secretary for 
activities, including peer review of applications, related to school-to-
work transition, and $45,000,000 shall be used under section 420A of the 
Perkins Act for State grants and subgrants to initiate activities in 
States and localities related to school-to-work transition: Provided, 
That $105,000,000 of the funds provided shall be for carrying out 
activities authorized by the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, or similar 
legislation, if enacted into law by April 1, 1994, of which $5,000,000 
shall be used for ``State Planning for Improving Student Achievement 
Through Integration of Technology Into the Curriculum''; and that if 
such legislation is not enacted by that date, the $105,000,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Student Financial Assistance'' to be used to alleviate 
the funding shortfall in the Pell Grant program under subpart 1 of part 
A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall become available 
on July 1, 1994 and remain available through September 30, 1995.


               compensatory education for the disadvantaged

    For carrying out the activities authorized by chapter 1 of title I 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, and 
by section 418A of the Higher Education Act, $6,924,497,000, of which 
$6,896,052,000 shall become available on July 1, 1994 and shall remain 
available through September 30, 1995: Provided, That $5,642,000,000 
shall be available for basic grants under section 1005, $694,000,000 
shall be available for concentration grants under section 1006, 
$41,434,000 shall be available for capital expenses under section 1017, 
$91,373,000 shall be available for the Even Start program under part B, 
$305,193,000 shall be available for migrant education activities under 
subpart 1 of part D, $35,407,000 shall be available for delinquent and 
neglected education activities under subpart 3 of part D, $60,712,000 
shall be for State administration under section 1404, $25,933,000 shall 
be for program improvement activities under section 1405, $13,100,000 
shall be for evaluation and technical assistance under sections 1437 and 
1463, and $4,960,000 shall be for rural technical assistance under 
section 1459: Provided further, That no State shall receive less than 
$340,000 from the amounts made available under this appropriation for 
concentration grants under section 1006: Provided further, That no State 
shall receive less than $375,000 from the amounts made available under 
this appropriation for State administration grants under section 1404.


                                impact aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools as authorized by Public Laws 81-815 and 81-874, as 
amended, $798,208,000: Provided, That $613,445,000 shall be for payments 
under section 3(a), $123,129,000 shall be for payments under section 
3(b), $33,437,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
payments under section 3(d)(2)(B), $16,293,000 shall be for payments 
under section 2, and $11,904,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for construction and renovation of school facilities, including 
$4,563,000 for awards under section 10, $3,770,000 for awards under 
sections 14(a) and 14(b), and $3,571,000 for awards under sections 5 and 
14(c): Provided further, That all payments under section 3 shall be 
based on the number of children who, during the prior fiscal year, were 
in average daily attendance at the schools of a local educational agency 
and for whom such agency provided free public education, except that (1) 
any local educational agency that did not exist in the prior fiscal year 
and that would be eligible under this proviso for payments under section 
3 for the current fiscal year had it been an operating local educational 
agency in the prior fiscal year, shall be paid on the basis of the 
number of children who, during the current fiscal year, are in average 
daily attendance at the schools of such agency and for whom such agency 
provides free public education; and (2) any local educational agency 
with an increase of 5 percent or more from the prior fiscal year to the 
current fiscal year in the number of children described in section 3 of 
the Act, as a direct result of activities of the United States, and that 
submits a written request to the Secretary, shall be paid on the basis 
of the number of children who, during the current fiscal year, are in 
average daily attendance at the schools of such agency and for whom such 
agency provides free public education: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 3(d)(3)(A), aggregate current 
expenditure and average daily attendance data for the third preceding 
fiscal year shall be used to compute local contribution rates: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the provisions of section 3(d)(2)(B), 
3(d)(3)(B)(ii), and 3(h)(2), eligibility and entitlement determinations 
for those sections shall be computed on the basis of data from the 
fiscal year preceding each fiscal year described in those respective 
sections as they were in effect for fiscal year 1991.


                        school improvement programs

    For carrying out the activities authorized by chapter 2 of title I 
and titles II, III, IV, V, without regard to sections 5112(a) and 
5112(c)(2)(A), and VI of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965; the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act; the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964; title V of the Higher Education Act; title IV of Public Law 
100-297; and the Follow Through Act; $1,376,659,000, of which 
$1,050,603,000 shall become available on July 1, 1994, and remain 
available through September 30, 1995: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated, $25,196,000 shall be for national programs under part B of 
chapter 2 of title I, and $250,998,000 shall be for State grants for 
mathematics and science education under part A of title II of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965: Provided further, That 
of the amount provided, $20,000,000 shall be used for Department of 
Education activities authorized under the Safe Schools Act, or similar 
legislation, if such legislation is enacted by April 1, 1994, except 
that if such legislation is not enacted by that date, this amount shall 
be transferred to ``Student Financial Assistance'' to be used to 
alleviate the funding shortfall in the Pell Grant program under subpart 
1 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.

                    bilingual and immigrant education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, title VII 
and part D of title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, 
$240,155,000, of which $36,431,000 shall be for training activities 
under part C of title VII, and $38,992,000, which shall become available 
on July 1, 1994 and remain available until September 30, 1995, shall be 
for immigrant education activities authorized by part D of title IV.


                             special education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and 
title I, chapter 1, part D, subpart 2 of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965, $3,108,702,000, of which $2,149,686,000 for 
section 611, $339,257,000 for section 619, $253,152,000 for section 686 
and $116,878,000 for title I, chapter 1, part D, subpart 2 shall become 
available for obligation on July 1, 1994, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 1995: Provided, That any State agency eligible to 
receive funds under such subpart shall, at a State's discretion, be 
deemed to be a local educational agency for the purposes of part B of 
the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act: Provided further, That 
no State shall receive more per child under such subpart than it 
received for fiscal year 1993: Provided further, That any funds for such 
subpart that are not allocated because of the preceding proviso shall be 
available for carrying out section 611 of the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act.


              rehabilitation services and disability research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Technology-Related Assistance for 
Individuals with Disabilities Act, and the Helen Keller National Center 
Act, as amended, $2,296,936,000.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities


                   american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, as amended (20 U.S.C. 101 
et seq.), $6,463,000.

                national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I and 
II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), 
$41,836,000, of which $336,000 shall be for the endowment program as 
authorized under section 207 and shall be available until expended and 
$193,000 shall be for construction and shall be available until 
expended.

                          gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model Secondary 
School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet University 
under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 
U.S.C. 4301 et seq.), $78,435,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be for the 
endowment program as authorized under section 207 and shall be available 
until expended, and $1,000,000 shall be for construction and shall be 
available until expended.

                     vocational and adult education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, the Adult 
Education Act, and the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, 
$1,481,183,000, of which $300,000 for the national assessment of 
vocational education shall become available October 1, 1993 and remain 
available until expended; $2,946,000 for tribally controlled 
postsecondary vocational institutions shall become available on October 
1, 1993 and remain available until September 30, 1994; and the remainder 
shall become available on July 1, 1994 and shall remain available 
through September 30, 1995: Provided, That of the amounts made available 
under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education 
Act, $436,000 of the amount available for Tech-Prep shall be for 
evaluation of the program and $38,077,000 shall be for national programs 
under title IV, including $9,662,000 for research, of which $6,000,000 
shall be for the National Center for Research on Vocational Education; 
$23,455,000 for demonstrations, notwithstanding section 411(b), 
including $3,000,000 for model community education and employment 
centers; and $4,960,000 for data systems: Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available under the Adult Education Act, $3,928,000 shall 
be for national programs under section 383, and $4,909,000 shall be for 
the National Institute for Literacy under section 384.

                      student financial assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 4 of part A, and parts C, E, and 
H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 
$8,020,160,000, which shall remain available through September 30, 1995: 
Provided, That the maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be 
eligible during award year 1994-1995 shall be $2,300: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 401(g) of the Act, as amended, if the 
Secretary determines, prior to publication of the payment schedule for 
award year 1994-1995, that the $6,303,566,000 included within this 
appropriation for Pell Grant awards for award year 1994-1995 is 
insufficient to satisfy fully all such awards for which students are 
eligible, as calculated under section 401(b) of the Act, the amount paid 
for each such award shall be reduced by either a fixed or variable 
percentage, or by a fixed dollar amount, as determined in accordance 
with a schedule of reductions established by the Secretary for this 
purpose: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 484(f) of such 
Act, the Secretary may, without limitation, require an institution of 
higher education to verify the accuracy of data used to determine 
student eligibility for assistance under title IV of that Act.


               federal family education loan program account

    For the cost of Federal Family Education loans, including 
administrative costs other than Federal administrative costs, as 
authorized by title IV, part B, of the Higher Education Act, as amended, 
such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the program: 
Provided, That such costs, including costs of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended. In addition, for Federal administrative expenses to 
carry out guaranteed student loans authorized by title IV, part B, of 
the Higher Education Act, as amended, $72,466,000.


                federal direct student loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans authorized by title IV, part D, of the 
Higher Education Act, as amended, such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the purposes of the program, including such sums as may be derived 
from negative subsidy receipts: Provided, That such costs, including 
costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                            higher education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles I, 
III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, part A, subpart 1 of part B and part D of 
title X, XI, without regard to section 1151, and XII and section 1410 of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended; the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961; and title VI of the Excellence in 
Mathematics, Science and Engineering Education Act of 1990; 
$893,688,000, of which $7,565,000 for endowment activities under section 
331 of part C of title III and $18,029,000 for interest subsidies under 
title VII of the Higher Education Act, as amended, shall remain 
available until expended, and $397,000 shall be available for section 
1204(c).

                            howard university

    For partial support of Howard University (20 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), 
$192,686,000, of which $3,441,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be for a matching endowment grant to be administered in accordance 
with the Howard University Endowment Act (Public Law 98-480).

                    higher education facilities loans

    The Secretary is hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within 
the limits of funds available under this heading and in accord with law, 
and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitation, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program for the current fiscal year.

          college housing and academic facilities loans program

    For administrative expenses to carry out the existing direct loan 
program of college housing and academic facilities loans entered into 
pursuant to title VII, part C, of the Higher Education Act, as amended, 
$730,000.

                          college housing loans

    Pursuant to title VII, part C of the Higher Education Act, as 
amended, for necessary expenses of the college housing loans program, 
previously carried out under title IV of the Housing Act of 1950, the 
Secretary shall make expenditures and enter into contracts without 
regard to fiscal year limitation using loan repayments and other 
resources available to this account. Any unobligated balances becoming 
available from fixed fees paid into this account pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 
1749d, relating to payment of costs for inspections and site visits, 
shall be available for the operating expenses of this account.


   historically black college and university capital financing, program 
                                 account

    To carry out the purposes of title VII, part B of the Higher 
Education Act, as amended, and subject to the limitations of section 724 
of such part, the Secretary is authorized to enter into insurance 
agreements to provide financial insurance to guarantee for full payment 
of principal and interest on qualified bonds upon the conditions set 
forth in subsections (b), (c) and (d) of section 723 of such part: 
Provided, That bonds insured pursuant to such part shall not exceed 
$357,000,000, and the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of such bonds shall not exceed zero.
    For administrative expenses to carry out the Historically Black 
College and University Capital Financing Program entered into pursuant 
to title VII, part B of the Higher Education Act, as amended, $200,000.

             education research, statistics, and improvement

    For carrying out the activities authorized by section 405 and 
section 406 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended (or any 
successor authority); section 1562, section 1566, section 2012, subpart 
2 of part A of title II, and parts B, E, and F of title IV of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; part B of 
title III of Public Law 100-297; title IX of the Education for Economic 
Security Act; title II of Public Law 102-62; and section 551 of the 
Higher Education Act, $292,592,000: Provided, That $31,000,000 shall be 
for research centers, including funds to extend the existing award for a 
research center on the education of disadvantaged students for up to one 
year; $38,032,000 shall be for regional laboratories, including 
$9,508,000 for rural initiatives; $32,500,000 shall be for activities 
under the Fund for Innovation in Education; $4,463,000 shall be for 
civic education activities under section 4609; $5,396,000 shall be for 
Grants for Schools and Teachers under subpart 1 and $3,687,000 shall be 
for Family School Partnerships under subpart 2 of part B of title III of 
Public Law 100-297; $16,072,000 shall be for national programs under 
section 2012, including not less than $5,472,000 for the National 
Clearinghouse for Science and Mathematics under section 2012(d); and 
$13,871,000 shall be for regional consortia under subpart 2 of part A of 
title II; $25,944,000 shall be for star schools, of which $4,000,000 
shall be awarded competitively for a demonstration of a statewide, two-
way interactive fiber optic telecommunications network, carrying voice, 
video, and data transmissions, and housing a point of presence in every 
county; and $3,212,000 shall be for the National Writing Project.


                                 libraries

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles I, 
II, III, IV, and VI of the Library Services and Construction Act (20 
U.S.C. ch. 16), and title II of the Higher Education Act, $146,309,000, 
of which $17,792,000 shall be used to carry out the provisions of title 
II of the Library Services and Construction Act and shall remain 
available until expended, and $4,960,000 shall be for section 222 and 
$2,802,000 shall be for section 223 of the Higher Education Act, of 
which $2,500,000 shall be for demonstration of on-line and dial-in 
access to a statewide, multitype library bibliographic data base through 
a statewide fiber optic network housing a point of presence in every 
county, connecting library services in every municipality, to be awarded 
competitively.

                         Departmental Management


                          program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, $352,008,000: Provided, That the Secretary may use funds 
appropriated to carry out any Department of Education programs under 
which awards are made on a competitive basis to reimburse this account 
for the direct expenses of non-Federal experts to review applications 
and proposals for such awards.


                          office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $56,570,000.


                      office of the inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $28,840,000.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds contained in this title may be used 
to force any school or school district which is desegregated as that 
term is defined in title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Public Law 
88-352, to take any action to force the busing of students; to force on 
account of race, creed or color the abolishment of any school so 
desegregated; or to force the transfer or assignment of any student 
attending any elementary or secondary school so desegregated to or from 
a particular school over the protest of his or her parents or parent.
    Sec. 302. (a) No part of the funds contained in this title shall be 
used to force any school or school district which is desegregated as 
that term is defined in title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Public 
Law 88-352, to take any action to force the busing of students; to 
require the abolishment of any school so desegregated; or to force on 
account of race, creed or color the transfer of students to or from a 
particular school so desegregated as a condition precedent to obtaining 
Federal funds otherwise available to any State, school district or 
school.
    (b) No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment 
for such transportation) in order to overcome racial imbalance in any 
school or school system, or for the transportation of students or 
teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such transportation) in 
order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of any school or 
school system.
    Sec. 303. None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, except 
for a student requiring special education, to the school offering such 
special education, in order to comply with title VI of the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an indirect requirement of 
transportation of students includes the transportation of students to 
carry out a plan involving the reorganization of the grade structure of 
schools, the pairing of schools, or the clustering of schools, or any 
combination of grade restructuring, pairing or clustering. The 
prohibition described in this section does not include the establishment 
of magnet schools.
    Sec. 304. No funds appropriated under this Act may be used to 
prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and 
meditation in the public schools.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 1994''.

                       TITLE IV--RELATED AGENCIES

                                 Action


                            operating expenses

    For expenses necessary for Action to carry out the provisions of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, $205,097,000.

                   Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as 
authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall be 
available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal year 
1996, $312,000,000, of which $7,000,000 shall be for Ready to Learn 
activities consistent with the purposes outlined in Public Law 102-545: 
Provided, That no funds made available to the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting by this Act shall be used to pay for receptions, parties, 
or similar forms of entertainment for Government officials or employees: 
Provided further, That none of the funds contained in this paragraph 
shall be available or used to aid or support any program or activity 
from which any person is excluded, or is denied benefits, or is 
discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, national origin, 
religion, or sex.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management 
Relations Act, 1947 (29 U.S.C. 171-180, 182-183), including hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; and for expenses necessary for the Labor-
Management Cooperation Act of 1978 (29 U.S.C. 175a); and for expenses 
necessary for the Service to carry out the functions vested in it by the 
Civil Service Reform Act, Public Law 95-454 (5 U.S.C. chapter 71), 
$30,241,000.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review 
Commission (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), $5,842,000.

        National Commission on Libraries and Information Science


                           salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the National Commission on Libraries and 
Information Science, established by the Act of July 20, 1970 (Public Law 
91-345, as amended by Public Law 102-95), $904,000.

                     National Council on Disability


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 
$1,690,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, as amended (29 U.S.C. 141-167), and other laws, $171,274,000: 
Provided, That no part of this appropriation shall be available to 
organize or assist in organizing agricultural laborers or used in 
connection with investigations, hearings, directives, or orders 
concerning bargaining units composed of agricultural laborers as 
referred to in section 2(3) of the Act of July 5, 1935 (29 U.S.C. 152), 
and as amended by the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, 
and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 25, 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
203), and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 95 
per centum of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes.

                        National Mediation Board


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151-188), including emergency boards 
appointed by the President, $8,657,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For the expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission (29 U.S.C. 661), $7,362,000.

                   Physician Payment Review Commission


                           salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1845(a) of the Social 
Security Act, $4,171,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                Prospective Payment Assessment Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1886(e) of the Social 
Security Act, $4,500,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Trust Funds.

                        Railroad Retirement Board


                      dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $277,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 1994 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds $277,000,000: 
Provided, That the total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 
approximately equal amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal 
year.


           federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $300,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1995, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.


                       limitation on administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board, 
$73,791,000, to be derived from the railroad retirement accounts: 
Provided, That $200,000 of the foregoing amount shall be available only 
to the extent necessary to process workloads not anticipated in the 
budget estimates and after maximum absorption of the costs of such 
workloads within the remainder of the existing limitation has been 
achieved:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, no portion of this limitation shall be available for payments of 
standard level user charges pursuant to section 210(j) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 
490(j); 45 U.S.C. 231-231u).


     limitation on railroad unemployment insurance administration fund

    For further expenses necessary for the Railroad Retirement Board, 
for administration of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, not less 
than $17,010,000 shall be apportioned for fiscal year 1994 from moneys 
credited to the railroad unemployment insurance administration fund.


                    special management improvement fund

    To effect management improvements, including the reduction of 
backlogs, accuracy of taxation accounting, and debt collection, 
$3,300,000, to be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and 
railroad unemployment insurance account: Provided, That these funds 
shall supplement, not supplant, existing resources devoted to such 
operations and improvements.


               limitation on the office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, not more than $6,742,000, to 
be derived from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad 
unemployment insurance account.

                       Soldiers' and Airmen's Home


                         operation and maintenance

    For operation and maintenance of the United States Soldiers' and 
Airmen's Home, to be paid from funds available to the Soldiers' Home in 
the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $43,139,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall not be available for the payment of 
hospitalization of members of the Home in United States Army hospitals 
at rates in excess of those prescribed by the Secretary of the Army upon 
recommendation of the Board of Commissioners and the Surgeon General of 
the Army.


                              capital outlay

    For construction and renovation of the physical plant, to be paid 
from funds available to the Soldier's Home in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $4,930,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                    United States Institute of Peace


                            operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace as 
authorized in the United States Institute of Peace Act, $10,912,000.

                        United States Naval Home


                         operation and maintenance

    For operation and maintenance of the United States Naval Home, to be 
paid from funds available to the Naval Home in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $10,775,000.


                              capital program

    For construction and renovation of the physical plant to be paid 
from funds available to the Naval Home in the Armed Forces Retirement 
Home Trust Fund, $473,000, to remain available until expended.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. No part of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
used to provide a loan, guarantee of a loan, a grant, the salary of or 
any remuneration whatever to any individual applying for admission, 
attending, employed by, teaching at, or doing research at an institution 
of higher education who has engaged in conduct on or after August 1, 
1969, which involves the use of (or the assistance to others in the use 
of) force or the threat of force or the seizure of property under the 
control of an institution of higher education, to require or prevent the 
availability of certain curricula, or to prevent the faculty, 
administrative officials, or students in such institution from engaging 
in their duties or pursuing their studies at such institution.
    Sec. 502. The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act: Provided, That such transferred balances are used 
for the same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they 
were originally appropriated.
    Sec. 503. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 504. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used, other than for normal and recognized executive-
legislative relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the 
preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, radio, television, or film presentation designed to support 
or defeat legislation pending before the Congress, except in 
presentation to the Congress itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be used 
to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, or 
agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress.
    Sec. 505. The Secretaries of Labor and Education are each authorized 
to make available not to exceed $7,500 from funds available for salaries 
and expenses under titles I and III, respectively, for official 
reception and representation expenses; the Director of the Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service is authorized to make available for 
official reception and representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from 
the funds available for ``Salaries and expenses, Federal Mediation and 
Conciliation Service''; and the Chairman of the National Mediation Board 
is authorized to make available for official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $2,500 from funds available for 
``Salaries and expenses, National Mediation Board''.
    Sec. 506. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be used to carry out any program of 
distributing sterile needles for the hypodermic injection of any illegal 
drug unless the Surgeon General of the United States determines that 
such programs are effective in preventing the spread of HIV and do not 
encourage the use of illegal drugs, except that such funds may be used 
for such purposes in furtherance of demonstrations or studies authorized 
in the ADAMHA Reorganization Act (Public Law 102-321).
    Sec. 507. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 508. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, monthly 
benefit payments under part B or part C of the Black Lung Benefits Act 
for months after December 1993 and before October 1994 shall be 
calculated as though the provisions of Federal law prescribing pay rates 
for Federal employees continued in effect, without amendment to or 
limitation of such provisions, after January 1993.
    (b) Of the amounts provided under title XII of Public Law 102-368, 
Additional Assistance to Distressed Communities, under the heading 
``Community Investment Program'', $225,000,000 are rescinded.
    Sec. 509. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except when it is made known to the Federal 
entity or official to which funds are appropriated under this Act that 
such procedure is necessary to save the life of the mother or that the 
pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1994''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.