[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 734 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.734

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the extension of 
certain Federal benefits, services, and assistance to the Pascua Yaqui 
Indians of Arizona, and for other purposes.''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SOVEREIGNTY OF PASCUA YAQUI TRIBE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of the first section of the Act 
entitled ``An Act to provide for the extension of certain Federal 
benefits, services, and assistance to the Pascua Yaqui Indians of 
Arizona, and for other purposes'' (25 U.S.C. 1300f(a)) is amended by 
inserting after the first sentence the following: ``The Pascua Yaqui 
Tribe, a historic Indian tribe, is acknowledged as a federally 
recognized Indian tribe possessing all the attributes of inherent 
sovereignty which have not been specifically taken away by Acts of 
Congress and which are not inconsistent with such tribal status.''.
    (b) Extension of Enrollment Deadline.--Section 3 of such Act (25 
U.S.C. 1300f-2) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (B) by striking ``and''; and
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (C) as paragraph (D) and 
    inserting after paragraph (B) the following new paragraph (C):
        ``(C) all those persons of Yaqui blood who are citizens of the 
    United States and who, within three years after the date of 
    enactment of this paragraph, apply for enrollment in the Pascua 
    Yaqui Tribe pursuant to the membership criteria and procedures 
    provided for in the official governing documents of the Pascua 
    Yaqui Tribe; and''.

SEC. 2. STUDY.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the extension of certain 
Federal benefits, services, and assistance to the Pascua Yaqui Indians 
of Arizona, and for other purposes'' (25 U.S.C. 1300f et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 4. STUDY.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct one 
or more studies to determine--
        ``(1) whether the lands held in trust on the date of enactment 
    of this section by the United States for the Pascua Yaqui Tribe are 
    adequate for the needs of the tribe for the foreseeable future;
        ``(2) if such lands are not adequate--
            ``(A) whether suitable additional lands are available for 
        acquisition by exchange or purchase; and
            ``(B) the cost and location of the suitable additional 
        lands;
        ``(3) whether the Pascua Yaqui Tribe has sufficient water 
    rights and allocations to meet the needs of the tribe for the 
    foreseeable future;
        ``(4) if such water rights and allocations are not adequate--
            ``(A) whether additional water can be acquired; and
            ``(B) the potential sources and associated costs of such 
        additional water;
        ``(5) whether the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian 
    Health Service have limited funding to the Pascua Yaqui Tribe based 
    on a determination of the tribal enrollment in 1978, rather than 
    the current enrollment;
        ``(6) if funding has been based on 1978 enrollment, how the 
    funding levels can be adjusted to ensure that the Pascua Yaqui 
    Tribe receives a fair and equitable portion of Bureau of Indian 
    Affairs and Indian Health Service funding;
        ``(7) the genealogy of the Pascua Yaqui Tribe; and
        ``(8) the economic development opportunities available to the 
    tribe as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
    ``(b) Tribal Participation.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
participation of members of the Pascua Yaqui tribe to carry out 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on which funds 
are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall submit a report to Congress that contains the results of 
each study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.