[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4709 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4709

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To make certain technical corrections, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. LEASING AUTHORITY OF THE INDIAN PUEBLO FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT 
CORPORATION.
    Notwithstanding the provisions of section 17 of the Act of June 18, 
1934 (48 Stat. 988, chapter 576; 25 U.S.C. 477), the Indian Pueblo 
Federal Development Corporation, whose charter was issued pursuant to 
such section by the Secretary of the Interior on January 15, 1993, 
shall have the authority to lease or sublease trust or restricted 
Indian lands for up to 50 years.

SEC. 2. GRAND RONDE RESERVATION ACT.

    (a) Lands Described.--Section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish a reservation for the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde 
Community of Oregon, and for other purposes'', approved September 9, 
1988 (102 Stat. 1594), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``9,879.65'' and inserting ``10,120.68''; 
        and
            (B) by striking all after


       ``6             8            1       SW\1/4\SW\1/4\,   53.78''   
                                             W\1/2\SE\1/4\S             
                                             W\1/4\                     
                                                                        


        and inserting the following:


       ``6             8            1       S\1/2\E\1/2\SE\     10.03   
                                             1/4\SW\1/4\                
        6              7            8       Tax lot 800          5.55   
        4              7            30      Lots 3, 4, SW\1/    240     
                                             4\NE\1/4\,                 
                                             SE\1/4\NW\1/4\             
                                             ,E\1/2\SW\1/4\             
                                                            ------------
                                                  Total....  10,120.68.'
                                                                      ';
                                                                        
                                                                        

    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Claims Extinguished; Liability.--
        ``(1) Claims extinguished.--All claims to lands within the 
    State of Oregon based upon recognized title to the Grand Ronde 
    Indian Reservation established by the Executive order of June 30, 
    1857, pursuant to treaties with the Kalapuya, Molalla, and other 
    tribes, or any part thereof by the Confederated Tribes of the Grand 
    Ronde Community of Oregon, or any predecessor or successor in 
    interest, are hereby extinguished, and any trans-P
    fers pursuant to the Act of April 28, 1904 (Chap. 1820; 33 Stat. 
    567) or other statute of the United States, by, from, or on behalf 
    of the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, 
    or any predecessor or successor interest, shall be deemed to have 
    been made in accordance with the Constitution and all laws of the 
    United States that are specifically applicable to transfers of 
    lands or natural resources from, by, or on behalf of any Indian, 
    Indian nation, or tribe of Indians (including, but not limited to, 
    the Act of July 22, 1790, commonly known as the `Trade and 
    Intercourse Act of 1790' (1 Stat. 137, chapter 33, section 4)).
        ``(2) Liability.--The Tribe shall assume responsibility for 
    lost revenues, if any, to any county because of the transfer of 
    revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands in section 30, 
    Township 4 South, Range 7 West.''.
    (b) Civil and Criminal Jurisdiction.--Section 3 of such Act (102 
Stat. 1595) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``Such 
exercise shall not affect the Tribe's concurrent jurisdiction over such 
matters.''.
SEC. 3. CONFEDERATED TRIBES OF THE SILETZ INDIANS OF OREGON.
    Section 2 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a reservation 
for the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon, approved 
September 4, 1980 (Public Law 96-340; 94 Stat. 1072) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a)'' after ``Sec. 2.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)(1) The Secretary of the Interior, acting at the request of 
the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians of Oregon, shall accept 
(subject to all valid rights-of-way and easements existing on the date 
of such request) any appropriate warranty deed conveying to the United 
States in trust for the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians of 
Oregon, contingent upon payment of all accrued and unpaid taxes, the 
following parcels of land located in Lincoln County, State of Oregon:
        ``(A) In Township 10 South, Range 8 West, Willamette Meridian--
            ``(i) a tract of land in the northwest and the northeast 
        quarters of section 7 consisting of 208.50 acres, more or less, 
        conveyed to the Tribe by warranty deed from John J. Jantzi and 
        Erma M. Jantzi on March 30, 1990; and
            ``(ii) 3 tracts of land in section 7 consisting of 18.07 
        acres, more or less, conveyed to the Tribe by warranty deed 
        from John J. Jantzi and Erma M. Jantzi on March 30, 1990.
        ``(B) In Township 10 South, Range 10 West, Willamette 
    Meridian--
            ``(i) a tract of land in section 4, including a portion of 
        United States Government Lot 31 lying west and south of the 
        Siletz River, consisting of 15.29 acres, more or less, conveyed 
        to the Tribe by warranty deed from Patrick J. Collson and 
        Patricia Ann Collson on February 27, 1991;
            ``(ii) a tract of land in section 9, located in Tract 60, 
        consisting of 4.00 acres, more or less, conveyed to the Tribe 
        by contract of sale from Gladys M. Faulkner on December 9, 
        1987;
            ``(iii) a tract of land in section 9, including portions of 
        the north one-half of United States Government Lot 15, 
        consisting of 7.34 acres, more or less, conveyed to the Tribe 
        by contract of sale from Clayton E. Hursh and Anna L. Hursh on 
        December 9, 1987;
            ``(iv) a tract of land in section 9, including a portion of 
        the north one-half of United States Government Lot 16, 
        consisting of 5.62 acres, more or less, conveyed to the Tribe 
        by warranty deed from Steve Jebert and Elizabeth Jebert on 
        December 1, 1987;
            ``(v) a tract of land in the southwest quarter of the 
        northwest quarter of section 9, consisting of 3.45 acres, more 
        or less, conveyed to the Tribe by warranty deed from Eugenie 
        Nashif on July 11, 1988; and
            ``(vi) a tract of land in section 10, including United 
        States Government Lot 8 and portions of United States 
        Government Lot 7, consisting of 29.93 acres, more or less, 
        conveyed to the Tribe by warranty deed from Doyle Grooms on 
        August 6, 1992.
        ``(C) In the northwest quarter of section 2 and the northeast 
    quarter of section 3, Township 7 South, Range 11 West, Willamette 
    Meridian, a tract of land comprising United States Government Lots 
    58, 59, 63, and 64, Lincoln Shore Star Resort, Lincoln City, 
    Oregon.
    ``(2) The parcels of land described in paragraph (1), together with 
the following tracts of lands which have been conveyed to the United 
States in trust for the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of 
Oregon--
        ``(A) a tract of land in section 3, Township 10 South, Range 10 
    West, Willamette Meridian, including portions of United States 
    Government Lots 25, 26, 27, and 28, consisting of 49.35 acres, more 
    or less, conveyed by the Siletz Tribe to the United States in trust 
    for the Tribe on March 15, 1986; and
        ``(B) a tract of land in section 9, Township 10 South, Range 10 
    West, Willamette Meridian, including United States Government Lot 
    33, consisting of 2.27 acres, more or less, conveyed by warranty 
    deed to the United States in trust for the Confederated Tribes of 
    Siletz Indians of Oregon from Harold D. Alldridge and Sylvia C. 
    Alldridge on June 30, 1981;
shall be subject to the limitations and provisions of sections 3, 4, 
and 5 of this Act and shall be deemed to be a restoration of land 
pursuant to section 7 of the Siletz Indian Tribe Restoration Act (25 
U.S.C. 711(e)).
    ``(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States 
should not incur any liability for conditions on any parcels of land 
taken into trust under this section.
    ``(4) As soon as practicable after the transfer of the parcels 
provided in paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
convey such parcels and publish a description of such lands in the 
Federal Register.''.
SEC. 4. TRANSFER OF PARCEL BY YSLETA DEL SUR PUEBLO.
    (a) Ratification.--The transfer of the land described in subsection 
(b), together with fixtures thereon, on July 12, 1991, by the Ysleta 
Del Sur Pueblo is hereby ratified and shall be deemed to have been made 
in accordance with the Constitution and all laws of the United States 
that are specifically applicable to transfers of land from, by, or on 
behalf of any Indian, Indian nation, or tribe or band of Indians 
(including section 2116 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 177)) as if 
Congress had given its consent prior to the transfer.
    (b) Lands Described.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) are 
more particularly described as follows:
    Tract 1-B-1 (1.9251 acres) and Tract 1-B-2-A (0.0748 acres), Block 
    2 San Elizario, El Paso County, Texas.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION FOR 99-YEAR LEASES.

    The second sentence of subsection (a) of the first section of the 
Act of August 9, 1955 (69 Stat. 539, chapter 615; 25 U.S.C. 415(a)) is 
amended by inserting ``the Viejas Indian Reservation,'' after ``Soboba 
Indian Reservation,''.

SEC. 6. WIND RIVER INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT.

    Funds appropriated for construction of the Wind River Indian 
Irrigation Project for fiscal year 1990 (pursuant to Public Law 101-
121), fiscal year 1991 (pursuant to the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-512)), and 
fiscal year 1992 (pursuant to the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 (Public Law 102-154)) shall 
be made available on a nonreimbursable basis.
SEC. 7. REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS INCURRED BY GILA RIVER INDIAN COMMUNITY 
FOR CERTAIN RECLAMATION CONSTRUCTION.
    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to pay $1,842,205 to 
the Gila River Indian Community as reimbursement for the costs incurred 
by the Gila River Indian Community for construction allocated to 
irrigation on the Sacaton Ranch that would have been nonreimbursable if 
such construction had been performed by the Bureau of Reclamation under 
section 402 of the Colorado River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1542).

SEC. 8. RECOGNITION OF INDIAN COMMUNITY.

    Section 10 of the Indian Law Technical Amendments of 1987 (Public 
Law 100-153) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The Frank's'' and inserting ``(a) Subject to 
    subsection (b), the Frank's'';
        (2) by striking ``recognized as eligible'' and inserting the 
    following:
``recognized--
        ``(1) as eligible'';
        (3) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
    and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) as a self-governing dependent Indian community that is 
    not subject to the jurisdiction of any federally recognized tribe.
    ``(b)(1) Nothing in this section may be construed to alter or 
affect the jurisdiction of the State of Washington under section 1162 
of title 18, United States Code.
    ``(2) Nothing in this section may be construed to constitute the 
recognition by the United States that the Frank's Landing Indian 
Community is a federally recognized Indian tribe.
    ``(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Frank's 
Landing Indian Community shall not engage in any class III gaming 
activity (as defined in section 3(8) of the Indian Gaming Regulatory 
Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2703(8))).''.

SEC. 9. RECONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN EXCESS LANDS.

    (a) In General.--The Congress finds that the Sac and Fox Nation of 
Oklahoma has determined the lands described in subsection (b) to be 
excess to their needs and should be returned to the original Indian 
grantors or their heirs. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to 
accept transfer of title from the Sac and Fox Nation of Oklahoma of its 
interest in the lands described in subsection (b).
    (b) Persons and Lands.--The lands and individuals referred to in 
subsection (a) are as follows:
        (1) To the United States of America in trust for Sadie Davis, 
    now Tyner, or her heirs or devisees, the Surface and Surface Rights 
    only in and to the SE\1/4\SE\1/4\SE\1/4\SE\1/4\ of section 28, 
    Township 17 North, Range 6 East of the Indian Meridian, Lincoln 
    County, Oklahoma, containing 2.50 acres, more or less.
        (2) To the United States of America in trust for Mabel Wakole, 
    or her heirs or devisees, the Surface and Surface Rights only in 
    and to the NE\1/4\NE\1/4\ of Lot 6 of NW\1/4\ of section 14, 
    Township 11 North, Range 4 East of the Indian Meridian, 
    Pottawatomie County, Oklahoma, containing 2.50 acres, more or less.
  SEC. 10. TITLE I OF PUBLIC LAW 97-459, PERTAINING TO THE DEVILS LAKE 
      SIOUX TRIBE.
    Paragraph (1) of section 108(a) of title I of Public Law 97-459 (96 
Stat. 2515) is amended by striking out ``of the date of death of the 
decedent'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``after the date on which the 
Secretary's determination of the heirs of the decedent becomes final''.

SEC. 11. NORTHERN CHEYENNE LAND TRANSFER.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative of the 
Secretary (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') is hereby 
authorized and directed to transfer by deed to Lame Deer High School 
District No. 6, Rosebud County, Montana (referred to in this section as 
the ``School District''), all right, title, and interest of the United 
States and the Northern Cheyenne Tribe (referred to in this section as 
the ``Tribe'') in and to the lands described in this subsection 
(referred to in this section as ``Subject Lands''), to be held and used 
by the School District for the exclusive purpose of constructing and 
operating thereon a public high school and related facilities. The 
Subject Lands consist of a tract of approximately 40 acres within the 
Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, more particularly described as 
follows:
    A tract of land located in the W\1/2\SE\1/4\ and the E\1/2\SW\1/4\ 
    of section 10, Township 3 South, Range 41 East, M.P.M., described 
    as follows: Beginning at the south \1/4\ corner of said section 10, 
    thence south 89 degrees 56 minutes west 393.31 feet on and along 
    the south line of said section 10 to the true point of beginning, 
    thence south 89 degrees 56 minutes west 500.0 feet on and along 
    said section line, thence north 00 degrees 00 minutes east, 575.0 
    feet, thence north 54 degrees 9 minutes 22 seconds east 2382.26 
    feet, thence south 23 degrees 44 minutes 21 seconds east 622.56 
    feet, thence south 51 degrees 14 minutes 40 seconds west 2177.19 
    feet to the true point of beginning, containing in all 40.0 acres, 
    more or less.
    (b) Deed and Lease.--
        (1) In general.--The deed issued under this section shall 
    provide that--
            (A) title to all coal and other minerals, including oil, 
        gas, and other natural deposits, within the Subject Lands shall 
        remain in the Secretary in trust for the Tribe, as provided in 
        Public Law 90-424 (82 Stat. 424);
            (B) the Subject Lands may be used for the purpose of 
        constructing and operating a public high school and related 
        facilities thereon, and for no other purpose;
            (C) title to the Subject Lands, free and clear of all liens 
        and encumbrances, shall automatically revert to the Secretary 
        in trust for the Tribe, and the deed shall be of no further 
        force or effect, if, within 8 years after the date of the deed, 
        classes have not commenced in a permanent public high school 
        facility established on the Subject Lands, or if such classes 
        commence at the facility within such 8-year period, but the 
        facility subsequently permanently ceases operating as a public 
        high school; and
            (D) at any time after the conclusion of the current 
        litigation (commenced before the date of enactment of this Act 
        and including all trial and, if any, appellate proceedings) 
        challenging the November 9, 1993, decision of the 
        Superintendent of Public Instruction for the State of Montana 
        granting the petition to create the School District, and with 
        the prior approval of the Superintendent of Public Instruction 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Superintendent's 
        Approval''), the Tribe shall have the right to replace the deed 
        with a lease covering the Subject Lands issued under section 
        1(a) of the Act of August 9, 1955 (69 Stat. 539, chapter 615; 
        25 U.S.C. 415(a)) having a term of 25 years, with a right to 
        renew for an additional 25 years.
        (2) Conditions of lease.--Under the lease referred to in 
    paragraph (1)(D), the Subject Lands shall be leased rent free to 
    the School District for the exclusive purpose of constructing and 
    operating a public high school and related facilities thereon. The 
    lease shall terminate if, within 8 years after the date of the 
    deed, classes have not commenced in a permanent public high school 
    facility established on the Subject Lands, or if such classes 
    commence at the facility within such 8-year period, but the 
    facility subsequently permanently ceases operating as a public high 
    school. In the event the Tribe seeks and obtains the 
    Superintendent's Approval, the Tribe may tender a lease, signed by 
    the Tribe and approved by the Secretary, which complies with the 
    provisions of this subsection. Upon such tender, the deed shall be 
    of no further force or effect, and, subject to the leasehold 
    interest offered to the School District, title to the Subject 
    Lands, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, shall 
    automatically revert to the Secretary in trust for the Tribe. The 
    Tribe may at any time irrevocably relinquish the right provided to 
    it under this subsection by resolution of the Northern Cheyenne 
    Tribal Council explicitly so providing.
    (c) Effect of Acceptance of Deed.--Upon the School District's 
acceptance of a deed delivered under this section, the School District, 
and any party who may subsequently acquire any right, title, or 
interest of any kind whatsoever in or to the Subject Lands by or 
through the School District, shall be subject to, be bound by, and 
comply with all terms and conditions set forth in subparagraphs (A) 
through (D) of subsection (b)(1).

SEC. 12. INDIAN AGRICULTURE AMENDMENT.

    (a) Leasing of Indian Agricultural Lands.--Section 105 of the 
American Indian Agriculture Resource Management Act (25 U.S.C. 3715) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (3);
            (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) shall approve leases and permits of tribally owned 
    agricultural lands at rates determined by the tribal governing 
    body.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), amending paragraph (1) to read as 
    follows:
    ``(1) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or 
altering the authority or right of an individual allottee or Indian 
tribe in the legal or beneficial use of his, her, or its own land or to 
enter into an agricultural lease of the surface interest of his, her, 
or its allotment or land under any other provision of law.''.
    (b) Tribal Immunity.--The American Indian Agriculture Resource 
Management Act (25 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 306. TRIBAL IMMUNITY.

    ``Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect, modify, 
diminish, or otherwise impair the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed 
by Indian tribes.''.
  SEC. 13. SAN CARLOS APACHE WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT ACT OF 1992.
    Section 3711(b)(1) of title XXXVII of the San Carlos Apache Tribe 
Water Rights Settlement Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4752) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 1994'' and inserting ``December 31, 1995''.
  SEC. 14. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUY INDIAN ACT AND MENTOR-PROTEGE 
      PROGRAM.
    Section 23 of the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 861; 25 U.S.C. 47; 
commonly referred to as the ``Buy Indian Act''), is amended by adding 
at the end the following: ``Participation in the Mentor-Protege Program 
established under section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2301 note) or receipt of assistance 
pursuant to any developmental assistance agreement authorized under 
such program shall not render Indian labor or Indian industry 
ineligible to receive any assistance authorized under this section. For 
the purposes of this section--
        ``(1) no determination of affiliation or control (either direct 
    or indirect) may be found between a protege firm and its mentor 
    firm on the basis that the mentor firm has agreed to furnish (or 
    has furnished) to its protege firm pursuant to a mentor-protege 
    agreement any form of developmental assistance described in 
    subsection (f) of section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2301 note); and
        ``(2) the terms `protege firm' and `mentor firm' have the 
    meaning given such terms in subsection (c) of such section 831.''.
  SEC. 15. ACQUISITION OF LANDS ON WIND RIVER RESERVATION.
    (a) Authority To Hold Lands in Trust for the Individual Tribe.--The 
Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to acquire individually 
in the name of the United States in trust for the benefit of the 
Eastern Shoshone Tribe of the Wind River Reservation or the Northern 
Arapaho Tribe of the Wind River Reservation, as appropriate, lands or 
other rights when the individual assets of only one of the tribes is 
used to acquire such lands or other rights.
    (b) Lands Remain Part of Joint Reservation Subject to Exclusive 
Tribal Control.--Any lands acquired under subsection (a) within the 
exterior boundaries of the Wind River Reservation shall remain a part 
of the Reservation and subject to the joint tribal laws of the 
Reservation, except that the lands so acquired shall be subject to the 
exclusive use and control of the tribe for which such lands were 
acquired.
    (c) Income.--The income from lands acquired under subsection (a) 
shall be credited to the tribe for which such lands were acquired.
    (d) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to prevent the joint acquisition of lands for the benefit of the 
Eastern Shoshone Tribe of the Wind River Reservation and the Northern 
Arapaho Tribe of the Wind River Reservation.

SEC. 16. ADVANCED TRAINING AND RESEARCH.

    (a) Section 111 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 
U.S.C. 1616d) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``who have worked in an Indian health 
        program (as defined in section 108(a)(2)) for a substantial 
        period of time''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``In 
        selecting participants for a program established under this 
        subsection, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall 
        give priority to applicants who are employed by the Indian 
        Health Service, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban 
        Indian organizations, at the time of the submission of the 
        applications.''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by inserting after ``Indian health 
    program'' the following: ``(as defined in section 108(a)(2))''.
    (b) Nursing Residency Program.--Section 118(b) of such Act (25 
U.S.C. 1616k(b)) is amended by inserting before the period the 
following: ``or a Master's degree''.
  SEC. 17. REDESIGNATION OF YAKIMA INDIAN NATION TO YAKAMA INDIAN 
      NATION.
    (a) Redesignation.--The Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima 
Indian Nation shall be known and designated as the ``Confederated 
Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law (including any regulation), 
map, document, paper, or other record of the United States to 
Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation''.

SEC. 18. EXPENDITURE OF JUDGMENT FUNDS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, or any distribution 
plan approved pursuant to the Indian Tribal Judgment Funds Use or 
Distribution Act (25 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.), the Secretary of the 
Interior may reprogram, in accordance with the letter of Charles Dawes, 
the Chief of the Ottowa Tribe of Oklahoma, to the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, Muskogee Area Office, dated September 21, 1993, and the 
accompanying Resolution that was approved by the Business Committee of 
the Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma August 19, 1993, the specific changes in 
the Secretarial Plan that became effective on June 14, 1983, for the 
use of funds that were awarded in satisfaction of judgments in final 
awards by the Indian Claims Commission for claims with the following 
docket numbers: 133-A, 133-B, 133-C, 302, and 338.

SEC. 19. APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.

    The activities of the Department of the Interior associated with 
the Department's consultation with Indian tribes and organizations 
related to the management of funds held in trust by the United States 
for Indian tribes shall be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee 
Act (5 U.S.C. App.).

SEC. 20. POKAGON POTAWATOMI MEMBERSHIP LIST.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to restore Federal services to the 
Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians'', approved September 21, 1994 
(Public Law 103-323) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating section 9 as section 10; and
        (2) by inserting after section 8 the following new section:

``SEC. 9. MEMBERSHIP LIST.

    ``(a) List of Members as of September 1994.--Not later than 120 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Bands shall submit to 
the Secretary a list of all individuals who, as of September 21, 1994, 
were members of the respective Bands.
    ``(b) List of Individuals Eligible for Membership.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Bands shall submit to the Secretary 
    membership rolls that contain the names of all individuals eligible 
    for membership in such Bands. Each such Band, in consultation with 
    the Secretary, shall determine whether an individual is eligible 
    for membership in the Band on the basis of provisions in the 
    governing documents of the Band that determine the qualifications 
    for inclusion in the membership roll of the Band.
        ``(2) Publication of notice.--At such time as the rolls have 
    been submitted to the Secretary, the Secretary shall immediately 
    publish in the Federal Register a notice of such rolls.
        ``(3) Maintenance of rolls.--The Bands shall ensure that the 
    rolls are maintained and kept current.''.

SEC. 21. ODAWA AND OTTAWA MEMBERSHIP LISTS.

    The Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa and the Little River Band of 
Ottawa Indians Act (Public Law 103-324) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 9. MEMBERSHIP LIST.

    ``(a) List of Present Membership.--Not later than 120 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Band shall submit to the 
Secretary a list of all individuals who, as of September 21, 1994, were 
members of the Band.
    ``(b) List of Individuals Eligible for Membership.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Band shall submit to the Secretary 
    membership rolls that contain the names of all individuals eligible 
    for membership in such Band. The Band, in consultation with the 
    Secretary, shall determine whether an individual is eligible for 
    membership in the Band on the basis of provisions in the governing 
    documents of the Band that determine the qualifications for 
    inclusion in the membership roll of the Band.
        ``(2) Publication of notice.--At such time as the rolls have 
    been submitted to the Secretary, the Secretary shall immediately 
    publish in the Federal Register a notice of such rolls.
        ``(3) Maintenance of rolls.--The Band shall ensure that the 
    rolls are maintained and kept current.''.
  SEC. 22. INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT.
    (a) In General.--The Indian Self-Determination Act is amended--
        (1) in section 107(b)(2) (25 U.S.C. 450k(b)(2)), by striking 
    ``Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs'' and inserting 
    ``Committee on Natural Resources'';
        (2) in section 301 (25 U.S.C. 450f note), by striking ``eight'' 
    and inserting ``18''; and
        (3) in section 302(a) (25 U.S.C. 450f note), by striking ``The 
    Secretaries'' and inserting ``For each fiscal year, the 
    Secretaries''.
    (b) Advisory Committees.--The Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act Amendments of 1990 (title II of Public Law 
101-644) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 204. TRIBAL AND FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including any 
regulation), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services are authorized to jointly establish and fund 
advisory committees or other advisory bodies composed of members of 
Indian tribes or members of Indian tribes and representatives of the 
Federal Government to ensure tribal participation in the implementation 
of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public 
Law 93-638).''.

SEC. 23. CROW BOUNDARY SETTLEMENT.

    Section 6(c) of the Crow Boundary Settlement Act of 1994 is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(c) Investment.--At the request of the Secretary, the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall invest all sums deposited into, accruing to, and 
remaining in, the Crow Tribal Trust Fund in accordance with the first 
section of the Act of February 12, 1929 (45 Stat. 1164, chapter 178, 25 
U.S.C. 161a).''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.