[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4650 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4650

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1995, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, for 
military functions administered by the Department of Defense, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on 
active duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to 
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $20,609,770,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Navy on 
active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere), 
midshipmen, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to section 
156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 
229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $17,569,137,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps 
on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere); 
and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as 
amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to section 229(b) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to the Department of Defense Military 
Retirement Fund; $5,774,871,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, interest on deposits, 
gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses 
thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty 
travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on 
active duty (except members of reserve components provided for 
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), to 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)), and to 
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $17,181,479,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 265, 3021, and 3038 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or 
while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and for 
members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and expenses 
authorized by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$2,161,620,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 265 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active 
duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps, and expenses authorized by section 2131 of 
title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund; $1,401,809,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 265 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or 
while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the 
Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses authorized by section 
2131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; $348,748,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 265, 8021, and 8038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 672(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
678(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and for members of the Air Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and 
expenses authorized by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code; 
and for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$768,834,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under section 265, 3021, or 3496 of title 10 or section 708 of title 
32, United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 672(d) 
of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$3,339,505,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
section 265, 8021, or 8496 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 672(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 678(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 2131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund; 
$1,233,429,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law; and not to 
exceed $14,437,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Army, and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity 
for confidential military purposes; $17,507,088,000 and, in addition, 
$50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National Defense 
Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, That of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph, not less than $388,599,000 shall be made available only 
for conventional ammunition care and maintenance: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, $5,800,000 shall be 
made available only for the removal of equipment and the repair and 
restoration of structures at the National Center for Toxicological 
Research, Jefferson, Arkansas: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
available only for payment to the DOD 50th Anniversary of World War II 
Commemoration Appropriation: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $9,500,000 shall be made available 
only to purchase an easement for use by the Army's Schofield Barracks 
Military Reservation for the purpose of waste water disposal: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding Army Regulation 200-1, the Secretary of 
the Army may obligate not to exceed $2,000,000 through the Army Corps 
of Engineers to contribute to a multi-party remediation effort at the 
Alaska Roundhouse site at Cordova, Alaska: Provided further, That such 
funds may only be obligated to match contributions made by other 
private, State or Municipal authorities to the remediation effort.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law; and not to exceed $4,301,000 can be used for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be made on 
his certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; 
$21,054,470,000 and, in addition, $50,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $45,874,000 shall be made available only for the Pacific Missile 
Range Facility, Hawaii: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $46,300,000 shall be made available 
only for naval shipyard modernization projects to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1996.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law; 
$1,988,215,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law; and 
not to exceed $8,762,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of the Air Force, and payments may be made on his certificate of 
necessity for confidential military purposes; $18,763,427,000 and, in 
addition, $50,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the National 
Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund: Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire all right, title and interest of any party in and 
to two parcels of real property, including improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 27 acres, located near King Salmon Air 
Force Station: Provided further, That this authority may be exercised 
only for the purpose of conducting a response action in accordance with 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act (42 U.S.C. 9601-9675) and the Air Force Installation Restoration 
Program.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law; 
$10,500,104,000, of which not to exceed $25,000,000 may be available 
for the CINC initiative fund account; and of which not to exceed 
$23,768,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to 
be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of Defense, 
and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes: Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be made available 
only for the repair and maintenance of federally owned education 
facilities located on military installations.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $1,243,209,000: Provided, That the 
Undersecretary of Defense for Policy, shall, not later than October 15, 
1994, transmit, in unclassified and classified forms, the Rand 
Corporation Study, published on or about December 1993, on The United 
States Role in Possible Middle East Peace Settlements to the 
congressional defense, intelligence and foreign affairs committees.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $831,219,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $81,862,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications; $1,471,505,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized 
by law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft); $2,440,288,000: Provided, 
That of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, $10,000,000 shall be 
made available only for a National Guard Outreach Program in the Los 
Angeles School District.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For operation and maintenance of the Air National Guard, including 
medical and hospital treatment and related expenses in non-Federal 
hospitals; maintenance, operation, repair, and other necessary expenses 
of facilities for the training and administration of the Air National 
Guard, including repair of facilities, maintenance, operation, and 
modification of aircraft; transportation of things; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; supplies, materials, and equipment, as authorized by 
law for the Air National Guard; and expenses incident to the 
maintenance and use of supplies, materials, and equipment, including 
such as may be furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of 
the Department of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the 
same basis as authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on 
active Federal duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting 
units in compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when 
specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau; 
$2,772,928,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, $9,200,000 shall be made available only for the operation of 
Air National Guard C-130 operational support aircraft of the 159th Air 
National Guard Fighter Group, the 146th Airlift Wing, and the South 
Carolina Air National Guard 169th Fighter Group unit.

        National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice, Army

    For the necessary expenses and personnel services (other than pay 
and non-travel-related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the national 
matches) in accordance with law, for operation and maintenance of rifle 
ranges; the instruction of citizens in marksmanship; the promotion of 
rifle practice; the conduct of the national matches; the sale of 
ammunition under the authority of title 10, United States Code, 
sections 4308 and 4311; the travel of rifle teams, military personnel, 
and individuals attending regional, national, and international 
competitions; and the payment to competitors at national matches under 
section 4312 of title 10, United States Code, of subsistence and travel 
allowances under section 4313 of title 10, United States Code; not to 
exceed $2,544,000.

                   Court of Military Appeals, Defense

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Military Appeals; $6,126,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 can be used 
for official representation purposes.

                   Environmental Restoration, Defense


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of Defense; $1,780,200,000, to remain available 
until transferred: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes 
(including programs and operations at sites formerly used by the 
Department of Defense), transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of Defense as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriations of funds to which transferred: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from 
this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, 
such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                            Summer Olympics

    For logistical support and personnel services (other than pay and 
non-travel-related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the 1996 Games 
of the XXVI Olympiad and the X Paralympiad to be held in Atlanta, 
Georgia) provided by any component of the Department of Defense to the 
1996 Games of the XXVI Olympiad and the X Paralympiad; $14,400,000: 
Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1997.

                   1995 Special Olympics World Games

    For logistical support and personnel services (other than pay and 
non-travel-related allowances of members of the Armed Forces of the 
United States, except for members of the reserve components thereof 
called or ordered to active duty to provide support for the 1995 
Special Olympics World Games to be held in New Haven, Connecticut) 
provided by any component of the Department of Defense to the 1995 
Special Olympics World Games; $3,000,000.

                        Humanitarian Assistance

    For transportation for humanitarian relief for the people of 
Afghanistan, the Kurdish population and other minorities of northern 
Iraq, and the people of sub-Saharan Africa, acquisition and shipment of 
transportation assets to assist in the distribution of such relief, and 
for transportation and distribution of humanitarian relief supplies, 
and excess non-lethal property; $65,000,000 of which $10,000,000 shall 
be made available only for activities to support the clearing of 
landmines for humanitarian purposes.

                  Former Soviet Union Threat Reduction

    For assistance to the republics of the former Soviet Union, 
including assistance provided by contract or by grants, for 
facilitating the elimination and the safe and secure transportation and 
storage of nuclear, chemical and other weapons; for providing 
incentives for demilitarization; for establishing programs to prevent 
the proliferation of weapons, weapons components, and weapon-related 
technology and expertise; for programs relating to the training and 
support of defense and military personnel for demilitarization and 
protection of weapons, weapons components and weapons technology and 
expertise; for supporting the demilitarization of military technologies 
and production infrastructure; $400,000,000 to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$10,000,000 shall be made available only for the continuing study, 
assessment, and identification of nuclear waste disposal by the former 
Soviet Union in the Arctic and North Pacific regions.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $1,063,164,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1997: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army will 
report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on the 
concept, organization, requirements, and mission need documents for the 
High Capacity Air Ambulance, utilizing low cost fixed wing aircraft, no 
later than April 15, 1995.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes; $813,795,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1997.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes; 
$1,151,914,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1997.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854, title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes; $1,181,221,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997: Provided, That of the amounts 
appropriated for the ARMS program in ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army, 
1993/1995'', $43,000,000 may be available to fund subsidy costs of loan 
guarantees authorized to be made under that program.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and nontracked combat vehicles; 
communications and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare 
parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes; 
$2,673,148,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1997.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public 
and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; $4,627,645,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1997.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and related 
support equipment including spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; $2,159,080,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1997: Provided, That, in addition to 
the foregoing purposes, funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available to liquidate deficiencies in appropriations provided under 
this heading in prior Department of Defense appropriations Acts without 
regard to any provision of law limiting or restricting amounts which 
may be charged to currently available appropriations with respect to 
funds provided in prior appropriations Acts.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854, title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes; $417,779,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and 
armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and 
installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of 
critical, long leadtime components and designs for vessels to be 
constructed or converted in the future; and expansion of public and 
private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title, as follows:
        Carrier replacement program, $2,284,925,000;
        CVN Refuelings, $38,328,000;
        DDG-51 destroyer program, $2,660,690,000;
        LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $50,000,000: Provided, 
    That such funds shall not be obligated or expended until such time 
    that there are sufficient funds made available for the LHD ship 
    program to execute an existing contract option or any extension 
    thereto for LHD-7: Provided further, That such funds shall not be 
    transferred, reprogrammed, or used for any purpose other than the 
    LHD ship program: Provided further, That such funds shall remain 
    available for obligation until expended: Provided further, That the 
    Secretary of the Navy shall extend this existing contract option 
    for the LHD-7 ship for not less than one year and shall negotiate 
    any change in option price made necessary by such extension;
        Nuclear submarine main steam condenser industrial base, 
    $1,000,000;
        For craft, outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first 
    destination transportation, $377,521,000;
In all: $5,412,464,000, and, in addition, $1,200,000,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from the National Defense Sealift Fund for 
additional funding for the Carrier replacement program, all to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 1999: Provided, That 
additional obligations may be incurred after September 30, 1999, for 
engineering services, tests, evaluations, and other such budgeted work 
that must be performed in the final stage of ship construction: 
Provided further, That none of the funds herein provided for the 
construction or conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed in 
shipyards in the United States shall be expended in foreign facilities 
for the construction of major components of such vessel: Provided 
further, That none of the funds herein provided shall be used for the 
construction of any naval vessel in foreign shipyards.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except 
ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for 
conversion); the purchase of not to exceed 262 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which 162 shall be for replacement only; expansion of 
public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; $3,329,171,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1997: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $23,900,000 shall be made available 
only for the Pacific Missile Range Facility, Hawaii.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles 
for the Marine Corps, including the purchase of not to exceed 103 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public 
and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands 
and interests therein, may be acquired and construction prosecuted 
thereon prior to approval of title; $422,410,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 1997.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things; $6,379,962,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997: Provided, That the Department of 
the Air Force shall initiate procurement of non-developmental airlift 
aircraft no later than September 30, 1995.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and 
accessories therefor, ground handling equipment, and training devices; 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of things; 
$3,650,262,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1997.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities authorized by section 2854, title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes; $288,401,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of not to exceed 678 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public 
and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation thereof 
in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for 
the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; $6,965,201,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1997.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments) necessary for 
procurement, production, and modification of equipment, supplies, 
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the 
purchase of not to exceed 437 passenger motor vehicles, of which 431 
shall be for replacement only; expansion of public and private plants, 
equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, erection of 
structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; $2,088,230,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1997.

                  National Guard and Reserve Equipment

    For procurement of aircraft, missiles, tracked combat vehicles, 
ammunition, other weapons, and other procurement for the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces; $800,000,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 1997.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law; $5,521,413,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law; $8,796,168,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996: Provided, That for continued research and 
development programs at the National Center for Physical Acoustics, 
centering on ocean acoustics as it applies to advanced antisubmarine 
warfare acoustics issues with focus on ocean bottom acoustics, seismic 
coupling, sea-surface and bottom scattering, oceanic ambient noise, 
acoustically active surfaces, machinery noise, propagation physics, 
solid state acoustics, electrorheological fluids, transducer 
development, ultrasonic sensors, and other such projects as may be 
agreed upon, $1,000,000 shall be made available, as a grant, to the 
Mississippi Resource Development Corporation, of which not to exceed 
$250,000 of such sum may be used to provide special equipment as may be 
required for particular projects: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated in this paragraph may be obligated or expended to 
develop or purchase equipment for an Aegis destroyer variant (commonly 
known as ``Flight IIA'') whose initial operating capability is budgeted 
to be achieved prior to the initial operating capability of the Ship 
Self-Defense program, nor to develop sensor, processor, or display 
capabilities which duplicate in any way those being developed in the 
Ship Self-Defense program: Provided further, That funds appropriated in 
this paragraph for development of the LPD-17 ship may not be obligated 
unless the baseline design of the ship includes cooperative engagement 
capability and sufficient own-ship self-defense capability against 
advanced sea-skimming antiship cruise missiles in the baseline design 
to achieve an estimated probability of survival from attack by such 
missiles at a level no less than any other Navy ship.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law; $12,202,572,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996: Provided, That not less than $12,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available only 
for the Joint Seismic Program and Global Seismic Network administrated 
by the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology: Provided 
further, That not less than $20,000,000 of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be made available only for the National Center for 
Manufacturing Sciences: Provided further, That not less than 
$13,000,000 of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be made 
available only to continue the establishment and operation of an image 
information processing center supporting the Air Force Maui Space 
Surveillance Site.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments), necessary for basic and 
applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced 
research projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary 
of Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment, as authorized by law; 
$9,099,387,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
1996: Provided, That not less than $75,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available only for the 
Sea-Based Wide Area Defense (Navy Upper-Tier) program: Provided 
further, That $50,000,000 shall be made available only to cover the 
costs (as defined in section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5))) of loan guarantees issued pursuant to 
subsection (b)(3) of such section: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph, $15,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
Department of Energy to address environmental restoration and 
management needs through the Center for Bioenvironmental Research: 
Provided further, That not less than $20,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available only for an 
Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCOR) in the 
Department of Defense which shall include all states eligible as of the 
date of enactment of this Act for the National Science Foundation 
Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.

               Developmental Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, of independent activities 
of the Director, Test and Evaluation in the direction and supervision 
of developmental test and evaluation, including performance and joint 
developmental testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in 
connection therewith; $238,003,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1996.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation 
in the direction and supervision of operational test and evaluation, 
including initial operational test and evaluation which is conducted 
prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint operational 
testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection 
therewith; $12,501,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 1996.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                    Defense Business Operations Fund

    For the Defense Business Operations Fund; $945,238,000.

                     National Defense Sealift Fund


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For National Defense Sealift Fund programs, projects, and 
activities, $724,400,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That $25,000,000 shall be transferred to the Secretary of 
Transportation for title XI loan guarantees: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this paragraph shall be used to award a 
new contract that provides for the acquisition of any of the following 
major components unless such components are manufactured in the United 
States: auxiliary equipment, including pumps, for all ship-board 
services; propulsion system components (that is; engines, reduction 
gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; and spreaders for shipboard 
cranes: Provided further, That the exercise of an option in a contract 
awarded through the obligation of previously appropriated funds shall 
not be considered to be the award of a new contract: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the military department responsible for such 
procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate, that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $43,000,000 may be used for the purchase or construction of 
vessels for the Ready Reserve Force component of the National Defense 
Reserve Fleet, as established by section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales 
Act of 1946 (50 U.S.C. App. 1744): Provided further, That $110,000,000 
may be used for the acquisition and conversion of one maritime 
prepositioning ship for use by the Marine Corps MPS Enhancement 
Program, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, that such 
conversion shall be performed in a United States shipyard.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense, as authorized by law; 
$9,930,759,000, of which $9,601,170,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, of which $329,589,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 1997, shall be for Procurement: Provided, That the 
Department shall continue to competitively contract during fiscal year 
1995 for mail service pharmacy for at least two multi-state regions in 
addition to the ongoing solicitations for Florida, South Carolina, 
Georgia, Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Hawaii, as well as 
each base closure area not supported by an at-risk managed care plan; 
that such services shall be procured independent of any other 
Department managed care contracts; that one multi-state region shall 
include the State of Kentucky and that one multi-state region shall 
include the State of New Mexico: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available 
only for nursing research: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, $14,500,000 shall be made available 
for obtaining emergency communications services for members of the 
Armed Forces and their families from the American National Red Cross as 
authorized by law: Provided further, That until the end of September 
30, 1995, the Secretary of the Air Force shall, through contract or 
otherwise, continue to provide health care in the base hospital at 
Plattsburgh Air Force Base, New York, to persons entitled to health 
care in facilities of the uniformed services: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, not more than $3,400,000 
shall be made available to permit private sector or non-Federal 
physicians, who have used and will use the antibacterial treatment 
method based upon the excretion of dead and decaying spherical 
bacteria, to work in conjunction with the Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center on a treatment protocol and related studies for Desert Storm 
Syndrome-affected veterans.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents 
and munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $575,449,000, of which $355,784,000 shall be 
for Operation and maintenance, $198,965,000 shall be for Procurement to 
remain available until September 30, 1997, and $20,700,000 shall be for 
Research, development, test and evaluation to remain available until 
Septem- Pber 30, 1996.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense


                      (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
Operation and maintenance; for Procurement; and for Research, 
development, test and evaluation; $721,266,000, of which $10,000,000 is 
hereby transferred to the ``Military Construction, Navy'' appropriation 
for construction of a Relocatable Over-the-Horizon Radar in Puerto 
Rico: Provided, That section 9136 of Public Law 102-396 is amended by 
adding the words ``purchasing or'' before the word ``leasing'' and by 
changing the designation ``T-47'' to ``OT-47B'': Provided further, That 
the funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be available for 
obligation for the same time period and for the same purpose as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this paragraph is in addition to any transfer 
authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended; $140,872,000, of which $139,872,000 shall be for Operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $400,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on his 
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; and of 
which $1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997, shall 
be for Procurement.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain proper funding level for continuing 
the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System; $198,000,000.

                 National Security Education Trust Fund

    For the purposes of title VIII of Public Law 102-183, $8,500,000 to 
be derived from the National Security Education Trust Fund, to remain 
available until expended.

                      Community Management Account

    For necessary expenses of the Community Management Account; 
$92,684,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph, no more than $2,000,000 may be available for the purchase of 
information system upgrades at the Department of State Bureau of 
Intelligence and Research.

     Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and Environmental 
                         Restoration Trust Fund

    For payment to the Kaho'olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, and 
Environmental Restoration Trust Fund, as authorized by law, $50,000,000 
to remain available until expended.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8002. During the current fiscal year, provisions of law 
prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any 
person not a citizen of the United States shall not apply to personnel 
of the Department of Defense: Provided, That salary increases granted 
to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees of the 
Department of Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in 
excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host 
nation to its own employees, whichever is higher: Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to Department of Defense foreign 
service national employees serving at United States diplomatic missions 
whose pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980: Provided further, That the limitations of this provision 
shall not apply to foreign national employees of the Department of 
Defense in the Republic of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004. No more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in this 
Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year 
shall be obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year: 
Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations for support 
of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training 
of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, or the National Board for the 
Promotion of Rifle Practice, Army.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8005. Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such 
action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the approval 
of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
$2,000,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of Defense or 
funds made available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
military functions (except military construction) between such 
appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged with 
and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, 
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than those 
for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
which funds are requested has been denied by Congress: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Congress 
promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority or any other 
authority in this Act.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8006. During the current fiscal year, cash balances in working 
capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant to 
section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in only 
such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be 
made from such funds: Provided, That transfers may be made between such 
funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'' and 
``Operation and Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the 
Office of Management and Budget, except that such transfers may not be 
made unless the Secretary of Defense has notified the Congress of the 
proposed transfer. Except in amounts equal to the amounts appropriated 
to working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may be made 
against a working capital fund to procure or increase the value of war 
reserve material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has 
notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8007. Using funds available by this Act or any other Act, the 
Secretary of the Air Force, pursuant to a determination under section 
2690 of title 10, United States Code, may implement cost-effective 
agreements for required heating facility modernization in the 
Kaiserslautern Military Community in the Federal Republic of Germany: 
Provided, That in the City of Kaiserslautern such agreements will 
include the use of United States anthracite as the base load energy for 
municipal district heat to the United States Defense installations: 
Provided further, That at Landstuhl Army Regional Medical Center and 
Ramstein Air Base, furnished heat may be obtained from private, 
regional or municipal services, if provisions are included for the 
consideration of United States coal as an energy source.
    Sec. 8008. Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used to 
initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 
calendar days in session in advance to the Committees on Appropriations 
and Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8009. None of the funds contained in this Act available for 
the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services shall 
be available for payments to physicians and other authorized individual 
health care providers in excess of the amounts allowed in fiscal year 
1994 for similar services, except that: (a) for services for which the 
Secretary of Defense determines an increase is justified by economic 
circumstances, the allowable amounts may be increased in accordance 
with appropriate economic index data similar to that used pursuant to 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act; and (b) for services the 
Secretary determines are overpriced based on allowable payments under 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act, the allowable amounts shall be 
reduced by not more than 15 percent (except that the reduction may be 
waived if the Secretary determines that it would impair adequate access 
to health care services for beneficiaries). The Secretary shall solicit 
public comment prior to promulgating regulations to implement this 
section. Such regulations shall include a limitation, similar to that 
used under title XVIII of the Social Security Act, on the extent to 
which a provider may bill a beneficiary an actual charge in excess of 
the allowable amount.
    Sec. 8010. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available to initiate (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic 
order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of 
the contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in 
excess of $20,000,000, or (2) a contract for advance procurement 
leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity 
procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
Committees on Appropriations and Armed Services of the Senate and House 
of Representatives have been notified at least thirty days in advance 
of the proposed contract award: Provided, That no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to initiate a 
multiyear contract for which the economic order quantity advance 
procurement is not funded at least to the limits of the Government's 
liability: Provided further, That no part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be available to initiate multiyear 
procurement contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value 
of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That no multiyear procurement 
contract can be terminated without 10-day prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations and Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate: Provided further, That the execution of 
multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value analysis 
to determine lowest cost compared to an annual procurement.
    Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used for 
multiyear procurement contracts as follows:
        MK19-3 grenade machine guns;
        M16A2 rifles;
        M249 Squad Automatic Weapons;
        M4 carbine rifles.
    Sec. 8011. Within the funds appropriated for the operation and 
maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant 
to section 401 of title 10, United States Code, for humanitarian and 
civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code. Such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic 
assistance costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United 
States Code, and these obligations shall be reported to Congress on 
September 30 of each year: Provided, That funds available for operation 
and maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian and 
similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the Trust Territories 
of the Pacific Islands and freely associated states of Micronesia, 
pursuant to the Compact of Free Association as authorized by Public Law 
99-239: Provided further, That upon a determination by the Secretary of 
the Army that such action is beneficial for graduate medical education 
programs conducted at Army medical facilities located in Hawaii, the 
Secretary of the Army may authorize the provision of medical services 
at such facilities and transportation to such facilities, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, for civilian patients from American Samoa, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the 
Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8012. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a qualified 
Indian Tribal corporation or Alaska Native Corporation furnishing the 
product of a responsible small business concern shall not be denied the 
opportunity to compete for and be awarded a procurement contract 
pursuant to section 2323 of title 10, United States Code, solely 
because the Indian Tribal corporation or Alaska Native Corporation is 
not the actual manufacturer or processor of the product to be supplied 
under the contract.
    Sec. 8013. (a) The provisions of section 115(a)(4) of title 10, 
United States Code, shall not apply with respect to fiscal year 1995 or 
with respect to the appropriation of funds for that year.
    (b) During fiscal year 1995, the civilian personnel of the 
Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis of any end-
strength, and the management of such personnel during that fiscal year 
shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known as an end-
strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed on the 
last day of such fiscal year.
    (c) The fiscal year 1996 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1996 Department of Defense budget request 
shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) 
and (b) of this provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 
1996.
    Sec. 8013A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available by this Act shall be used by the Department of 
Defense to exceed, outside the fifty United States, its territories, 
and the District of Columbia, 125,000 civilian workyears: Provided, 
That workyears shall be applied as defined in the Federal Personnel 
Manual: Provided further, That workyears expended in dependent student 
hiring programs for disadvantaged youths shall not be included in this 
workyear limitation.
    Sec. 8014. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional 
action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8015. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
obligated for the pay of any individual who is initially employed after 
the date of enactment of this Act as a technician in the administration 
and training of the Army Reserve and the maintenance and repair of 
supplies issued to the Army Reserve unless such individual is also a 
military member of the Army Reserve troop program unit that he or she 
is employed to support. Those technicians employed by the Army Reserve 
in areas other than Army Reserve troop program units need only be 
members of the Selected Reserve.
    Sec. 8016. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretaries of the Army and Air Force may authorize the retention in an 
active status until age sixty of any person who would otherwise be 
removed from an active status and who is employed as a National Guard 
or Reserve technician in a position in which active status in a reserve 
component of the Army or Air Force is required as a condition of that 
employment.
    Sec. 8017. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year and hereafter, proceeds from the investment of the 
Fisher House Investment Trust Fund will be used to support the 
operation and maintenance of Fisher Houses associated with Army medical 
treatment facilities.
    Sec. 8018. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used to make contributions to the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund pursuant to section 2006(g) of title 10, United States 
Code, representing the normal cost for future benefits under section 
1415(c) of title 38, United States Code, for any member of the armed 
services who, on or after the date of enactment of this Act--
        (1) enlists in the armed services for a period of active duty 
    of less than three years; or
        (2) receives an enlistment bonus under section 308a or 308f of 
    title 37, United States Code,
nor shall any amounts representing the normal cost of such future 
benefits be transferred from the Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 2006(d) of 
title 10, United States Code; nor shall the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs pay such benefits to any such member: Provided, That, in the 
case of a member covered by clause (1), these limitations shall not 
apply to members in combat arms skills or to members who enlist in the 
armed services on or after July 1, 1989, under a program continued or 
established by the Secretary of Defense in fiscal year 1991 to test the 
cost-effective use of special recruiting incentives involving not more 
than nineteen noncombat arms skills approved in advance by the 
Secretary of Defense: Provided further, That this subsection applies 
only to active components of the Army.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available 
for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army 
participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
completion of a service commitment: Provided, That this subsection 
shall not apply to those members who have reenlisted with this option 
prior to October 1, 1987: Provided further, That this subsection 
applies only to active components of the Army.
    Sec. 8019. Funds appropriated in this Act shall be available for 
the payment of not more than 75 percent of the charges of a 
postsecondary educational institution for the tuition or expenses of an 
officer in the Ready Reserve of the Army National Guard or Army Reserve 
for education or training during his off-duty periods, except that no 
part of the charges may be paid unless the officer agrees to remain a 
member of the Ready Reserve for at least four years after completion of 
such training or education.
    Sec. 8020. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function 
of the Department of Defense that, on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act, is performed by more than ten Department of Defense civilian 
employees until a most efficient and cost-effective organization 
analysis is completed on such activity or function and certification of 
the analysis is made to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided, That this section shall 
not apply to a commercial or industrial type function of the Department 
of Defense that: (1) is included on the procurement list established 
pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 25, 1938 (41 U.S.C. 47), 
popularly referred to as the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act; (2) is planned to 
be converted to performance by a qualified nonprofit agency for the 
blind or by a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped 
individuals in accordance with that Act; or (3) is planned to be 
converted to performance by a qualified firm under 51 percent Native 
American ownership.
    Sec. 8021. All new Department of Defense procurements shall 
separately identify software costs in the work breakdown structure 
defined by MIL-STD-881 in those instances where software is considered 
to be a major category of cost.
    Sec. 8021A. Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred 
to any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose 
of implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance 
agreement pursuant to section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2301 note), as 
amended, under the authority of this provision or any other transfer 
authority contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8022. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Navy may use funds appropriated to charter ships to be 
used as auxiliary minesweepers providing that the owner agrees that 
these ships may be activated as Navy Reserve ships with Navy Reserve 
crews used in training exercises conducted in accordance with law and 
policies governing Naval Reserve forces.
    Sec. 8023. Funds appropriated or made available in this Act shall 
be obligated and expended to continue to fully utilize the facilities 
at the United States Army Engineer's Waterways Experiment Station, 
including the continued availability of the supercomputer capability: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act may be used to purchase 
any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the United States, 
unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the Armed Services and 
Appropriations Committees of Congress that such an acquisition must be 
made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes that 
is not available from United States manufacturers.
    Sec. 8024. For the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177) as amended by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 
(Public Law 100-119) and by the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public 
Law 101-508), the term program, project, and activity for 
appropriations contained in this Act shall be defined as the most 
specific level of budget items identified in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1995, the accompanying House and Senate Committee 
reports, the conference report and accompanying joint explanatory 
statement of the managers of the Committee of Conference, the related 
classified annexes and reports, and the P-1 and R-1 budget 
justification documents as subsequently modified by Congressional 
action: Provided, That the following exception to the above definition 
shall apply:
    For the Military Personnel and the Operation and Maintenance 
accounts, the term ``program, project, and activity'' is defined as the 
appropriations accounts contained in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act: Provided further, That at the time the President 
submits his budget for fiscal year 1996, the Department of Defense 
shall transmit to the Committees on Appropriations and the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
budget justification document to be known as the ``O-1'' which shall 
identify, at the budget activity, activity group, and subactivity group 
level, the amounts requested by the President to be appropriated to the 
Department of Defense for operation and maintenance in any budget 
request, or amended budget request, for fiscal year 1996.
    Sec. 8025. Of the funds appropriated to the Army, $203,736,000 
shall be available only for the Reserve Component Automation System 
(RCAS): Provided, That none of these funds can be expended--
        (1) except as approved by the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau;
        (2) unless RCAS resource management functions are performed by 
    the National Guard Bureau;
        (3) to pay the salary of an RCAS program manager who has not 
    been selected and approved by the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau and chartered by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and 
    the Secretary of the Army;
        (4) unless the Program Manager (PM) charter makes the PM 
    accountable to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and fully 
    defines his authority, responsibility, reporting channels and 
    organizational structure;
        (5) to pay the salaries of individuals assigned to the RCAS 
    program management office unless such organization is comprised of 
    personnel chosen jointly by the Chiefs of the National Guard Bureau 
    and the Army Reserve;
        (6) to pay contracted costs for the acquisition of RCAS unless 
    RCAS is an integrated system consisting of software, hardware, and 
    communications equipment and unless such contract continues to 
    preclude the use of Government furnished equipment, operating 
    systems, and executive applications software; and
        (7) unless RCAS performs its own classified information 
    processing:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds appropriated shall be available for procurement of 
computers for the Army Reserve Component which are used to network or 
expand the capabilities of existing or future information systems or 
duplicate functions to be provided under the RCAS contract unless the 
procurement meets the following criteria: (A) at sites scheduled to 
receive RCAS equipment prior to September 30, 1995, RCAS ADP equipment 
may be procured and only in the numbers and types allocated by the RCAS 
program to each site; and at sites scheduled to receive RCAS equipment 
after September 30, 1995, RCAS ADP equipment or ADP equipment from a 
list of RCAS compatible equipment approved by the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau or his designee, may be procured and only in the numbers 
and types allocated by the RCAS program to each site; (B) the 
requesting organizational element has insufficient ADP equipment to 
perform administrative functions but not to exceed the number of work 
stations determined by the RCAS program for that site; (C) replacement 
equipment will not exceed the minimum required to maintain the 
reliability of existing capabilities; (D) replacement will be justified 
on the basis of cost and feasibility of repairs and maintenance of 
present ADP equipment as compared to the cost of replacement; and (E) 
the procurement under this policy must be approved by the Chief of the 
National Guard Bureau or his designee, provided that the procurement is 
a one for one replacement action of existing equipment.
    Sec. 8025A. Of the funds made available by this Act in title III, 
Procurement, $8,000,000, drawn pro rata from each appropriations 
account in title III, shall be available for incentive payments 
authorized by section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974, 25 
U.S.C. 1544. These payments shall be available only to contractors 
which have submitted subcontracting plans pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 637(d), 
and according to regulations which shall be promulgated by the 
Secretary of Defense within 90 days of the passage of this Act.
    Sec. 8026. None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
purchase by the Department of Defense (and its departments and 
agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain 4 inches in 
diameter and under unless the anchor and mooring chain are manufactured 
in the United States from components which are substantially 
manufactured in the United States: Provided, That for the purpose of 
this section manufactured will include cutting, heat treating, quality 
control, testing of chain and welding (including the forging and shot 
blasting process): Provided further, That for the purpose of this 
section substantially all of the components of anchor and mooring chain 
shall be considered to be produced or manufactured in the United States 
if the aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured in the 
United States exceeds the aggregate cost of the components produced or 
manufactured outside the United States: Provided further, That when 
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet Department of 
Defense requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of the service 
responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-
by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8026A. During the current fiscal year, none of the funds 
available to the Department of Defense may be used to procure or 
acquire (1) defensive handguns or defensive handgun ammunition unless 
such handguns or handgun ammunition are the M9 9mm Department of 
Defense standard handgun or ammunition for such handguns, or (2) 
offensive handguns and ammunition except for the Special Operations 
Forces: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply to handguns and 
ammunition for marksmanship competitions.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8027. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Defense may transfer prior year, unobligated balances and 
funds appropriated in this Act to the operation and maintenance 
appropriations for the purpose of providing military technician and 
Department of Defense medical personnel pay and medical programs 
(including CHAMPUS) the same exemption from sequestration set forth in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99-177) as amended by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-119) and by the 
Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508) as that granted the 
other military personnel accounts: Provided, That any transfer made 
pursuant to any use of the authority provided by this provision shall 
be limited so that the amounts reprogrammed to the operation and 
maintenance appropriations do not exceed the amounts sequestered under 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99-177) as amended by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-119) and by the 
Budget Enforcement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508): Provided further, 
That the authority to make transfers pursuant to this section is in 
addition to the authority to make transfers under other provisions of 
this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may proceed 
with such transfer after notifying the Appropriations Committees of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate twenty calendar days in session 
before any such transfer of funds under this provision.
    Sec. 8028. None of the funds available to the Department of the 
Navy may be used to enter into any contract for the overhaul, repair, 
or maintenance of any naval vessel homeported on the West Coast of the 
United States which includes charges for interport differential as an 
evaluation factor for award.
    Sec. 8029. None of the funds appropriated by this Act available for 
the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services 
(CHAMPUS) shall be available for the reimbursement of any health care 
provider for inpatient mental health service for care received when a 
patient is referred to a provider of inpatient mental health care or 
residential treatment care by a medical or health care professional 
having an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is 
referred: Provided, That this limitation does not apply in the case of 
inpatient mental health services provided under the program for the 
handicapped under subsection (d) of section 1079 of title 10, United 
States Code, provided as partial hospital care, or provided pursuant to 
a waiver authorized by the Secretary of Defense because of medical or 
psychological circumstances of the patient that are confirmed by a 
health professional who is not a Federal employee after a review, 
pursuant to rules prescribed by the Secretary, which takes into account 
the appropriate level of care for the patient, the intensity of 
services required by the patient, and the availability of that care.
    Sec. 8030. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be used to purchase, install, 
replace, or otherwise repair any lock on a safe or security container 
which protects information critical to national security or any other 
classified materials and which has not been certified as passing the 
security lock specifications contained in regulation FF-L-2740 dated 
October 12, 1989, and has not passed all testing criteria and 
procedures established through February 28, 1992: Provided, That the 
Director of Central Intelligence may waive this provision, on a case-
by-case basis only, upon certification that the above cited locks are 
not adequate for the protection of sensitive intelligence information.
    Sec. 8031. Funds available in this Act may be used to provide 
transportation for the next-of-kin of individuals who have been 
prisoners of war or missing in action from the Vietnam era to an annual 
meeting in the United States, under such regulations as the Secretary 
of Defense may prescribe.
    Sec. 8032. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
available to the Department of Defense shall be made available to 
provide transportation of medical supplies and equipment, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, to American Samoa: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds available to the 
Department of Defense shall be made available to provide transportation 
of medical supplies and equipment, on a nonreimbursable basis, to the 
Indian Health Service when it is in conjunction with a civil-military 
project.
    Sec. 8033. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may, by Executive 
Agreement, establish with host nation governments in NATO member states 
a separate account into which such residual value amounts negotiated in 
the return of United States military installations in NATO member 
states may be deposited, in the currency of the host nation, in lieu of 
direct monetary transfers to the United States Treasury: Provided, That 
such credits may be utilized only for the construction of facilities to 
support United States military forces in that host nation, or such real 
property maintenance and base operating costs that are currently 
executed through monetary transfers to such host nations: Provided 
further, That the Department of Defense's budget submission for fiscal 
year 1996 shall identify such sums anticipated in residual value 
settlements, and identify such construction, real property maintenance 
or base operating costs that shall be funded by the host nation through 
such credits: Provided further, That all military construction projects 
to be executed from such accounts must be previously approved in a 
prior Act of Congress: Provided further, That each such Executive 
Agreement with a NATO member host nation shall be reported to the 
Committees on Appropriations and Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate thirty days prior to the conclusion and 
endorsement of any such agreement established under this provision.
    Sec. 8034. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
in this Act shall be used to demilitarize or dispose of more than 
310,784 unserviceable M1 Garand rifles and M1 Carbines.
    Sec. 8035. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to pay more than 50 
percent of an amount paid to any person under section 308 of title 37, 
United States Code, in a lump sum.
    Sec. 8036. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Defense to assign a supervisor's title or grade 
when the number of people he or she supervises is considered as a basis 
for this determination: Provided, That savings that result from this 
provision are represented as such in future budget proposals.
    Sec. 8037. Of the funds appropriated by this Act, no more than 
$18,500,000 shall be available for the mental health care demonstration 
project at Fort Bragg, North Carolina: Provided, That adjustments may 
be made for normal and reasonable price and program growth.
    Sec. 8038. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for payments under the Department of Defense contract with 
the Louisiana State University Medical Center involving the use of cats 
for Brain Missile Wound Research, and the Department of Defense shall 
not make payments under such contract from funds obligated prior to the 
date of the enactment of this Act, except as necessary for costs 
incurred by the contractor prior to the enactment of this Act: 
Provided, That funds necessary for the care of animals covered by this 
contract are allowed.
    Sec. 8039. None of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act 
shall be available to conduct bone trauma research at any Army Research 
Laboratory until the Secretary of the Army certifies that the synthetic 
compound to be used in the experiments is of such a type that its use 
will result in a significant medical finding, the research has military 
application, the research will be conducted in accordance with the 
standards set by an animal care and use committee, and the research 
does not duplicate research already conducted by a manufacturer or any 
other research organization.
    Sec. 8040. The Secretary of Defense shall include in any base 
closure and realignment plan submitted to Congress after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a complete review for the five-year period 
beginning on October 1, 1994, which shall include expected force 
structure and levels for such period, expected installation 
requirements for such period, a budget plan for such period, the cost 
savings expected to be realized through realignments and closures of 
military installations during such period, an economics model to 
identify the critical local economic sectors affected by proposed 
closures and realignments of military installations and an assessment 
of the economic impact in each area in which a military installation is 
to be realigned or closed.
    Sec. 8041. No more than $50,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used for any single relocation of an 
organization, unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense 
into or within the National Capital Region: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate that such a relocation is required 
in the best interest of the Government: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated or made available in this Act shall be used for the 
relocation into the National Capital Region of the Air Force Office of 
Medical Support located at Brooks Air Force Base.
    Sec. 8041A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
contract awarded by the Department of Defense in fiscal year 1995 for 
construction or service performed in whole or in part in a State which 
is not contiguous with another State and has an unemployment rate in 
excess of the national average rate of unemployment as determined by 
the Secretary of Labor shall include a provision requiring the 
contractor to employ, for the purpose of performing that portion of the 
contract in such State that is not contiguous with another State, 
individuals who are residents of such State and who, in the case of any 
craft or trade, possess or would be able to acquire promptly the 
necessary skills: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive the 
requirements of this section in the interest of national security.
    Sec. 8042. During the current fiscal year, funds appropriated or 
otherwise available for any Federal agency, the Congress, the judicial 
branch, or the District of Columbia may be used for the pay, 
allowances, and benefits of an employee as defined by section 2105 of 
title 5 or an individual employed by the government of the District of 
Columbia, permanent or temporary indefinite, who--
        (1) is a member of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, as 
    described in section 261 of title 10, or the National Guard, as 
    described in section 101 of title 32;
        (2) performs, for the purpose of providing military aid to 
    enforce the law or providing assistance to civil authorities in the 
    protection or saving of life or property or prevention of injury--
            (A) Federal service under section 331, 332, 333, 3500, or 
        8500 of title 10, or other provision of law, as applicable, or
            (B) full-time military service for his State, the District 
        of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of 
        the United States; and
        (3) requests and is granted--
            (A) leave under the authority of this section; or
            (B) annual leave, which may be granted without regard to 
        the provisions of sections 5519 and 6323(b) of title 5, if such 
        employee is otherwise entitled to such annual leave:
Provided, That any employee who requests leave under subsection (3)(A) 
for service described in subsection (2) of this section is entitled to 
such leave, subject to the provisions of this section and of the last 
sentence of section 6323(b) of title 5, and such leave shall be 
considered leave under section 6323(b) of title 5.
    Sec. 8043. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to perform any cost study pursuant to the provisions of OMB 
Circular A-76 if the study being performed exceeds a period of twenty-
four months after initiation of such study with respect to a single 
function activity or forty-eight months after initiation of such study 
for a multi-function activity.
    Sec. 8044. Funds appropriated by this Act for the American Forces 
Information Service shall not be used for any national or international 
political or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8045. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
regulation, the Secretary of Defense may adjust wage rates for civilian 
employees hired for certain health care occupations as authorized for 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by section 7455 of title 38, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 8046. Of the funds made available in this Act, not less than 
$24,565,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol, of which 
$13,105,000 shall be available for Operation and Maintenance.
    Sec. 8047. None of the funds appropriated or made available in this 
Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 53rd 
Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such 
action would reduce the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the 
levels funded in this Act.
    Sec. 8048. (a) Of the funds for the procurement of supplies or 
services appropriated by this Act, qualified nonprofit agencies for the 
blind or other severely handicapped shall be afforded the maximum 
practicable opportunity to participate as subcontractors and suppliers 
in the performance of contracts let by the Department of Defense.
    (b) During the current fiscal year, a business concern which has 
negotiated with a military service or defense agency a subcontracting 
plan for the participation by small business concerns pursuant to 
section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) shall be 
given credit toward meeting that subcontracting goal for any purchases 
made from qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely 
handicapped.
    (c) For the purpose of this section, the phrase ``qualified 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped'' means a 
nonprofit agency for the blind or other severely handicapped that has 
been approved by the Committee for the Purchase from the Blind and 
Other Severely Handicapped under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 
46-48).
    Sec. 8049. During the current fiscal year, net receipts pursuant to 
collections from third party payers pursuant to section 1095 of title 
10, United States Code, shall be made available to the local facility 
of the uniformed services responsible for the collections and shall be 
over and above the facility's direct budget amount.
    Sec. 8050. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or 
regulation, ships designated T-AGS 63, T-AGS 64 and T-AGS 65 must 
utilize remanufactured milspec SASS multibeam sonars: Provided, That 
the Secretary of the Navy may waive this restriction by certifying in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations that an alternative 
acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national 
security purposes.
    Sec. 8050A. None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense during fiscal year 1995 may be obligated for low rate initial 
production of the ALR-67(V)3 Advanced Special Receiver (ASR) until 30 
days after the congressional defense committees have received the 
following:
        (1) A certification by the Director, Operational Test and 
    Evaluation, Defense, that, based on the results of the joint 
    Developmental Test/Operational Test flight tests and of the 
    Operational Assessment intended to address the readiness of the ASR 
    for low rate initial production, ASR is potentially operationally 
    effective and potentially operationally suitable and ready to enter 
    low rate initial production;
        (2) A comprehensive report by the Commander, Navy Operational 
    Test and Evaluation Force as to the test objectives and results of 
    the joint Developmental Test/Operational Test flight tests and of 
    the Operational Assessment intended to address the readiness of the 
    ASR for low rate initial production;
        (3) A comprehensive report by the Assistant Secretary of the 
    Navy (Research, Development and Acquisition) as to the test 
    objectives and results of the Developmental Flight Tests and 
    Technical Evaluation, along with her certification that, based on 
    these results, the ASR is ready to enter low rate initial 
    production.
    Sec. 8051. Section 8060 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1994 (Public Law 103-139) is hereby repealed, which contained 
authority for acquisition of LANDSAT 7.
    Sec. 8052. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated for the Defense Health Program during this fiscal year and 
hereafter, the amount payable for services provided under this section 
shall not be less than the amount calculated under the coordination of 
benefits reimbursement formula utilized when CHAMPUS is a secondary 
payor to medical insurance programs other than Medicare, and such 
appropriations as necessary shall be available (notwithstanding the 
last sentence of section 1086(c) of title 10, United States Code) to 
continue Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services 
(CHAMPUS) benefits, until age 65, under such section for a former 
member of a uniformed service who is entitled to retired or retainer 
pay or equivalent pay, or a dependent of such a member, or any other 
beneficiary described by section 1086(c) of title 10, United States 
Code, who becomes eligible for hospital insurance benefits under part A 
of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) 
solely on the grounds of physical disability, or end stage renal 
disease: Provided, That expenses under this section shall only be 
covered to the extent that such expenses are not covered under parts A 
and B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act and are otherwise 
covered under CHAMPUS: Provided further, That no reimbursement shall be 
made for services provided prior to October 1, 1991.
    Sec. 8053. During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed 
$250,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only 
from the Government of Kuwait, under that section: Provided, That, upon 
receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriation or fund which incurred such obligations.
    Sec. 8054. (a) Funds appropriated in this Act to finance activities 
of Department of Defense (DoD) Federally Funded Research and 
Development Centers (FFRDCs) may not be obligated or expended for a 
FFRDC if a member of its Board of Directors or Trustees simultaneously 
serves on the Board of Directors or Trustees of a profit-making company 
under contract to the Department of Defense unless the FFRDC has a DoD 
approved conflict of interest policy for its members.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act are available to 
establish a new FFRDC, either as a new entity, or as a separate entity 
administered by an organization managing another FFRDC, or as a 
nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a consortium of other 
FFRDCs and other nonprofit entities.
    (c) The Secretary of Defense may not obligate more than one-half of 
the funds available for each defense FFRDC, and more than one-half of 
the total amount available for defense FFRDCs, until the congressional 
defense committees receive the annual funding ceilings for fiscal year 
1995 for each defense FFRDC and each subcomponent of a defense FFRDC 
identified as a separate sub-entity due to the significantly unique 
nature of its functions.
    (d) Limitation on Compensation.--No employee or executive officer 
of a defense FFRDC may be compensated at a rate exceeding Executive 
Schedule Level I by that FFRDC: Provided, That the restriction 
contained in this subsection shall not take effect until July 1, 1995.
    (e) Limitation on Compensation.--No member of a Board of Directors, 
Trustees, Overseers, Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting 
Committee, or any similar entity of a defense FFRDC may be compensated 
for his or her services as a member of such entity except under the 
same conditions, and to the same extent, as members of the Defense 
Science Board: Provided, That a member of any such entity shall be 
allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized under the Federal 
Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in the performance of membership 
duties: Provided further, That the restriction contained in this 
subsection shall not take effect until July 1, 1995.
    (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
available to the Department of Defense from any source during fiscal 
year 1995 may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a fee or other 
payment mechanism, for charitable contributions, for construction of 
new buildings, for payment of cost sharing for projects funded by 
government grants, or for absorption of contract overruns.
    (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amounts 
available to the Department of Defense during fiscal year 1995, not 
more than $1,252,650,000 may be obligated for financing activities of 
FFRDCs: Provided, That the total amount appropriated in title IV of 
this Act is hereby reduced by $100,000,000 to reflect the funding 
ceiling contained in this subsection.
    (h) The total amount appropriated to or for the use of the 
Department of Defense in title IV of this Act is reduced by an 
additional $251,534,000 to reflect savings from the decreased use of 
non-FFRDC consulting services by the Department of Defense.
    (i) The total amount appropriated to or for the use of the 
Department of Defense in title IV of this Act is reduced by an 
additional $19,055,000 to reflect savings from the decreased use of 
major nonprofit federally funded research institutions and university-
affiliated research centers by the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8055. None of the funds appropriated or made available in this 
Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy or armor steel plate for use 
in any Government-owned facility or property under the control of the 
Department of Defense which were not melted and rolled in the United 
States or Canada: Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall 
apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society of 
Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and Steel Institute 
(AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel plate: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the military department responsible for 
the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes: Provided further, That these 
restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8055A. None of the unobligated balances available in the 
National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund during the current fiscal 
year may be obligated or expended to finance any grant or contract to 
conduct research, development, test and evaluation activities for the 
development or production of advanced materials, unless amounts for 
such purposes are specifically appropriated in a subsequent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 8056. For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services, the 
Committees on Appropriations, and the subcommittees on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations, of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 8057. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
current fiscal year, the Department of Defense may acquire the 
modification, depot maintenance and repair of aircraft, vehicles and 
vessels as well as the production of components and other Defense-
related articles, through competition between Department of Defense 
depot maintenance activities and private firms: Provided, That the 
Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or defense 
agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall certify that 
successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct and indirect 
costs for both public and private bids: Provided further, That Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions 
conducted under this section.
    Sec. 8058. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal 
defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the United 
States and a foreign country pursuant to which the Secretary of Defense 
has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for certain products in 
that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on 
the amount of Department of Defense purchases from foreign entities in 
fiscal year 1995. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar 
value of items for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to 
any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act 
of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to 
which the United States is a party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means title III of the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for 
the Treasury and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1934, and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 
U.S.C. 10a et seq.).
    Sec. 8058A. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the 
Department of Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with 
nonappropriated funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages 
sold by the drink) on a military installation located in the United 
States unless such malt beverages and wine are procured within that 
State, or in the case of the District of Columbia, within the District 
of Columbia, in which the military installation is located: Provided, 
That in a case in which the military installation is located in more 
than one State, purchases may be made in any State in which the 
installation is located: Provided further, That such local procurement 
requirements for malt beverages and wine shall apply to all alcoholic 
beverages only for military installations in States which are not 
contiguous with another State: Provided further, That alcoholic 
beverages other than wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and 
the District of Columbia shall be procured from the most competitive 
source, price and other factors considered.
    Sec. 8059. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act in title II, 
Operation and Maintenance, Army, $1,000,000 shall be available only to 
execute the cleanup of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination 
affecting the Sale Parcel at Hamilton Air Force Base, in Novato, in the 
State of California.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the event that 
the purchaser of the Sale Parcel exercises its option to withdraw from 
all or a portion of the sale, as provided in the Agreement and 
Modification, dated September 25, 1990, between the Department of 
Defense, the General Services Administration, and the purchaser, as 
amended, the purchaser's deposit of $4,500,000 shall be returned by the 
General Services Administration and funds eligible for reimbursement 
under the Agreement and Modification, as amended, shall come from the 
funds made available to the Department of Defense by this Act.
    (c) In the event that the purchaser purchases only a portion of the 
Sale Parcel and exercises its option to withdraw from the sale as to 
the rest of the Sale Parcel, the portion of the Sale Parcel that is not 
purchased (other than Landfill 26 and an appropriate buffer area around 
it and the groundwater treatment facility site), together with any of 
the land referred to in section 9099(e) of Public Law 102-396 that is 
not purchased by the purchaser, shall be sold to the City of Novato, in 
the State of California, for the sum of One Dollar as a public benefit 
transfer for school, classroom or other educational use, for use as a 
public park or recreation area or for further conveyance as provided 
herein, subject to the following restrictions: (1) if the City sells 
any portion of such land to any third party within ten years after the 
transfer to the City, which sale may be made without the foregoing use 
restrictions, any proceeds received by the City in connection with such 
sale, minus the demonstrated reasonable costs of conducting the sale 
and of any improvements made by the City to the land following its 
acquisition of the land (but only to the extent such improvements 
increase the value of the portion sold), shall be immediately turned 
over to the Army in reimbursement of the withdrawal payment made by the 
Army to the contract purchaser and the costs of cleaning up the 
Landfill and (2) until one year following completion of the cleanup of 
contaminated soil in the Landfill and completion of the groundwater 
treatment facilities, the sale must be at a per-acre price for the 
portion sold that is at least equal to the per-acre contract price paid 
by the purchaser for the portion of the Sale Parcel purchased under the 
Agreement and Modification, as amended, and thereafter must be at a 
price at least equal to the fair market value of the portion sold. The 
foregoing restrictions shall not apply to a transfer to another public 
or quasi-public agency for public uses of the kind described above. The 
deed to the City shall contain a clause providing that, if any of the 
proceeds referred to in clause (1) are not delivered to the Army within 
30 days after sale, or any portion of the land not sold as provided 
herein is used for other than educational, park or recreational uses, 
title to the applicable portion of such land shall revert to the United 
States Government at the election of the General Services 
Administration. The Army shall agree to deliver into the applicable 
closing escrow an acknowledgement of receipt of any proceeds described 
in clause (1) above and a release of the reverter right as to the 
affected land, effective upon such receipt.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Air Force shall 
be reimbursed for expenditures in excess of $15,000,000 in connection 
with the total clean-up of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination 
on the aforementioned Sale Parcel from the proceeds collected upon the 
closing of any portion of the Sale Parcel purchased by the contract 
purchaser under the Agreement and Modification, as amended.
    (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the purchaser's 
reimbursement claims shall be audited by the Defense Contract Audit 
Agency for reasonableness and accuracy before the Department of Defense 
provides any funds under the purchaser's withdrawal and reimbursement 
rights.
    Sec. 8060. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Defense may, when he considers it in the best interest of 
the United States, cancel any part of an indebtedness, up to $2,500, 
that is or was owed to the United States by a member or former member 
of a uniformed service if such indebtedness, as determined by the 
Secretary, was incurred in connection with Operation Desert Shield/
Storm: Provided, That the amount of an indebtedness previously paid by 
a member or former member and cancelled under this section shall be 
refunded to the member.
    Sec. 8061. Appropriations contained in this Act that remain 
available at the end of the current fiscal year as a result of energy 
cost savings realized by the Department of Defense shall remain 
available for obligation for the next fiscal year to the extent, and 
for the purposes, provided in section 2865 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 8062. During the current fiscal year, voluntary separation 
incentives payable under 10 U.S.C. 1175 may be paid in such amounts as 
are necessary from the assets of the Voluntary Separation Incentive 
Fund established by section 1175(h)(1).


                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8063. Amounts deposited during fiscal years 1994 and 1995 to 
the special account established under 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) and to the 
special account established under 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1) are appropriated 
and shall be available until transferred by the Secretary of Defense to 
current applicable appropriations or funds of the Department of Defense 
under the terms and conditions specified by 40 U.S.C. 485(h)(2) (A) and 
(B) and 10 U.S.C. 2667(d)(1)(B), to be merged with and to be available 
for the same time period and the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred.
    Sec. 8064. In order to maintain an electric furnace capacity in the 
United States, preference for the purchase of chromite ore and 
manganese ore authorized for disposal from the National Defense 
Stockpile shall be given to domestic producers of high carbon 
ferrochromium and high carbon ferromanganese--
        (A) whose primary output during the three preceding years has 
    been ferrochromium or ferromanganese; and
        (B) who guarantee to use the chromite and manganese ore for 
    domestic purposes.
    Sec. 8064A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
statutorily-required analysis of the impact on the defense technology 
and industrial base of terminations and significant reductions of major 
research and development programs and procurement programs of the 
Department of Defense shall address only those actions recommended by 
the Defense Department in its annual budget request and amendments 
thereto, supplemental requests, or proposed rescissions.
    Sec. 8065. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be 
available for the preparation of studies on--
        (a) the feasibility of removal and transportation of unitary 
    chemical weapons from the eight chemical storage sites within the 
    continental United States: Provided, That this prohibition shall 
    not apply to non-stockpile material in the United States or to 
    studies needed for environmental analysis required by the National 
    Environmental Policy Act, or for General Accounting Office studies 
    requested by a Member of Congress or a Congressional Committee; and
        (b) the potential future uses of the nine chemical disposal 
    facilities other than for the destruction of stockpile chemical 
    munitions and as limited by section 1412(c)(2), Public Law 99-145: 
    Provided, That this prohibition does not apply to future use 
    studies for the CAMDS facility at Tooele, Utah.
    Sec. 8066. During the current fiscal year, appropriations available 
to the Department of Defense may be used to reimburse a member of a 
reserve component of the Armed Forces who is not otherwise entitled to 
travel and transportation allowances and who occupies transient 
government housing while performing active duty for training or 
inactive duty training: Provided, That such members may be provided 
lodging in kind if transient government quarters are unavailable as if 
the member was entitled to such allowances under subsection (a) of 
section 404 of title 37, United States Code: Provided further, That if 
lodging in kind is provided, any authorized service charge or cost of 
such lodging may be paid directly from funds appropriated for operation 
and maintenance of the reserve component of the member concerned.
    Sec. 8067. For fiscal year 1995, the total amount appropriated to 
fund the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities program, operated 
pursuant to section 911 of Public Law 97-99 (42 U.S.C. 248c), is 
limited to $329,000,000, of which not more than $300,000,000 may be 
provided by the funds appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 8068. None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
support in any manner, including travel or other related expenses, the 
``Tailhook Association'': Provided, That investigations by the 
Secretary of the Navy or consultation with the Tailhook Association are 
not prohibited by this provision.
    Sec. 8069. The President shall include with each budget for a 
fiscal year submitted to the Congress under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, materials that shall identify clearly and 
separately the amounts requested in the budget for appropriation for 
that fiscal year for salaries and expenses related to administrative 
activities of the Department of Defense, the military Pdepartments, and 
the Defense Agencies.
    Sec. 8070. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be obligated or expended for construction of Ground Wave Emergency 
Network (GWEN) sites in Fiscal Year 1995.
    Sec. 8071. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Naval 
shipyards of the United States shall be eligible to participate in any 
manufacturing extension program financed by funds appropriated in this 
or any other Act.
    Sec. 8072. During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in the 
Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment Recovery 
Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) 
shall be available until expended for the payments specified by section 
2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8073. During the current fiscal year, annual payments granted 
under the provisions of section 4416 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-428; 106 Stat. 
2714) shall be made from appropriations in this Act which are available 
for the pay of reserve component personnel.
    Sec. 8074. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act, not more than $119,200,000 shall be available for payment of 
the operating costs of NATO Headquarters.
    Sec. 8075. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to procure aircraft fuel cells unless the fuel cells are produced or 
manufactured in the United States by a domestic-operated entity: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the military department responsible for 
the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes.
    Sec. 8075A. None of the funds available to the Department of the 
Air Force shall be available to establish or support any organic depot 
maintenance support activity for the B-2 bomber until the Under 
Secretary of Defense, Acquisition and Technology reviews the existing 
infrastructure for the private sector and Air Force Depot support and 
maintenance of the B-2 and reports to the Congressional Defense 
Committees the most efficient and cost effective utilization of public 
and private facilities to support the B-2.
    Sec. 8076. During the current fiscal year, appropriations which are 
available to the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance 
may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of 
not more than $50,000.
    Sec. 8077. During the current fiscal year, appropriations available 
for the pay and allowances of active duty members of the Armed Forces 
shall be available to pay the retired pay which is payable pursuant to 
section 4403 of Public Law 102-484 (10 U.S.C. 1293 note) under the 
terms and conditions provided in section 4403.
    Sec. 8078. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Defense Business Operations 
Fund shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for the 
purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated sale 
during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers 
of the Defense Business Operations Fund if such an item would not have 
been chargeable to the Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal 
year 1994 and if the purchase of such an investment item would be 
chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations made to the 
Department of Defense for procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 1996 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 1996 Department of Defense budget shall be 
prepared and submitted to the Congress on the basis that any equipment 
which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
fiscal year 1996 procurement appropriation and not in the supply 
management business area or any other area or category of the Defense 
Business Operations Fund.
    Sec. 8079. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for use by a Military Department to modify an aircraft, 
weapon, ship or other item of equipment, that the Military Department 
concerned plans to retire or otherwise dispose of within five years 
after completion of the modification: Provided, That this prohibition 
shall not apply to safety modifications: Provided further, That this 
prohibition may be waived by the Secretary of a Military Department if 
the Secretary determines it is in the best national security interest 
of the United States to provide such waiver and so notifies the 
congressional defense committees in writing.
    Sec. 8080. No part of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
prepare or present a request to the Committees on Appropriations for 
reprogramming of funds, unless for higher priority items, based on 
unforeseen military requirements, than those for which originally 
appropriated and in no case where the item for which reprogramming is 
requested has been denied by the Congress.
    Sec. 8081. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for payment of the compensation of personnel assigned to or 
serving in the National Foreign Intelligence Program in excess of 94 
percent of such personnel actually assigned to or serving in the 
National Foreign Intelligence Program on September 30, 1992: Provided, 
That in making any reduction in the number of such personnel that may 
be required pursuant to this section, the percentage of reductions to 
Senior Intelligence Service positions shall be equal to or exceed the 
percentage of reductions to non-Senior Intelligence Service positions: 
Provided further, That in making any reduction in the number of such 
personnel that may be required pursuant to this section, the percentage 
of reductions to positions in the National Capital Region shall be 
equal to or exceed the percentage of reductions to positions outside of 
the National Capital Region.
    Sec. 8081A. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, $67,000,000 is hereby appropriated and shall be 
made available only for liquidating deficiencies in the amounts 
specified in the appropriations ``National Guard Personnel, Army, 
1993'', $55,000,000; and ``Reserve Personnel, Army, 1993'', 
$12,000,000.
    Sec. 8082. None of the funds provided by this Act may be used to 
pay the salaries of any person or persons who authorize the transfer of 
obligated and deobligated appropriations into the Reserve for 
Contingencies of the Central Intelligence Agency.
    Sec. 8083. None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for 
obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds 
appropriated for the Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 1996.
    Sec. 8084. The classified Annex prepared by the Committee on 
Appropriations to accompany the report on the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1995 is hereby incorporated into this Act: 
Provided, That the amounts specified in the classified Annex are not in 
addition to amounts appropriated by other provisions of this Act: 
Provided further, That the President shall provide for appropriate 
distribution of the classified Annex, or of appropriate portions of the 
classified Annex, within the executive branch of the Government.
    Sec. 8085. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act for the Defense Intelligence Agency may be used 
for the design, development, and deployment of General Defense 
Intelligence Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
information systems for the Services, the Unified and Specified 
Commands, and the component commands.
    Sec. 8086. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to pay health care providers under the Civilian Health and Medical 
Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) for services determined 
under the CHAMPUS Peer Review Organization (PRO) Program to be not 
medically or psychologically necessary. The Secretary of Defense may by 
regulation adopt any quality and utilization review requirements and 
procedures in effect for the Peer Review Organization Program under 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) that the Secretary 
determines necessary, and may adapt the Medicare requirements and 
procedures to the circumstances of the CHAMPUS PRO Program as the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    Sec. 8087. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
reimbursements received from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for 
the E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) Radar System 
Improvement Program (RSIP) attributable to development work for fiscal 
years 1987 through 1992 shall be available to the Air Force until 
September 30, 1995, for meeting that service's financial commitments 
for the AWACS RSIP.
    Sec. 8088. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transport or provide for the 
transportation of chemical munitions to the Johnston Atoll for the 
purpose of storing or demilitarizing such munitions.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
obsolete World War II chemical munition of the United States found in 
the World War II Pacific Theater of Operations.
    (c) The President may suspend the application of subsection (a) 
during a period of war in which the United States is a party.
    Sec. 8089. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act and in the fiscal year 1994 Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act (Public Law 103-139) under the heading 
``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' shall be available to pay equitable 
adjustments to which the contractor is legally entitled for Coastal 
Patrol Craft that were procured in prior fiscal years.
    Sec. 8090. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this Act for the High Performance Computing 
Modernization Program shall be made available only for the upgrade, 
purchase, or modernization of supercomputing capability and capacity at 
Department of Defense (DoD) science and technology sites under the 
cognizance of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering and DoD 
test and evaluation facilities under the Director of Test and 
Evaluation, OUSD (A&T): Provided, That the contracts, contract 
modifications, contract options, or other agreements are awarded as the 
result of full and open competition based upon the requirements of the 
user.
    Sec. 8091. Amounts collected for the use of the facilities of the 
National Science Center for Communications and Electronics during the 
current fiscal year pursuant to section 1459(g) of the Department of 
Defense Authorization Act, 1986 and deposited to the special account 
established under subsection 1459(g)(2) of that Act are appropriated 
and shall be available until expended for the operation and maintenance 
of the Center as provided for in subsection 1459(g)(2).
    Sec. 8092. The Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central 
Intelligence shall deliver, no later than January 1, 1995, a report 
providing the following information about all research and development 
projects involving the implementation, monitoring, or verification of 
current and projected international arms control agreements: (a) annual 
and total budgets, goals, schedules, and priorities; (b) relationships 
among related projects being funded by the Department of Defense, the 
National Foreign Intelligence Program, and other departments and 
agencies of the Federal Government; and (c) comments by the Arms 
Control and Disarmament Agency about the relevance of each project to 
the arms control priorities of the United States.
    Sec. 8093. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be used for the 
purchase of a totally enclosed lifeboat survival system, which consists 
of the lifeboat and associated davits and winches, if less than 50 
percent of the entire system's components are manufactured in the 
United States, and if less than 50 percent of the labor in the 
manufacture and assembly of the entire system is performed in the 
United States.
    Sec. 8093A. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
to fill the commander's position at any military medical facility with 
a health care professional unless the prospective candidate can 
demonstrate professional administrative skills.
    Sec. 8094. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended by an entity of the Department of Defense unless the entity, 
in expending the funds, complies with the Buy American Act. For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ``Buy American Act'' means title 
III of the Act entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Treasury 
and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934, 
and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et 
seq.).
    (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person has been 
convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription to any product sold in or shipped to the United 
States that is not made in America, the Secretary shall determine, in 
accordance with section 2410f of title 10, United States Code, whether 
the person should be debarred from contracting with the Department of 
Defense.
    Sec. 8094A. Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
(DOD) for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, not less than 
$8,000,000 shall be made available until expended to the Administration 
for Native Americans within 90 days of enactment of this Act: Provided, 
That such funds shall be made available only for the mitigation of 
environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to 
tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department 
of Defense activities: Provided further, That the Department of Defense 
shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
House of Representatives by September 30, 1995, a summary report of all 
environmental damage that has occurred on Indian land as a result of 
DOD activities, to include, to the extent feasible, a list of all 
documents and records known to the Department that describe the 
activity or action causing or relating to such environmental damage.
    Sec. 8095. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
in this Act shall be used by the Secretary of a military department to 
purchase coal or coke from foreign nations for use at United States 
defense facilities in Europe when coal from the United States is 
available.
    Sec. 8096. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for a defense technology reinvestment 
project that is not selected pursuant to the applicable competitive 
selection and other procedures set forth in chapter 148 of title 10, 
United States Code: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds appropriated for the Advanced Research Projects Agency 
defense reinvestment program element under the heading ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' shall not be obligated 
until the Secretary of Defense has ensured that the Assistant 
Secretaries for Research, Development, and Acquisition of the separate 
Military Departments are full members of the Defense Technology 
Conversion Council and are fully integrated into the process of 
selecting dual-use technology focus areas for such programs and 
evaluating proposals for such projects: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds appropriated 
for defense reinvestment programs under the heading ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $75,000,000 may only 
be obligated for projects selected as a result of a competition held by 
the Advanced Research Projects Agency in focus areas selected 
exclusively by the Assistant Secretaries for Research, Development, and 
Acquisition of the separate Military Departments: Provided further, 
That in addition to the restriction contained in the preceding 
provisos, the competition in focus areas shall be conducted in 
accordance with other unaffected statutory provisions of the Defense 
Conversion, Reinvestment, and Transition Assistance Amendments of 1993.
    Sec. 8097. None of the funds appropriated in this Act are available 
for development of bi-static active capability in SURTASS unless the 
acoustic signal processing for this capability is hosted exclusively on 
the AN/UYS-2 in the operational system.
    Sec. 8097A. (a) Not later than April 1, 1995, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Congressional defense committees a 
management plan for the major university-affiliated research centers 
which support the Department of Defense.
    (b) The master plan required by the preceding subsection shall--
        (1) establish annual funding and manpower ceilings for each 
    institution, and a total annual funding and manpower ceiling;
        (2) describe in detail what specific actions are being taken to 
    increase management of these institutions by the Office of the 
    Secretary of Defense, and to reduce future annual funding; and
        (3) explain the contracting arrangement with each institution, 
    including an evaluation of whether contracts for future efforts 
    should be competitively awarded.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``major'' shall 
apply to institutions which receive more than $2,000,000 annually from 
the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8098. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for a contract for studies, analyses, or consulting services 
entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited 
proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for the 
procurement determines--
        (1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, only one 
    source is found fully qualified to perform the proposed work, or
        (2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an unsolicited 
    proposal which offers significant scientific or technological 
    promise, represents the product of original thinking, and was 
    submitted in confidence by one source, or
        (3) the purpose of the contract is to take advantage of unique 
    and significant industrial accomplishment by a specific concern, or 
    to insure that a new product or idea of a specific concern is given 
    financial support:
Provided, That this limitation shall not apply to contracts in an 
amount of less than $25,000, contracts related to improvements of 
equipment that is in development or production, or contracts as to 
which a civilian official of the Department of Defense, who has been 
confirmed by the Senate, determines that the award of such contract is 
in the interest of the national defense.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8099. Upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall make the following transfers of funds: Provided, That the amounts 
transferred shall be available for the same purposes as the 
appropriations to which transferred, and for the same time period as 
the appropriation from which transferred: Provided further, That the 
amounts shall be transferred between the following appropriations in 
the amounts specified:
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1986/
    1990'':
            CG-47 cruiser program, $6,000,000;
            LSD-41 landing ship dock program, $1,700,000;
            T-AGOS ocean surveillance ship program, $5,000,000;
            For craft, outfitting, post delivery, and cost growth, 
        $2,438,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1986/
    1990'':
            SSN-688 attack submarine program, $11,719,000;
            MSH coastal mine hunter program, $3,419,000;
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1987/
    1991'':
            TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, $650,000;
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $633,000;
            CG-47 cruiser program, $283,000;
            T-AO fleet oiler program, $2,800,000;
            AO conversion program, $400,000;
            For craft, outfitting, and post delivery, $5,900,000;
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $18,069,000;
        National Guard and Reserve Equipment, 1994/1996, $5,145,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1987/
    1991'':
            SSN-688 attack submarine program, $18,496,000;
            AOE fast combat support ship program, $15,384,000;
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1988/
    1992'':
            CG-47 cruiser program, $15,351,000;
            LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, $4,773,000;
            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $7,028,000;
            AO conversion program, $1,900,000;
        Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $100,642,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1988/
    1992'':
            TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, $6,035,000;
            SSN-688 attack submarine program, $19,659,000;
            CVN nuclear aircraft carrier program, $104,000,000;
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1989/
    1993'':
            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $3,400,000;
            T-AO fleet oiler program, $3,488,000;
            T-AGOS surveillance ship program, $3,197,000;
            AO conversion program, $1,300,000;
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $178,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $22,400,000;
        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy, 1994/1995, 
    $41,700,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1989/
    1993'':
            SSN-688 attack submarine program, $18,939,000;
            SSN-21 attack submarine program, $37,123,000;
            MHC coastal mine hunter program, $1,700,000;
            AOE combat support ship program, $17,901,000;
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1990/
    1994'':
            TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, $2,400,000;
            Aircraft carrier service life extension program, $346,000;
            MCM mine countermeasures program, $657,000;
            Oceanographic ship program, $3,964,000;
            LCAC landing craft air cushion program, $1,188,000;
        Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $6,000,000;
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $6,753,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $1,297,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1990/
    1994'':
            SSN-688 attack submarine program, $9,046,000;
            MHC coastal mine hunter program, $3,575,000;
            AOE combat support ship program, $9,984,000;
    From:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1991/
    1995'':
            TRIDENT ballistic missile submarine program, $39,500,000;
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $8,200,000;
            LSD-41 dock landing ship cargo variant ship program, 
        $22,427,000;
        Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $17,000,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $666,000;
        Procurement, Marine Corps, 1993/1995, $6,600,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1991/
    1995'':
            SSN-21 attack submarine program, $48,240,000;
            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $43,600,000;
            MHC coastal mine hunter program, $2,553,000;
    From:
        Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $42,000,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $29,261,000;
        National Guard and Reserve equipment, 1994/1996, $5,183,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1992/
    1996'':
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $64,958,000;
            MHC coastal mine hunter program, $11,486,000;
    From:
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995, $30,000,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $38,438,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1993/
    1997'':
            DDG-51 destroyer program, $26,894,000;
            LSD-41 cargo variant ship program, $5,663,000;
            MHC coastal mine hunter program, $7,615,000;
            AOE combat support ship program, $28,266,000;
    From:
        Weapons Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $14,000,000;
        Other Procurement, Navy, 1994/1996, $763,000;
        National Guard and Reserve Equipment, 1994/1996, $4,672,000;
    To:
        Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1994/
    1998'':
            LHD-1 amphibious assault ship program, $15,131,000;
            Oceanographic ship program, $4,304,000.
    Sec. 8100. It is the sense of Congress that none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act should be 
available for the purposes of deploying United States Armed Forces to 
participate in the implementation of a peace settlement in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, unless previously authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 8101. Not later than May 1, 1995, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate an independent cost effectiveness study of Air Force bomber 
programs: Provided, That of the total amounts available to the 
Department of Defense for financing the activities of defense federally 
funded research and development centers during fiscal year 1995, 
$4,500,000 shall be made available within 30 days after the enactment 
of this Act for the purposes of the aforementioned study.
    Sec. 8102. Funds appropriated by this Act for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 1995 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 8103. (1) Except as provided in subsection (C) below, it is 
the sense of the Congress that none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act should be obligated or expended for costs incurred by the United 
States Armed Forces units serving in any international peacekeeping or 
peace-enforcement operations under the authority of Chapter VI or 
Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and under the authority of a 
United Nations Security Council Resolution, or for costs incurred by 
United States Armed Forces serving in any significant international 
humanitarian, peacekeeping or peace-enforcement operations, unless--
        (a) the President initiates consultations with the bipartisan 
    leadership of Congress, including the leadership of the relevant 
    committees, regarding such operations; these consultations should 
    be initiated at least fifteen days prior to the initial deployment 
    of United States Armed Forces units to participate in such an 
    operation, whenever possible, but in no case later than forty-eight 
    hours after such a deployment; and these consultations should 
    continue on a periodic basis throughout the period of the 
    deployment;
        (b) such consultation should include discussion of--
            (1) the goals of the operation and the mission of any 
        United States Armed Forces units involved in the operation;
            (2) the United States interests that will be served by the 
        operation;
            (3) the estimated cost of the operation;
            (4) the strategy by which the President proposes to fund 
        the operation, including possible supplemental appropriations 
        or payments from international organizations, foreign countries 
        or other donors;
            (5) the extent of involvement of armed forces and other 
        contributions of personnel from other nations; and
            (6) the operation's anticipated duration and scope;
        (c) subsection (a) does not apply with respect to an 
    international humanitarian assistance operation carried out in 
    response to natural disasters; or to any other international 
    humanitarian assistance operation if the President reports to 
    Congress that the estimated cost of such operation is less than 
    $50,000,000.
    (2) Further, it is the sense of the Congress that the President 
should seek supplemental appropriations for any significant deployment 
of United States Armed Forces when such forces are to Pperform or have 
been performing international humanitarian, peacekeeping or peace-
enforcement operations.


                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8104. Balances of the funds appropriated in Public Laws 102-
172, 102-396, and 103-139, under the headings ``World University 
Games'', ``Summer Olympics'', and ``World Cup USA 1994'' in title II of 
those Acts shall be merged with the appropriation heading entitled 
``Summer Olympics'' appearing under title II of this Act and shall be 
available only for purposes described under that heading.
    Sec. 8104A. The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all 
applicable DOD regulations and component command, installation, or 
agency policies and procedures governing temporary duty travel on 
official military business to the States of Hawaii and Alaska require 
no higher levels of approval or stricter controls than travel within 
the continental United States.
    Sec. 8105. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be used to support the relocation of P-3 aircraft squadrons or 
other aircraft or units from the Naval Air Station at Barbers Point, 
Hawaii unless such relocation was specifically stated in the 1993 
Report to the President of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
Commission.
    Sec. 8106. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated for design, development, acquisition, or operation of more 
than 47 Titan IV expendable launch vehicles, or for satellite mission-
model planning for a Titan IV requirement beyond 47 vehicles.
    (b) Of the funds provided in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public Law 103-139), the Secretary of Defense 
shall transfer a total of $60,000,000 to the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration (NASA): Provided, That of that amount, $25,000,000 
shall be transferred from Procurement, Defense-Wide, 1994/1996, and 
shall only be used for LANDSAT 7: Provided further, That of that 
amount, $35,000,000 shall be transferred from Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide, 1994/1995, and shall only be used 
for Single-Stage-to-Orbit research and development at Phillips 
Laboratory, Albuquerque, New Mexico and, pursuant to the President's 
call for a supporting role for DOD in this technology, the funds shall 
be used in activities to support NASA-led construction of an Advanced 
Technology Demonstrator X-vehicle and to finish the original flight 
test program of the DC-X1 test vehicle.
    (c) $30,000,000 made available in this Act for Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force and $10,000,000 made 
available in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public 
Law 103-139) for Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
Wide, 1994/1995, may only be obligated for development of a new family 
of medium-lift and heavy-lift expendable launch vehicles evolved from 
existing technologies: Provided, That the $30,000,000 in fiscal year 
1995 funds shall not be available for obligation until the Secretary of 
Defense submits a detailed plan describing the proposed development 
program for the new family of expendable launch vehicles.
    Sec. 8106A. In the case of members who separate from active duty or 
full-time National Guard duty in a military department pursuant to a 
Special Separation Benefits program (10 U.S.C. 1174a) or a Voluntary 
Separation Incentive program (10 U.S.C. 1175) at any time after the 
enactment of this Act, the separation payments paid such members who 
are also paid any bonus provided for in chapter 5, title 37, United 
States Code, during the same years in which they separate shall be 
reduced (but in no event to an amount less than zero) by an amount 
equal to any such bonus: Provided, That any future bonus payments to 
which such members would otherwise be entitled are rescinded: Provided 
further, That this measure will not apply to members who separate 
during the last year of a bonus paid pursuant to chapter 5, title 37, 
United States Code: Provided further, That civilian employees of the 
Department of Defense are prohibited from receiving voluntary 
separation payments if such employees are rehired by any agency of the 
Federal Government within one hundred and eighty days of separating 
from the Department of Defense: Provided further, That members who 
separate from active duty or full-time National Guard duty in a 
military department at any time after the enactment of this Act, are 
prohibited from receiving Special Separation Benefits program (10 
U.S.C. 1174a) or Voluntary Separation Incentive program (10 U.S.C. 
1175) payments if rehired in a civilian position by the Department of 
Defense within one hundred and eighty days of separating from active 
duty or full-time National Guard duty.
    Sec. 8107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated to the Department of the Navy for Operation and 
Maintenance, not less than $4,500,000 shall be obligated and expended 
only for operation and maintenance, automatic data processing 
equipment, transition assistance or in-house central design development 
and activities for the Naval Reserve Force Information Systems Office, 
the Naval Reserve Personnel Center, the Enlisted Personnel Management 
Center, and the collocated Naval Computer and Telecommunications 
Station: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for Procurement and 
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide not less than $18,000,000 shall 
be obligated and expended only for automatic data processing equipment 
or software, in-house central design development and activities, and 
transition assistance for the Naval Reserve Force Information Systems 
Office, the Naval Reserve Personnel Center, the Enlisted Personnel 
Management Center and the collocated Naval Computer and 
Telecommunications Station, of which $8,000,000 shall be available in 
procurement funds and $5,000,000 shall be available in operation and 
maintenance funds only for the establishment of a Continuity of 
Operations (COOP) center that shall be collocated with the Naval 
Reserve Force Information Systems Office, the Enlisted Personnel 
Management Center, and the collocated Naval Computer and 
Telecommunications Station for the contingency preservation of computer 
data for the Department of Defense Data and Megacenter consolidation 
initiative: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Navy shall 
establish the Naval Reserve Force Information Systems Office and the 
Enlisted Personnel Management Center, supported by the collocated Naval 
Computer and Telecommunications Station, as the central design 
activities for development, integration, coding, documentation, and 
system management for the software development and maintenance of the 
Naval active and reserve single Source Data Collection System: Provided 
further, That the Bureau of Naval Personnel shall remain as the Program 
Manager for definition of functional requirements and priorities: 
Provided further, That the last proviso of section 8023 of Public Law 
103-139, is hereby repealed.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8107A. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act, $8,000,000 shall be made available for pay and 
allowances for the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Reserve Affairs to be available only for support of Civil-Military 
Cooperation program operations, for transfer to appropriations 
available to the Department of Defense for military personnel of the 
reserve components serving under the provisions of title 10 and title 
32, United States Code: Provided, That the funds made available by this 
paragraph shall be available for obligation for the same time period 
and for the same purpose as the appropriation to which transferred: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this 
paragraph is in addition to any transfer authority contained elsewhere 
in this Act.
    Sec. 8108. No funds available to the Department of Defense in this 
Act may be used to establish additional field operating agencies of any 
element of the Department during fiscal year 1995, except for field 
operating agencies funded within the National Foreign Intelligence 
Program.
    Sec. 8108A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
resident classes entering the war colleges after September 30, 1996, 
the Department of Defense shall require that not less than 20 percent 
of the total of United States military students at each war college 
shall be from military departments other than the hosting military 
department: Provided, That each military department will recognize the 
attendance at a sister military department war college as the 
equivalent of attendance at its own war college for promotion and 
advancement of personnel.
    Sec. 8109. None of the funds provided in this Act may be expended 
for the refurbishment of M61/20 mm Gatling Gun assets for domestic or 
foreign military sales unless the Department of the Air Force competes 
this work among qualified depots and commercial contractors.
    Sec. 8110. None of the funds provided in this Act may be obligated 
or expended for the sale of zinc in the National Defense Stockpile if 
zinc commodity prices decline more than five percent below the London 
Metals Exchange market price reported on the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 8111. Funds made available to the Department of the Navy for 
the EA-6B program in this Act and prior Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts may be used to procure any lower costs alternative 
to the ADVCAP upgrade program considered by the Department of the Navy 
to be appropriate and cost effective.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8112. For the rehabilitation of damage caused to Rongelap 
Atoll by the nuclear testing program and for the resettlement of 
Rongelap Atoll, $5,000,000 is appropriated to the Department of 
Defense, which shall be transferred to the Department of the Interior 
for deposit into the Rongelap Resettlement Trust Fund.
    Sec. 8113. Prohibition on Use of Funds for Certain Activities at 
Cameron Station, Virginia.--(a) Prohibition.--None of the funds 
appropriated in this Act or otherwise made available to the Department 
of Defense may be obligated or expended by the Secretary of Defense for 
the execution pursuant to subsection (f) of section 501 of the Stewart 
B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411) of a lease, 
permit, or deed of conveyance for use to assist the homeless of any 
property described in subsection (b) until the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, appropriate representatives of the City of Alexandria, 
Virginia, and representatives of the homeless whose applications for 
use of such property to assist the homeless have been approved by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under subsection (e)(3) of such 
section jointly determine that such use is reasonable under the 
redevelopment plan for Cameron Station, Virginia.
    (b) Covered Property.--Subsection (a) applies to the public 
buildings and real property located at Cameron Station, Virginia, which 
installation was approved for closure pursuant to the provisions of 
title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and 
Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
    Sec. 8114. The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, 
Communications and Intelligence shall establish and implement a master 
plan for all acquisitions of automated document conversion systems, 
equipment, and technologies: Provided, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used to develop technologies or to acquire new automated 
document conversion equipment, services, or systems which cost more 
than $5,000,000 after April 1, 1995 unless such acquisitions are 
approved in advance by the Assistant Secretary or his designee: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated to the Department of 
Defense for Procurement, Defense-Wide, not less than $20,000,000 shall 
be used only to integrate the Automated Document Conversion System into 
the Joint Engineering Data Management and Information Control System.
    Sec. 8114A. (a) Fiscal Year 1995 Cost-of-Living Adjustment for 
Military Retirees.--(1) The fiscal year 1995 increase in military 
retired pay shall (notwithstanding subparagraph (B) of section 
1401a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code) first be payable as part 
of such retired pay for the month of March 1995.
    (2) For the purposes of subsection (a):
        (A) The term ``fiscal year 1995 increase in military retired 
    pay'' means the increase in retired pay that, pursuant to paragraph 
    (1) of section 1401a(b) of title 10, United States Code, becomes 
    effective on December 1, 1994.
        (B) The term ``retired pay'' includes retainer pay.
    (b) Future Cost-of-Living Adjustments for Military Retirees.--
        (1) Subject to paragraph (2), subparagraph (B) of section 
    1401a(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in the heading, by striking out ``through 1998'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``through 1996''; and
            (B) in clause (ii)--
                (i) by striking out ``through 1998'' and inserting in 
            lieu thereof ``and 1996'';
                (ii) by striking out ``of 1994, 1995, 1996, or 1997'' 
            and inserting in lieu thereof ``of 1994 or 1995''; and
                (iii) by striking out ``September'' and inserting in 
            lieu thereof ``March''.
        (2) Paragraph (1) shall be effective only if--
            (A) the President, in the budget of the President for 
        fiscal year 1996, proposes legislation which if enacted would 
        be qualifying offsetting legislation; and
            (B) there is enacted during the first session of the 104th 
        Congress qualifying offsetting legislation.
        (3) If the conditions in paragraph (2) are met, then the 
    amendments by paragraph (1) shall take effect on January 1, 1996.
        (4) For purposes of this subsection:
            (A) The term ``qualifying offsetting legislation'' means 
        legislation (other than an appropriations Act) that includes 
        provisions that--
                (i) offset fully the increased outlays for each of 
            fiscal years 1996, 1997, and 1998 to be made from the 
            Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund by reason of 
            the amendment made by paragraph (1);
                (ii) expressly state that they are enacted for the 
            purpose of the offset described in clause (i); and
                (iii) are included in full on the PayGo scorecard.
            (B) The term ``PayGo scorecard'' means the estimates that 
        are made with respect to fiscal years through fiscal year 1998 
        by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office and the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget under section 
        252(d) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
        of 1985.
    Sec. 8115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act may be used to procure vessel propellers six 
feet in diameter and greater unless such propellers are manufactured in 
the United States incorporating only castings which are poured and 
finished in the United States. Nor may any of the funds provided in 
this Act be used to procure ship propulsion shafting unless such ship 
propulsion shafting is manufactured in the United States: Provided, 
That when adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet 
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis, the Secretary of 
the service responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction 
on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the Committees on 
Appropriations that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8115A. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, $11,200,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense and shall be available only for transfer to the 
United States Coast Guard for a 2.6 percent pay increase for uniformed 
members.
    Sec. 8116. Such additional sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
1995 pay raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed 
within the levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 8117. After April 15, 1995, none of the funds provided in this 
Act may be obligated for payment on new contracts on which allowable 
costs charged to the government include payments for individual 
compensation at a rate in excess of $250,000 per year.
    Sec. 8118. None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
reduce the authorized positions for military (civilian) technicians of 
the Army National Guard, the Air National Guard, Army Reserve and Air 
Force Reserve for the purpose of applying any administratively imposed 
civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military (civilian) 
technicians, unless such reductions are a direct result of a reduction 
in military force structure: Provided, That the Department of Defense 
shall prepare and submit to the Congressional defense committees a 
report on reductions of civilian technicians which may be required to 
align civilian technician positions with force structure changes in the 
Reserve component.
    Sec. 8119. During the current fiscal year and hereafter, the 
Department of State and the Department of Defense are authorized to 
provide interagency courier service on a non-reimbursable basis.
    Sec. 8120. None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the 
Department of the Army may be obligated for procurement of 120mm 
mortars or 120mm mortar ammunition manufactured outside of the United 
States.
    Sec. 8121. (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
study of the receipt of benefits under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) by the members of the Armed Forces. The study 
shall include the following elements:
        (1) The number of members of the Armed Forces who are eligible 
    to receive benefits under that Act.
        (2) The number of such members who receive benefits under that 
    Act.
        (3) The location by State and region of the members referred to 
    in paragraphs (1) and (2).
        (4) An estimate of the cost of raising the rate of basic pay of 
    members of the Armed Forces to a rate at which such members would 
    no longer be eligible to receive benefits under that Act.
    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
study required under subsection (b) not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8122. (a) The Secretary of Defense shall submit, on a 
quarterly basis, a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
setting forth all costs (including incremental costs) incurred by the 
Department of Defense during the preceding quarter in implementing or 
supporting resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, 
including any such resolution calling for international sanctions, 
international peacekeeping operations, and humanitarian missions 
undertaken by the Department of Defense. The quarterly report shall 
include an aggregate of all such Department of Defense costs by 
operation or mission.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall detail in the quarterly reports 
all efforts made to seek credit against past United Nations 
expenditures and all efforts made to seek compensation from the United 
Nations for costs incurred by the Department of Defense in implementing 
and supporting United Nations activities.
    (c) As used in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional 
committees'' means--
        (1) the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate;
        (2) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8123. During the current fiscal year, funds appropriated in 
this Act are available to compensate members of the National Guard for 
duty performed pursuant to a plan submitted by a Governor of a State 
and approved by the Secretary of Defense under section 112 of title 32, 
United States Code: Provided, That during the performance of such duty, 
the members of the National Guard shall be under State command and 
control: Provided further, That such duty shall be treated as full-time 
National Guard duty for purposes of sections 3686(2) and 8686(2) of 
title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 8124. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS CONCERNING THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that:
        (1) In the spring of 1990, Bulgaria held its first round-table 
    discussions and held its first free, democratic elections in June 
    1990;
        (2) In August 1990, the Bulgarian Grand National Assembly 
    elected Dr. Zhelyu Zhelev as President of the Republic;
        (3) On July 12, 1991 the Parliament of Bulgaria adopted the new 
    Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which proclaims that 
    Bulgaria is governed by the rule of law;
        (4) In addition, the Bulgarian Constitution establishes the 
    principles of a market economy in Bulgaria, including Article 17 
    which guarantees and protects the right to property and inheritance 
    and proclaims the inviolability of private property, and Article 19 
    which states that the economy of Bulgaria is based on free economic 
    enterprise;
        (5) In October 1991, Bulgaria held its second parliamentary 
    elections;
        (6) Since 1990, the Bulgarian Parliament has passed more than 
    220 laws establishing legal protections for a free market economy 
    including the Law on Land Ownership, the Law on the Protection of 
    Competition, the Law on Commerce, the Law on Privatization, the Law 
    on Accounting and the Law on Banking;
        (7) The Bulgarian private sector has grown from 5 percent of 
    GNP in 1990 to 22 percent of GNP in 1993, and by the end of 1993, 
    47 percent of Bulgarian farm land had been returned to its owners 
    prior to 1948;
        (8) In June 1990, Bulgaria established diplomatic relations 
    with NATO and on February 14, 1994, joined the Partnership for 
    Peace;
        (9) Since October 1991, the Bulgarian minister of defense has 
    been a civilian and this practice is scheduled to be 
    institutionalized when the Bulgarian Law on Armed Forces is adopted 
    in September 1994.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Therefore, it is the sense of the Congress 
that:
        (1) The Republic of Bulgaria is making swift and important 
    progress to join the West and should be strongly commended for its 
    efforts;
        (2) The Republic of Bulgaria is making significant progress 
    toward establishing democratic institutions, a free market economy, 
    civilian control of the armed forces and the rule of law;
        (3) As the President evaluates increased defense cooperation 
    with central and eastern Europe, Bulgaria's extensive reform 
    efforts should be given every possible consideration.
    Sec. 8125. Study of C-130s.--(a) Report.--Within six months of 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) 
shall recommend to the Secretary of Defense a master stationing plan 
for C-130 aircraft for the active and reserve components based on the 
National Military Strategy and current contingency plans of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff. The report shall include:
        (1) a review of existing Air Reserve Component C-130s; and
        (2) a master plan for basing future Air Reserve Component C-
    130s over the next twenty years.
    (b) Interim Reductions.--No reductions of primary authorized C-130 
aircraft (PAA) shall be permitted until after completion of the report.
    (c) Approval.--Within 2 months of receipt of the report from the 
Chairman of the JCS, the Secretary of Defense shall approve the final 
master stationing plan for C-130 aircraft and shall provide it to the 
congressional defense committees. The Secretary shall also provide the 
final report to the Air Force and to the National Guard Bureau for 
implementation.
    Sec. 8126. Funds appropriated for the Army by this Act may not be 
expended to deactivate or to take any action necessary to deactivate 
any Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit, or to reduce any such 
unit for the purpose of eventually deactivating that unit, unless the 
Secretary of the Army has determined that the unit has been placed in, 
and has been evaluated for a full evaluation period under, the 
Effective Management Program of the Army Cadet Command.

SEC. 8127. PREFERENCE FOR LOCAL AND SMALL BUSINESSES TO CARRY OUT 
              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AND REMEDIATION OF KAHO'OLAWE 
              ISLAND, HAWAII.

    (a) Preference Required.--In entering into contracts with private 
entities to carry out environmental restoration and remediation of 
Kaho'olawe Island, Hawaii, and the waters surrounding that island, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall, to the maximum extent practicable, give a 
preference to small business concerns and small disadvantaged business 
concerns located in the State of Hawaii. In giving the preference, the 
Secretary shall give especial preference to businesses owned by Native 
Hawaiians.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``small business concern'' means a business 
    concern meeting the requirements of section 3 of the Small Business 
    Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
        (2) The term ``small disadvantaged business concern'' means the 
    business concerns referred to in section 7(d)(1) of such Act (15 
    U.S.C. 637(d)(1)).
        (3) The term ``Native Hawaiian'' means any individual who is a 
    descendent of the aboriginal people who, prior to 1778, occupied 
    and exercised sovereignty in the area that now comprises the State 
    of Hawaii.
    Sec. 8128. The Secretary of Defense shall report to the 
congressional defense committees the existing standards for the 
provision of concurrent retirement and disability benefits to members 
of the Armed Forces with not less than twenty years of service: 
Provided, That this evaluation will address the number of individuals 
retired from the Armed Forces under conditions of total disability; the 
cost of extending concurrent benefits to these individuals; the 
comparability of the policy to Office of Personnel Management 
guidelines for civilian Federal employees; the comparability of this 
policy to prevailing private sector standards; the number of 
individuals potentially eligible for concurrent benefits who now 
receive other forms of Federal assistance and the cost of that 
assistance: Provided further, That the Secretary shall submit this 
report not later than March 15, 1995.

SEC. 8129. IMPLEMENTATION OF AGREEMENT ON THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE ARMY 
              NATIONAL GUARD AND THE ARMY RESERVE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the implementation of the off-
site agreement may result in the loss to the Armed Forces of military 
personnel who have significant military experience and expertise.
    (b) Reassignment of Members.--(1) To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary of the Army shall ensure that members of the 
Armed Forces who would otherwise be separated from service as a result 
of the deactivation of military units of the Army National Guard and 
the Army Reserve under the off-site agreement be reassigned instead to 
units that are not being deactivated.
    (2) The reassignment of a member under paragraph (1) shall not 
affect the grade or rank in grade of the member.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than April 15 and October 15 of each 
calendar year while the off-site agreement is in effect, the Secretary 
of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
semi-annual report on the number of members of the Armed Forces who 
were reassigned under subsection (b)(1) during the preceding six 
months.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``congressional defense committees'' means the 
    Committees on Armed Services and the Committees on Appropriations 
    of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``off-site agreement'' means the agreement on the 
    restructuring of the Army National Guard and the Army Reserve.
    Sec. 8130. Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and 
maintenance of the Military Departments, Unified and Specified Commands 
and Defense Agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay, 
allowances and other expenses which would otherwise be incurred against 
appropriations for the National Guard and Reserve when members of the 
National Guard and Reserve provide intelligence support to Unified 
Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence Activities, including 
the activities and programs included within the General Defense 
Intelligence Program and the Consolidated Cryptologic Program: 
Provided, That nothing in this section authorizes deviation from 
established Reserve and National Guard personnel and training 
procedures.
    Sec. 8131. (a) No project for the construction of any facility, or 
improvement to any facility, having an estimated Federal cost in excess 
of $300,000, may be undertaken in any fiscal year unless specifically 
identified as a separate item in the President's annual fiscal year 
budget request or otherwise specifically authorized and appropriated if 
such facility or improvement would be used primarily by personnel of 
the intelligence community.
    (b) As used in this section, the term ``intelligence community'' 
has the same meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).
    Sec. 8132. The Secretary of Defense, from within funds provided in 
this Act, may obligate not to exceed $75,000 to fulfill Department of 
Defense obligations under the Educational Loan Repayment Programs for 
State-sponsored student loan programs not covered under title IV, part 
B or E of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (title 20 U.S.C. 1071-1087).
    Sec. 8133. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall obligate, within sixty days of this Act 
becoming law, not less than $39,750,000 from the funds appropriated in 
this Act or previous Acts under the heading ``Aircraft Procurement, 
Navy'', solely to procure, integrate, and install, on an urgent basis, 
AN/USH-42 mission recorders modified for use in S-3B aircraft.
    Sec. 8134. Subparagraph (B) of section 7306(d)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, shall not apply with respect to the transfer by the 
Secretary of the Navy under section 7306(a) of such title of the 
aircraft carrier U.S.S. Saratoga (CV-60) to the U.S.S. Saratoga Museum 
Foundation, Inc., a foundation organized under the laws of the State of 
Florida.


    RESTRICTION ON FUNDING UNITED STATES MILITARY PERSONNEL IN SOMALIA

    Sec. 8135. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
for the continuous presence in Somalia of United States military 
personnel, except for the protection of United States personnel, after 
September 30, 1994.

SEC. 8136. SENATE ADVICE AND CONSENT TO CHANGES IN OBLIGATIONS UNDER 
              THE CFE TREATY.

    (a) Findings.--
        (1) On November 25, 1991, the Senate gave its advice and 
    consent to ratification of the CFE Treaty.
        (2) The President would need to seek the Senate's advice and 
    consent to any change in obligation of the States parties under the 
    CFE Treaty, unless such change were a minor matter of an 
    administrative or technical nature.
        (3) A change in the allowed holdings of treaty limited 
    equipment in the area of application or any geographic sub-zone of 
    the area of application would constitute a change in obligation for 
    which the Senate's advice and consent would be required.
    (b) Reaffirmation of Senate's Treaty-Making Powers.--The President 
shall submit for the Senate's advice and consent any change in the 
obligations of any State party under the CFE Treaty, unless such change 
is a minor matter of an administrative or technical nature.
    (c) CFE Treaty Defined.--For the purpose of this section, the CFE 
Treaty means the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, signed 
in Paris on November 19, 1990, and associated protocols.
    Sec. 8137. (a)(1) The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan for 
establishing and implementing a requirement for disbursing officials of 
the Department of Defense to match disbursements to particular 
obligations before making the disbursements. The Secretary shall 
transmit the plan to Congress not later than PMarch 1, 1995.
    (2) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall review 
the plan and submit the Inspector General's independent assessment of 
the plan to the congressional defense committees.
    (b)(1) Not later than July 1, 1995, the Secretary of Defense shall 
require that each disbursement by the Department of Defense in an 
amount in excess of $5,000,000 be matched to a particular obligation 
before the disbursement is made.
    (2) Not later than October 1, 1995, the Secretary of Defense shall 
require that each disbursement by the Department of Defense in an 
amount in excess of $1,000,000 be matched to a particular obligation 
before the disbursement is made.
    (c) The Secretary shall ensure that a disbursement in excess of the 
threshold amount applicable under subsection (b) is not divided into 
multiple disbursements of less than that amount for the purpose of 
avoiding the applicability of such subsection to that disbursement.
    (d) The Secretary of Defense may waive a requirement for advance 
matching of a disbursement of the Department of Defense with a 
particular obligation in the case of (1) a disbursement involving 
deployed forces, (2) a disbursement for an operation in a war declared 
by Congress or a national emergency declared by the President or 
Congress, or (3) a disbursement under any other circumstances for which 
the waiver is necessary in the national security interests of the 
United States, as determined by the Secretary and certified by the 
Secretary to the congressional defense committees.
    (e) This section shall not be construed to limit the authority of 
the Secretary of Defense to require that a disbursement not in excess 
of the amount applicable under subsection (b) be matched to a 
particular obligation before the disbursement is made.

SEC. 8138. SENSE OF SENATE ON NEGOTIATION OF LIMITATIONS ON NUCLEAR 
              WEAPONS TESTING.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate finds the following:
        (1) On January 25, 1994, the United States joined with 37 other 
    nations to begin negotiations for a comprehensive treaty to ban 
    permanently all nuclear weapons testing.
        (2) On March 14, 1994, the President decided to extend the 
    current United States nuclear testing moratorium at least through 
    September 1995.
        (3) Germany and the Group of 21 Non-Aligned States have 
    publicly stated their support for the completion of a comprehensive 
    nuclear test ban treaty by 1995.
        (4) On June 6, 1994, the People's Republic of China conducted 
    its second nuclear weapons test explosion since the United States, 
    Russia, and France initiated their current nuclear test moratoria.
        (5) On September 7, 1994, the third and final test ban 
    negotiating session of the year will end.
        (6) While some progress toward a comprehensive nuclear test ban 
    treaty has been achieved, there is little chance that an agreement 
    will be reached before April 1995 at the current rate of 
    negotiation.
        (7) The United States is seeking to extend indefinitely the 
    Non-Proliferation Treaty at the April 1995 Extension Conference.
        (8) Conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty could 
    contribute toward successful negotiations to extend the Non-
    Proliferation Treaty.
        (9) Agreements to eliminate nuclear testing and control the 
    spread of nuclear weapons could contribute to national security of 
    the United States, its allies, and other nations around the world.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--The Senate--
        (1) applauds the President for maintaining the United States 
    nuclear testing moratorium and for supporting the negotiation of a 
    comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty;
        (2) encourages the People's Republic of China and all other 
    nuclear powers to refrain from conducting nuclear explosions prior 
    to conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty; and
        (3) urges the President and the other nuclear powers to take 
    measures necessary to achieve a multilateral comprehensive nuclear 
    test ban treaty before the Non-Proliferation Treaty Extension 
    Conference.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Non-
Proliferation Treaty'' means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow on July 1, 1968 
(21 U.S.T. 483).
    Sec. 8139. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of a military department may enter into a contract for use of 
commercial or proprietary credit card services for augmenting or 
replacing any in-house account receivable system in use by a 
nonappropriated fund instrumentality under the jurisdiction of that 
Secretary if the Secretary determines that such contract is in the best 
interest of that department: Provided, That any Department of Defense 
initiative to contract for credit card services shall require full and 
open competitive procedures and be based on the program concepts 
determined by the military department(s) morale, welfare and recreation 
(MWR) and service division(s) affected by such initiative.
    Sec. 8140. It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of 
Defense should name the new research facility under construction to 
house the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, in honor of Senator 
Daniel K. Inouye.
    Sec. 8141. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
funds made available by this Act, the Department of Defense shall pay 
the appropriate amount of Aviation Continuation Pay authorized by 37 
U.S.C. 301(b) to the survivors of persons who have signed reenlistment 
contracts on or after January 1, 1994, but whose service connected 
death predates the effective date of such reenlistment contract by less 
than 14 days.
    Sec. 8142. It is the sense of the Congress that not later than 90 
days after the enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense shall 
submit all documents pertaining to any and all Department of Defense 
chemical and biological warfare tests involving the use of zinc cadmium 
sulfide conducted anywhere in the United States.
    Sec. 8143. None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
obligated or expended for the relocation or reduction of the functions 
specified in the 1991 and 1993 Reports to the President of the Defense 
Base Closure and Realignment Commission to be maintained at Fort 
Chaffee, Arkansas, including all civilian management, support personnel 
and operations associated with these functions that were in existence 
as of September 30, 1994.
    Sec. 8144. All refunds or other amounts collected in the 
administration of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the 
Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) shall be credited to current year 
appropriations.

SEC. 8145. SENSE OF THE SENATE CONCERNING LOWRY AFB.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
        (1) in issuing any lease, permit or deed of conveyance for use 
    to assist the homeless under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
    Assistance Act concerning Lowry Air Force Base, Colorado, the 
    Secretary of Health and Human Services, representatives of the city 
    of Denver, Colorado, representatives of the city of Aurora, 
    Colorado and representatives of homeless providers whose 
    applications have been approved by the Secretary of Health and 
    Human Services should jointly determine that such use is reasonable 
    under the redevelopment plan for Lowry Air Force Base, Colorado; 
    and
        (2) the Department of Defense and the Department of Health and 
    Human Services, in coordination with the appropriate committees of 
    Congress and appropriate State and local authorities, should 
    develop a reform proposal to address the many difficulties created 
    for local communities by existing laws relating to the loan, lease 
    or conveyance for use of government property during the base 
    closure process.
    Sec. 8146. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act for a 
second low rate initial production (LRIP) contract or contract option 
for the Hunter unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) system may be obligated 
until the Department of Defense certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that--
        (1) two Hunter UAV systems have been accepted by the Government 
    using the currently defined Acceptance Test Procedure;
        (2) the operational tempo (OPTEMPO) phase of the risk reduction 
    program has been successfully completed; and
        (3) the flight test portion of the first article test (FAT) has 
    been successfully completed.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be obligated to 
procure more than four Hunter UAV systems until the Logistics Support 
Analysis (LSA) report has been submitted to the relevant committees of 
Congress and the Department of Defense has certified to these 
committees that the LSA is sufficient to fully support fielding of the 
Hunter UAV.
    Sec. 8147. Of the funds appropriated by title VIII of Public Law 
102-396 (106 Stat. 1899) for defense reinvestment for economic growth, 
the unobligated balance of the funds made available by such title for 
military service members occupational conversion and training shall 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 1995.
    Sec. 8148. Under the heading ``Humanitarian Assistance'' in title 
II of this Act, on line one, strike ``For transportation for'' and 
insert in lieu thereof ``For'': Provided, That the proviso contained 
under this heading in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for 
1994 (Public Law 103-139) is hereby repealed.
    Sec. 8149. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
transferred to or obligated from the Pentagon Reservation Maintenance 
Revolving Fund, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies that the 
total cost for the planning design, construction and installation of 
equipment for the renovation of the Pentagon Reservation will not 
exceed $1,218,000,000.
    Sec. 8150. In addition to amounts appropriated elsewhere in this 
Act to the Department of Defense, $14,200,000 is authorized and 
appropriated only for the Utility Reconfiguration Project at the 
Philadelphia Naval Complex.
    Sec. 8151. Notwithstanding section 303(a) (5) and (6) of the 
Defense Production Act, or any other provision of law, the Department 
of Defense will negotiate and award an appropriate contract to the sole 
domestic producer of nuclear steam generator tubing for aircraft 
carriers, in an amount not to exceed $17,500,000 from funds provided in 
Public Law 103-139 for Defense Production Act Purchases.
    Sec. 8152. (a) Of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'' in title IV of 
this Act, $3,900,000 shall be made available only for the Joint Primary 
Aircraft Training System (JPATS) program.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'' in title IV of this Act, 
$37,057,000 shall be made available only for the JPATS program.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Aircraft 
Procurement, Air Force'' in title III of this Act, $93,265,000 shall be 
made available only for the JPATS program.
    Sec. 8153. No funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated or 
expended during fiscal year 1995 for retiring, or preparing to retire, 
any B-52H, B-1B, or F-111 bomber aircraft.
    Sec. 8154. (a) None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug 
activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the 
United States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence Agency 
for any fiscal year for drug interdiction and counter-drug activities 
may be transferred to any other department or agency of the United 
States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    Sec. 8155. Amendments to Public Law 103-317 (including 
rescission).--(a) Of the funds appropriated under the heading, 
``Contributions to International Organizations'' in Public Law 103-317, 
$4,561,000 are rescinded. In addition, under this heading in said 
Public Law, delete ``, of which not to exceed $4,000,000 is available 
to pay arrearages, the payment of which'' and substitute ``: Provided, 
That any payment of arrearages made from these funds''.
    (b) Under the heading, ``Payment to the Asia Foundation'' in Public 
Law 103-317, delete ``$10,000,000'' and substitute ``$15,000,000''.
    (c) Under the heading ``Securities and Exchange Commission'', 
``Salaries and Expenses'', in Public Law 103-317, insert the following:
    ``For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', 
$192,000,000: Provided, That such amount is available only upon 
enactment of legislation that continues for fiscal year 1995 the rate 
of fees collected under section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 
U.S.C. 77f(b)), as provided by Public Law 103-121 (107 Stat. 1168), at 
1/29th of one percent and that deposits the difference in such fees 
(between 1/50th of one percent and 1/29th of one percent) as an 
offsetting collection to this appropriation: Provided further, That the 
total amount appropriated for fiscal year 1995 under this heading shall 
be reduced as such fees are deposited to this appropriation so as to 
result in a final total fiscal year 1995 appropriation from the General 
Fund estimated at not more than $74,856,000: Provided further, That any 
such fees collected in excess of $192,000,000 in fiscal year 1995 shall 
remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 1995.''.
    Sec. 8156. Of the amounts provided in title III of this Act, 
$304,900,000 are permanently canceled: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall allocate the amount of budgetary resources canceled by 
this section in an equal percentage to each program, project and 
activity funded in title III of this Act.


                               (rescission)

    Sec. 8157. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following account in the specified amount:
        ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 1993/1995'', $200,000,000.


                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8158. Of the funds provided in title II of this Act under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $500,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the following accounts in the specified amounts:
        ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $140,000,000;
        ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $140,000,000;
        ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $80,000,000;
        ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $140,000,000.
    Titles I through VIII of this Act may be cited as the ``Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act, 1995''.

         TITLE IX--FISCAL YEAR 1994 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATION

    The following sum is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1994, namely:

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                            Management Funds


                         emergency response fund

    For the ``Emergency Response Fund'', $299,300,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to reimburse other appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available during fiscal year 1994 for costs 
incurred before the date of the enactment of this Act for emergency 
relief for Rwanda and for emergency migrant processing and safe haven 
costs in or around Cuba and may be used to reimburse other 
appropriations available to the Department of Defense for costs 
incurred for the same purposes: Provided further, That the entire 
amount under this heading is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That any change in the United States mission in Rwanda from 
one of strict refugee relief to security, peace-enforcing, or nation-
building or any other substantive role shall not be implemented without 
the further P
 approval of the Congress: Provided further, That no funds provided in 
this Act are available for United States military participation to 
continue Operation Support Hope in or around Rwanda after October 7, 
1994, except for any action that is necessary to protect the lives of 
United States citizens.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.