[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2492 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2492
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia 
and other activities chargeable in whole or in part against the revenues 
of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and for 
other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                     FISCAL YEAR 1994 APPROPRIATIONS

               Federal Payment to the District of Columbia

    For payment to the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1994, $630,603,000, as authorized by section 502(a) of the 
District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization 
Act, Public Law 93-198, as amended (D.C. Code, sec. 47-3406.1).

                Federal Contribution to Retirement Funds

    For the Federal contribution to the Police Officers and Fire 
Fighters', Teachers', and Judges' Retirement Funds, as authorized by the 
District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act, approved November 17, 1979 
(93 Stat. 866; Public Law 96-122), $52,070,000, of which $2,000,000 
shall not be available for obligation until September 30, 1994 and shall 
not be expended prior to October 1, 1994.

          Federal Contribution for Crime and Youth Initiatives

  For a Federal contribution for crime and youth initiatives in the 
District of Columbia, $17,327,000.

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $115,888,000: Provided, That not 
to exceed $2,500 for the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council 
of the District of Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall 
be available from this appropriation for expenditures for official 
purposes: Provided further, That any program fees collected from the 
issuance of debt shall be available for the payment of expenses of the 
debt management program of the District of Columbia: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, there is hereby 
appropriated from the earnings of the applicable retirement funds 
$10,801,000 to pay legal, management, investment, and other fees and 
administrative expenses of the District of Columbia Retirement Board: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia Retirement Board shall 
provide to the Congress and to the Council of the District of Columbia a 
quarterly report of the allocations of charges by fund and of 
expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for transmittal to 
the Council of the District of Columbia, an item accounting of the 
planned use of appropriated funds in time for each annual budget 
submission and the actual use of such funds in time for each annual 
audited financial report: Provided further, That no revenues from 
Federal sources shall be used to support the operations or activities of 
the Statehood Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided 
further, That the District of Columbia shall identify the sources of 
funding for Admission to Statehood from its own locally-generated 
revenues.

                   Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $87,293,000: Provided, That the 
District of Columbia Housing Finance Agency, established by section 201 
of the District of Columbia Housing Finance Agency Act, effective March 
3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-135; D.C. Code, sec. 45-2111), based upon its 
capability of repayments as determined each year by the Council of the 
District of Columbia from the Housing Finance Agency's annual audited 
financial statements to the Council of the District of Columbia, shall 
repay to the general fund an amount equal to the appropriated 
administrative costs plus interest at a rate of four percent per annum 
for a term of 15 years, with a deferral of payments for the first three 
years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the foregoing provision, 
the obligation to repay all or part of the amounts due shall be subject 
to the rights of the owners of any bonds or notes issued by the Housing 
Finance Agency and shall be repaid to the District of Columbia 
government only from available operating revenues of the Housing Finance 
Agency that are in excess of the amounts required for debt service, 
reserve funds, and operating expenses: Provided further, That upon 
commencement of the debt service payments, such payments shall be 
deposited into the general fund of the District of Columbia.

                        Public Safety and Justice


                       (including transfer of funds)

    Public safety and justice, including purchase of 135 passenger-
carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for police-type 
use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the general purchase 
price limitation for the current fiscal year, $892,156,000: Provided, 
That the Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to replace not to 
exceed 25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Fire Department of the 
District of Columbia is authorized to replace not to exceed five 
passenger-carrying vehicles annually whenever the cost of repair to any 
damaged vehicle exceeds three-fourths of the cost of the replacement: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall be available from 
this appropriation for the Chief of Police for the prevention and 
detection of crime: Provided further, That the Metropolitan Police 
Department shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate on efforts to increase efficiency 
and improve the professionalism in the department: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or Mayor's Order 86-45, 
issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan Police Department's delegated 
small purchase authority shall be $500,000: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government may not require the Metropolitan Police 
Department to submit to any other procurement review process, or to 
obtain the approval of or be restricted in any manner by any official or 
employee of the District of Columbia government, for purchases that do 
not exceed $500,000: Provided further, That funds appropriated for 
expenses under the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act, approved 
September 3, 1974 (88 Stat. 1090; Public Law 93-412; D.C. Code, sec. 11-
2601 et seq.), for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, shall be 
available for obligations incurred under the Act in each fiscal year 
since inception in fiscal year 1975: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated for expenses under the District of Columbia Neglect 
Representation Equity Act of 1984, effective March 13, 1985 (D.C. Law 5-
129; D.C. Code, sec. 16-2304), for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1994, shall be available for obligations incurred under the Act in each 
fiscal year since inception in fiscal year 1985: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated for expenses under the District of Columbia 
Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act 
of 1986, effective February 27, 1987 (D.C. Law 6-204; D.C. Code, sec. 
21-2060), for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, shall be 
available for obligations incurred under the Act in each fiscal year 
since inception in fiscal year 1989: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $1,500 for the Chief Judge of the District of Columbia Court of 
Appeals, $1,500 for the Chief Judge of the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia, and $1,500 for the Executive Officer of the 
District of Columbia Courts shall be available from this appropriation 
for official purposes: Provided further, That the District of Columbia 
shall operate and maintain a free, 24-hour telephone information service 
whereby residents of the area surrounding Lorton prison in Fairfax 
County, Virginia, can promptly obtain information from District of 
Columbia government officials on all disturbances at the prison, 
including escapes, fires, riots, and similar incidents: Provided 
further, That the District of Columbia government shall also take steps 
to publicize the availability of the 24-hour telephone information 
service among the residents of the area surrounding the Lorton prison: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $100,000 of this appropriation 
shall be used to reimburse Fairfax County, Virginia, and Prince William 
County, Virginia, for expenses incurred by the counties during the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, in relation to the Lorton prison 
complex: Provided further, That such reimbursements shall be paid in all 
instances in which the District requests the counties to provide police, 
fire, rescue, and related services to help deal with escapes, riots, and 
similar disturbances involving the prison: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act may be used to implement any staffing 
plan for the District of Columbia Fire Department that includes the 
elimination of any positions for Administrative Assistants to the 
Battalion Fire Chiefs of the Fire Fighting Division of the Department: 
Provided further, That in addition to the $892,156,000 appropriated 
under this heading, an additional $1,025,000 and 11 full-time equivalent 
positions shall be transferred from the Department of Administrative 
Services to the District of Columbia Court System for janitorial 
services, pest control, window washing, trash collection and removal, 
and landscaping: Provided further, That the Mayor shall reimburse the 
District of Columbia National Guard for expenses incurred in connection 
with services that are performed in emergencies by the National Guard in 
a militia status and are requested by the Mayor, in amounts that shall 
be jointly determined and certified as due and payable for these 
services by the Mayor and the Commanding General of the District of 
Columbia National Guard: Provided further, That such sums as may be 
necessary for reimbursement to the District of Columbia National Guard 
under the preceding proviso shall be available from this appropriation, 
and the availability of the sums shall be deemed as constituting payment 
in advance for the emergency services involved: Provided further, That 
the Mayor shall promulgate all necessary rules and regulations to 
provide that no police officer, firefighter, or correctional officer 
shall be permitted to work for more than ten (10) hours of overtime 
excluding court time in any one pay period, without the written approval 
of the Chief of Police, Chief of the Fire Department, or Director of the 
Department of Corrections: Provided further, That such approval shall 
clearly state specific reasons as to why such overtime was necessary.

                         Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $711,742,000, to be allocated as follows: 
$517,682,000 for the public schools of the District of Columbia; 
$98,600,000 shall be allocated for the District of Columbia Teachers' 
Retirement Fund; $65,739,000 for the University of the District of 
Columbia; $21,260,000 for the Public Library, of which $200,000 shall be 
transferred to the Children's Museum; $3,474,000 for the Commission on 
the Arts and Humanities; $4,500,000 for the District of Columbia School 
of Law; and $487,000 for the Education Licensure Commission: Provided, 
That the public schools of the District of Columbia are authorized to 
accept not to exceed 31 motor vehicles for exclusive use in the driver 
education program: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the 
Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the President of the University of 
the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall be 
available from this appropriation for expenditures for official 
purposes: Provided further, That no later than December 31, 1993, the 
Board of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia shall 
implement resident and nonresident tuition rate increases of not less 
than 20 percent of the rates in effect on April 1, 1993: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall not be available to subsidize the 
education of nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the University 
of the District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of the 
University of the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1994, a tuition rate schedule that will establish 
the tuition rate for nonresident students at a level no lower than the 
nonresident tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of 
higher education in the metropolitan area.

                         Human Support Services

    Human support services, $882,359,000: Provided, That $20,905,000 of 
this appropriation, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available solely for District of Columbia employees' disability 
compensation: Provided further, That the District shall not provide free 
government services such as water, sewer, solid waste disposal or 
collection, utilities, maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any 
legally constituted private nonprofit organization (as defined in 
section 411(5) of Public Law 100-77, approved July 22, 1987) providing 
emergency shelter services in the District, if the District would not be 
qualified to receive reimbursement pursuant to the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act, approved July 22, 1987 (101 Stat. 485; Public 
Law 100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle for 
use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by the 
Council of the District of Columbia and purchase of passenger-carrying 
vehicles for replacement only, $206,191,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for collecting ashes or 
miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business.

                    Washington Convention Center Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Fund, $12,850,000.

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For reimbursement to the United States of funds loaned in compliance 
with An Act to provide for the establishment of a modern, adequate, and 
efficient hospital center in the District of Columbia, approved August 
7, 1946 (60 Stat. 896; Public Law 79-648); section 1 of An Act to 
authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to borrow funds 
for capital improvement programs and to amend provisions of law relating 
to Federal Government participation in meeting costs of maintaining the 
Nation's Capital City, approved June 6, 1958 (72 Stat. 183; Public Law 
85-451; D.C. Code, sec. 9-219); section 4 of An Act to authorize the 
Commissioners of the District of Columbia to plan, construct, operate, 
and maintain a sanitary sewer to connect the Dulles International 
Airport with the District of Columbia system, approved June 12, 1960 (74 
Stat. 211; Public Law 86-515); sections 723 and 743(f) of the District 
of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, 
approved December 24, 1973, as amended (87 Stat. 821; Public Law 93-198; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-321, note; 91 Stat. 1156; Public Law 95-131; D.C. 
Code, sec. 9-219, note), including interest as required thereby, 
$306,264,000.

                 Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $38,337,000, as authorized 
by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Self-Government and 
Governmental Reorganization Act, approved Decem- ber 24, 1973, as 
amended (105 Stat. 540; Public Law 102-106; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321(a)).

                       Optical and Dental Benefits

    For optical and dental costs for nonunion employees, $3,323,000.

                             Pay Adjustment

    For pay increases and related costs, to be transferred by the Mayor 
of the District of Columbia within the various appropriation headings in 
this Act for fiscal year 1994 from which employees are properly payable, 
$81,680,000.

                              Severance Pay

    For severance pay to employees who are involuntarily separated from 
service as a result of reductions-in-force or reorganizations, 
$2,202,000.

                  D.C. General Hospital Deficit Payment

    For the purpose of reimbursing the General Fund for costs incurred 
for the operation of the D.C. General Hospital pursuant to D.C. Law 1-
134, the D.C. General Hospital Commission Act of 1977, $10,000,000.

                           Energy Adjustments

    The Mayor shall reduce appropriations and expenditures for energy 
costs in the amount of $482,000 within one or several of the various 
appropriation headings in this Act.

                       Communications Adjustments

    The Mayor shall reduce appropriations and expenditures for 
communications costs in the amount of $158,000 within one or several of 
the various appropriation headings in this Act.

                    Contractual Services Adjustments

    The Mayor shall reduce contractual services appropriations and 
expenditures within object class 40 in the amount of $1,500,000 within 
one or several of the various appropriation headings in this Act: 
Provided, That no reductions shall be made to agencies not under the 
direct control of the Mayor or to the Department of Human Services.

                            Cash Reserve Fund

    For the purpose of a cash reserve fund to replenish the consolidated 
cash balances of the District of Columbia, $3,957,000.

                             Capital Outlay

    For construction projects, $108,743,000, as authorized by An Act 
authorizing the laying of water mains and service sewers in the District 
of Columbia, the levying of assessments therefor, and for other 
purposes, approved April 22, 1904 (33 Stat. 244; Public Law 58-140; D.C. 
Code, secs. 43-1512 through 43-1519); the District of Columbia Public 
Works Act of 1954, approved May 18, 1954 (68 Stat. 101; Public Law 83-
364); An Act to authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia 
to borrow funds for capital improvement programs and to amend provisions 
of law relating to Federal Government participation in meeting costs of 
maintaining the Nation's Capital City, approved June 6, 1958 (72 Stat. 
183; Public Law 85-451; D.C. Code, secs. 9-219 and 47-3402); section 
3(g) of the District of Columbia Motor Vehicle Parking Facility Act of 
1942, approved August 20, 1958 (72 Stat. 686; Public Law 85-692; D.C. 
Code, sec. 40-805(7)); and the National Capital Transportation Act of 
1969, approved December 9, 1969 (83 Stat. 320; Public Law 91-143; D.C. 
Code, secs. 1-2451, 1-2452, 1-2454, 1-2456, and 1-2457); including 
acquisition of sites, preparation of plans and specifications, 
conducting preliminary surveys, erection of structures, including 
building improvement and alteration and treatment of grounds, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $10,577,883 shall be reduced 
from the cumulative amount available for project management and 
$4,463,301 shall be available for design by the Director of the 
Department of Public Works or by contract for architectural engineering 
services, as may be determined by the Mayor: Provided further, That 
funds for use of each capital project implementing agency shall be 
managed and controlled in accordance with all procedures and limitations 
established under the Financial Management System: Provided further, 
That all funds provided by this appropriation title shall be available 
only for the specific projects and purposes intended: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding the foregoing, all authorizations for capital 
outlay projects, except those projects covered by the first sentence of 
section 23(a) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968, approved August 
23, 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 90-495; D.C. Code, sec. 7-134, note), 
for which funds are provided by this appropriation title, shall expire 
on September 30, 1995, except authorizations for projects as to which 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to Septem- ber 30, 
1995: Provided further, That upon expiration of any such project 
authorization the funds provided herein for the project shall lapse: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia government shall 
transmit to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House 
Committee on the District of Columbia, and the Senate Committee on 
Governmental Affairs, no later than April 15, 1994, a proposed plan 
providing for the financing of the capital rehabilitation and 
revitalization of the medical infrastructure within the District of 
Columbia: Provided further, That this plan shall include how the capital 
needs of all hospitals will be addressed: Provided further, That this 
plan shall specifically address the currently authorized George 
Washington University project as part of the overall plan: Provided 
further, That once the Fish and Wildlife Service study on the fishway at 
Little Falls Dam is complete the Washington Aqueduct may use up to 
$500,000 of funds provided to it under this heading to initiate 
construction of modifications to the Little Falls Dam facility for the 
purpose of environmental restoration and improvements by providing 
passage for anadromous fish on the Potomac River.

                     Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund

    For the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund, $240,929,000, of which 
$40,438,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the debt service fund 
for repayment of loans and interest incurred for capital improvement 
projects.
    For construction projects, $29,087,000, as authorized by An Act 
authorizing the laying of water mains and service sewers in the District 
of Columbia, the levying of assessments therefor, and for other 
purposes, approved April 22, 1904 (33 Stat. 244; Public Law 58-140; D.C. 
Code, sec. 43-1512 et seq.): Provided, That the requirements and 
restrictions that are applicable to general fund capital improvement 
projects and set forth in this Act under the Capital Outlay 
appropriation title shall apply to projects approved under this 
appropriation title.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established by 
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1982, approved December 4, 1981 (95 Stat. 1174, 1175; 
Public Law 97-91), as amended, for the purpose of implementing the Law 
to Legalize Lotteries, Daily Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for 
Charitable Purposes in the District of Columbia, effective March 10, 
1981 (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, secs. 2-2501 et seq. and 22-1516 et 
seq.), $7,168,000, to be derived from non-Federal District of Columbia 
revenues: Provided, That the District of Columbia shall identify the 
source of funding for this appropriation title from the District's own 
locally-generated revenues: Provided further, That no revenues from 
Federal sources shall be used to support the operations or activities of 
the Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board.

                    Cable Television Enterprise Fund

    For the Cable Television Enterprise Fund, established by the Cable 
Television Communications Act of 1981, effective October 22, 1983 (D.C. 
Law 5-36; D.C. Code, sec. 43-1801 et seq.), $2,353,000.

                              Starplex Fund

    For the Starplex Fund, an amount necessary for the expenses incurred 
by the Armory Board in the exercise of its powers granted by An Act To 
Establish a District of Columbia Armory Board, and for other purposes, 
approved June 4, 1948 (62 Stat. 339; D.C. Code, sec. 2-301 et seq.) and 
the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 1957, approved September 7, 1957 
(71 Stat. 619; Public Law 85-300; D.C. Code, sec. 2-321 et seq.) of 
which $1,742,000 shall be transferred to the general fund for the 
District of Columbia Courts and $35,000 shall be transferred to the 
Office of Cable Television: Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a 
budget for the Armory Board for the forthcoming fiscal year as required 
by section 442(b) of the District of Columbia Self-Government and 
Governmental Reorganization Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 
824; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301(b)).

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures 
are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, 
except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing 
Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 102. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all vouchers 
covering expenditures of appropriations contained in this Act shall be 
audited before payment by the designated certifying official and the 
vouchers as approved shall be paid by checks issued by the designated 
disbursing official.
    Sec. 103. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations in this Act shall be available, when 
authorized by the Mayor, for allowances for privately-owned automobiles 
and motorcycles used for the performance of official duties at rates 
established by the Mayor: Provided, That such rates shall not exceed the 
maximum prevailing rates for such vehicles as prescribed in the Federal 
Property Management Regulations 101-7 (Federal Travel Regulations).
    Sec. 105. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for expenses 
of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations concerned with 
the work of the District of Columbia government, when authorized by the 
Mayor: Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia and the 
District of Columbia Courts may expend such funds without authorization 
by the Mayor.
    Sec. 106. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided, That nothing contained in 
this section shall be construed as modifying or affecting the provisions 
of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the District of Columbia Income and 
Franchise Tax Act of 1947, approved March 31, 1956 (70 Stat. 78; Public 
Law 84-460; D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 107. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for the 
payment of public assistance without reference to the requirement of 
section 544 of the District of Columbia Public Assistance Act of 1982, 
effective April 6, 1982 (D.C. Law 4-101; D.C. Code, sec. 3-205.44), and 
for the non-Federal share of funds necessary to qualify for Federal 
assistance under the Juvenile Delinquency Prevention and Control Act of 
1968, approved July 31, 1968 (82 Stat. 462; Public Law 90-445; 42 U.S.C. 
3801 et seq.).
    Sec. 108. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 109. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be used 
to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 110. The annual budget for the District of Columbia government 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995, shall be transmitted to 
the Congress no later than April 15, 1994.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on the District of 
Columbia, the Subcommittee on General Services, Federalism, and the 
District of Columbia of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, 
and the Council of the District of Columbia, or their duly authorized 
representative: Provided, That none of the funds contained in this Act 
shall be made available to pay the salary of any employee of the 
District of Columbia government whose name and salary are not available 
for public inspection.
    Sec. 112. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977, 
effective September 23, 1977 (D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 113. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including boycott 
designed to support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
State legislature.
    Sec. 114. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowing and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 115. The Mayor shall not borrow any funds for capital projects 
unless the Mayor has obtained prior approval from the Council of the 
District of Columbia, by resolution, identifying the projects and 
amounts to be financed with such borrowings.
    Sec. 116. The Mayor shall not expend any moneys borrowed for capital 
projects for the operating expenses of the District of Columbia 
government.
    Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by reprogramming except pursuant to advance 
approval of the reprogramming granted according to the procedure set 
forth in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
(House Report No. 96-443), which accompanied the District of Columbia 
Appropriation Act, 1980, approved October 30, 1979 (93 Stat. 713; Public 
Law 96-93), as modified in House Report No. 98-265, and in accordance 
with the Reprogramming Policy Act of 1980, effective September 16, 1980 
(D.C. Law 3-100; D.C. Code, sec. 47-361 et seq.).
    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of the District of 
Columbia.
    Sec. 119. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to procure passenger automobiles as defined in the 
Automobile Fuel Efficiency Act of 1980, approved October 10, 1980 (94 
Stat. 1824; Public Law 96-425; 15 U.S.C. 2001(2)), with an Environmental 
Protection Agency estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 
miles per gallon: Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
security, emergency rescue, or armored vehicles.
    Sec. 120. (a) Notwithstanding section 422(7) of the District of 
Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, 
approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, 
sec. 1-242(7)), the City Administrator shall be paid, during any fiscal 
year, a salary at a rate established by the Mayor, not to exceed the 
rate established for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 
5315.
    (b) For purposes of applying any provision of law limiting the 
availability of funds for payment of salary or pay in any fiscal year, 
the highest rate of pay established by the Mayor under subsection (a) of 
this section for any position for any period during the last quarter of 
calendar year 1993 shall be deemed to be the rate of pay payable for 
that position for September 30, 1993.
    (c) Notwithstanding section 4(a) of the District of Columbia 
Redevelopment Act of 1945, approved August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 793; Public 
Law 79-592; D.C. Code, sec. 5-803(a)), the Board of Directors of the 
District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency shall be paid, during any 
fiscal year, per diem compensation at a rate established by the Mayor.
    Sec. 121. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. 
Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the 
District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act 
of 1973, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; 
D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(3)), shall apply with respect to the compensation 
of District of Columbia employees: Provided, That for pay purposes, 
employees of the District of Columbia government shall not be subject to 
the provisions of title 5 of the United States Code.
    Sec. 122. The Director of the Department of Administrative Services 
may pay rentals and repair, alter, and improve rented premises, without 
regard to the provisions of section 322 of the Economy Act of 1932 
(Public Law 72-212; 40 U.S.C. 278a), upon a determination by the 
Director, that by reason of circumstances set forth in such 
determination, the payment of these rents and the execution of this 
work, without reference to the limitations of section 322, is 
advantageous to the District in terms of economy, efficiency, and the 
District's best interest.
    Sec. 123. No later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the District of Columbia the 
new fiscal year 1994 revenue estimates as of the end of the first 
quarter of fiscal year 1994. These estimates shall be used in the budget 
request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995. The officially 
revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the midyear report.
    Sec. 124. Section 466(b) of the District of Columbia Self-Government 
and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, approved December 24, 1973 
(87 Stat. 806; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-326), as amended, 
is amended by striking ``sold before October 1, 1993'' and inserting 
``sold before October 1, 1994''.
    Sec. 125. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth in 
section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
1183.3), except that the District of Columbia Public Schools may renew 
or extend sole source contracts for which competition is not feasible or 
practical, provided that the determination as to whether to invoke the 
competitive bidding process has been made in accordance with duly 
promulgated Board of Education rules and procedures.
    Sec. 126. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public 
Law 99-177), as amended, the term ``program, project, and activity'' 
shall be synonymous with and refer specifically to each account 
appropriating Federal funds in this Act, and any sequestration order 
shall be applied to each of the accounts rather than to the aggregate 
total of those accounts: Provided, That sequestration orders shall not 
be applied to any account that is specifically exempted from 
sequestration by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, approved December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), 
as amended.
    Sec. 127. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, approved 
December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), as amended, after 
the amounts appropriated to the District of Columbia for the fiscal year 
involved have been paid to the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia shall pay to the Secretary of the Treasury, within 
15 days after receipt of a request therefor from the Secretary of the 
Treasury, such amounts as are sequestered by the order: Provided, That 
the sequestration percentage specified in the order shall be applied 
proportionately to each of the Federal appropriation accounts in this 
Act that are not specifically exempted from sequestration by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, approved 
December 12, 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), as amended.
    Sec. 128. Sec. 133(e) of the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1990, as amended, is amended by striking ``December 31, 1993'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 1994''.
    Sec. 129. For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, the 
District of Columbia shall pay interest on its quarterly payments to the 
United States that are made more than 60 days from the date of receipt 
of an itemized statement from the Federal Bureau of Prisons of amounts 
due for housing District of Columbia convicts in Federal penitentiaries 
for the preceding quarter.
    Sec. 130. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize any 
office, agency or entity to expend funds for programs or functions for 
which a reorganization plan is required but has not been approved by the 
Council pursuant to section 422(12) of the District of Columbia Self-
Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, approved 
December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-
242(12)) and the Governmental Reorganization Procedures Act of 1981, 
effective October 17, 1981 (D.C. Law 4-42; D.C. Code, secs. 1-299.1 to 
1-299.7). Appropriations made by this Act for such programs or functions 
are conditioned on the approval by the Council, prior to October 1, 
1993, of the required reorganization plans.
    Sec. 131. (a) An entity of the District of Columbia government may 
accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal year 1994 if--
        (1) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the gift or 
    donation: Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia may 
    accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor; and
        (2) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry out its 
    authorized functions or duties.
    (b) Each entity of the District of Columbia government shall keep 
accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and use of any gift or 
donation under subsection (a) of this section, and shall make such 
records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) For the purposes of this section, the term ``entity of the 
District of Columbia government'' includes an independent agency of the 
District of Columbia.
    (d) This section shall not apply to the District of Columbia Board 
of Education, which may, pursuant to the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia, accept and use gifts to the public schools without 
prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 132. (a) Up to 50 fire fighters or members of the Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services Department who were hired before February 14, 
1980, and who retire on disability before the end of calendar year 1994 
shall be excluded from the computation of the rate of disability 
retirement under subsection 145(a) of the District of Columbia 
Retirement Reform Act of 1979, as amended, approved September 30, 1983 
(97 Stat. 727; D.C. Code, sec. 1-725(a)), for purposes of reducing the 
authorized Federal payment to the District of Columbia Police Officers 
and Fire Fighters' Retirement Fund pursuant to subsection 145(c) of the 
District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979.
    (b) The Mayor, within 30 days after the enactment of this Act, shall 
engage an enrolled actuary, to be paid by the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board, and shall comply with the requirements of section 
142(d) and section 144(d) of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform 
Act of 1979 (Public Law 96-122, D.C. Code, secs. 1-722(d) and 1-724(d)).
    Sec. 133. At the end of fiscal year 1994, the number of FTE's shall 
not exceed the number of FTE's in the approved fiscal year 1994 budget, 
less a 1 percent attrition rate and the actual corresponding dollar 
savings.
    Sec. 134. (a) The Mayor shall establish a program to offer 
incentives for employees to accept early-out retirement. The Mayor shall 
report to the Council for approval of the early-out retirement program 
by mid-fiscal year 1994 with an actuarial study to show the District's 
liability for the early-out program.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no early-out program 
established pursuant to this section shall be exempt from the 
requirements of section 142(d) and section 144(d) of the District of 
Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979 (Public Law 96-122, D.C. Code, 
secs. 1-722(d) and 1-724(d)).
    Sec. 135. No funds made available pursuant to any provision of this 
Act shall be used to implement or enforce any system of registration of 
unmarried, cohabiting couples whether they are homosexual, lesbian, or 
heterosexual, including but not limited to registration for the purpose 
of extending employment, health, or governmental benefits to such 
couples on the same basis that such benefits are extended to legally 
married couples; nor shall any funds made available pursuant to any 
provision of this Act otherwise be used to implement or enforce D.C. Act 
9-188, signed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia on April 15, 
1992.
    Sec. 136. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be used 
by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or other 
costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or United 
States Representatives under section 4(d) of the District of Columbia 
Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979, effective March 
10, 1981 (D.C. Law 3-171; D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 137. The Mayor of the District of Columbia shall report back to 
the Congress within 90 days on the status of construction of a new 
Federal prison in the District of Columbia as previously authorized by 
Congress.


   amendments to charter for group hospitalization and medical services

    Sec. 138. (a) Legal Domicile.--The first section of the Act entitled 
``An Act providing for the incorporation of certain persons as Group 
Hospitalization, Inc.'', approved August 11, 1939 (hereafter referred to 
as ``the Act''), is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: 
``The District of Columbia shall be the legal domicile of the 
corporation.''.
    (b) Regulatory Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Section 5 of the Act is amended to read as 
    follows:
    ``Sec. 5. The corporation shall be licensed and regulated by the 
District of Columbia in accordance with the laws and regulations of the 
District of Columbia.''.
        (2) Repeal.--The Act is amended by striking section 7.
    (c) Reimbursement of Regulatory Costs by the Corporation.--The Act 
(as amended by subsection (b) of this section) is amended by inserting 
after section 6 the following new section:
    ``Sec. 7. The corporation shall reimburse the District of Columbia 
for the costs of insurance regulation (including financial and market 
conduct examinations) of the corporation and its affiliates and 
subsidiaries by the District of Columbia.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect October 1, 1993.
    Sec. 139. (a) Title IV of the District of Columbia Omnibus Budget 
Support Act of 1992 (D.C. Law 9-145) is hereby repealed, and any 
provision of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act amended by 
such title is restored as if such title had not been enacted into law.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall apply beginning September 10, 1992.
    Sec. 140. Section 422(3) of the District of Columbia Self-Government 
and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973, approved December 24, 1973 
(87 Stat. 790; D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(3)), is amended by striking the 
period at the end of the fourth sentence and inserting the following:
    ``, and except that nothing in this section shall prohibit the 
District from paying an employee overtime pay in accordance with section 
7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 207).''.
    Sec. 141. Effective October 1, 1993, there is hereby established 
pursuant to the District of Columbia Fund Accounting Act of 1980, 
effective June 14, 1980 (D.C. Law 3-70; D.C. Code, sec. 47-371 et seq.), 
a Cash Reserve Fund to replenish the consolidated cash balances of the 
District of Columbia.
    Sec. 142. None of the Federal funds appropriated under this Act 
shall be expended for any abortion except when it is made known to the 
entity or official to which funds are appropriated under this Act that 
such procedure is necessary to save the life of the mother or that the 
pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1994''.

                                TITLE II

                      FISCAL YEAR 1993 SUPPLEMENTAL

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                   Governmental Direction and Support


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Governmental direction and support'', 
$14,231,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 
102-382; 106 Stat. 1423), $6,342,000 are rescinded for a net increase of 
$7,889,000.
    The following provision under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1423 
is repealed: ``Provided further, That $10,200,000 of the revenues 
realized from the `Water and Sewer Utility Payment in Lieu of Taxes Act 
of 1992' shall be available for the Mayor's youth and crime initiative, 
but shall not be obligated or expended until the Mayor submits to the 
Council a plan for the allocation and use of the funds:''.

                   Economic Development and Regulation


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Economic development and 
regulation'', $5,202,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 in the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 
(Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1423), $10,242,000 are rescinded for a 
net decrease of $5,040,000.

                        Public Safety and Justice


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public safety and justice'', 
$6,230,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 
102-382; 106 Stat. 1424), $20,578,000 are rescinded for a net decrease 
of $14,348,000: Provided further, That any unspent funds remaining in 
the personal and nonpersonal services budget of the Metropolitan Police 
Department at the end of fiscal year 1993 shall remain available for the 
exclusive use of the Metropolitan Police Department for the purchase of 
equipment in fiscal year 1994.

                         Public Education System


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public education system'', $4,000,000 
for the public schools of the District of Columbia and $246,000 for the 
Education Licensure Commission: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 in the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 
(Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1426), $2,270,000 for the Public Schools 
of the District of Columbia, $4,199,000 for the University of the 
District of Columbia, $964,000 for the Public Library, and $70,000 for 
the Commission on the Arts and Humanities are rescinded for a net 
decrease of $3,257,000.
    The following provision under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382, 106 Stat. 1426) 
is repealed: ``of which $2,000,000 shall be derived from revenues 
realized from the `Water and Sewer Utility Payment in Lieu of Taxes Act 
of 1992';''.

                         Human Support Services


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Human support services'', 
$81,772,000: Provided, That $7,000,000 of this appropriation, to remain 
available until expended, shall be available solely for District of 
Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, 
approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1426), 
$2,221,000 are rescinded for a net increase of $79,551,000.

                              Public Works


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public works'', $23,447,000: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 
106 Stat. 1427), $3,271,000 are rescinded for a net increase of 
$20,176,000.

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For an additional amount for ``Repayment of loans and interest'', 
$11,059,000.

                 Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt


                               (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 
1427), $5,000 are rescinded.

                                Resizing

    For the purpose of funding costs associated with the Temporary 
Appeals Panel pursuant to D.C. Law 9-47, the District of Columbia 
Government Merit Personnel Act of 1978 Temporary Amendment Act of 1991, 
$225,000.

                              Severance Pay

    For severance pay to employees who are involuntarily separated from 
service as a result of reductions-in-force or reorganizations, 
$10,410,000.

                             Pay Adjustment

    For pay increases and related costs to be transferred by the Mayor 
of the District of Columbia within the various appropriation headings in 
this Act from which costs are properly payable, $7,880,000.

                         Facilities Rent/Leases

    The paragraph under the heading ``Facilities Rent/Leases'' in the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 
(Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1428), is repealed: Provided, That the 
appropriation of $16,682,000 provided by that paragraph is distributed 
within the appropriation titles above.

                           Furlough Adjustment

    Each agency, office, and instrumentality of the District, except the 
District of Columbia Courts, shall furlough each employee of the 
respective agency, office, or instrumentality for one day in each month 
of the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993, or a proportionate number 
of hours for part-time employees. The personal services spending 
authority for each agency, office, and instrumentality subject to this 
section is reduced in an amount equal to the savings resulting from the 
employee furloughs required by this section, for a total reduction of 
$36,000,000, which is distributed within the appropriation titles above. 
The Council shall enact legislation to implement this section which may 
include but shall not be limited to procedures to ensure that public 
health and safety functions are carried out.

                     Within-Grade Salary Adjustments

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no employee of any 
agency, office, or instrumentality of the District shall receive within-
grade salary increases during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993, 
and no time during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993 shall 
accrue toward the waiting period for advancement to the following rate 
within the grade. The spending authority for each agency, office, and 
instrumentality is reduced in an amount equal to the savings resulting 
from the adjustments required by this section, for a total reduction of 
$13,000,000, which is distributed within the appropriation titles above.

              Personal and Nonpersonal Services Adjustments

    The paragraph under the heading ``Personal and Nonpersonal Services 
Adjustments'', in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, 
approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1428), is 
repealed: Provided, That the reduction of $30,798,600 required by that 
paragraph is distributed within the appropriation titles above.

                             Capital Outlay

    For an additional amount for ``Capital outlay'', $200,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund'', 
$12,717,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading 
in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 
5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1429), $41,482,000 are rescinded 
for a net decrease of $28,765,000.
    The following provision under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1429) 
is repealed: ``, and $12,200,000 collected as payment in lieu of taxes 
pursuant to the `Water and Sewer Utility Payment in Lieu of Taxes Act of 
1992' shall be transferred to the general fund to provide $10,200,000 
for the Mayor's youth and crime initiative, and $2,000,000 for the 
University of the District of Columbia''.
    The following provision under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1430) 
is repealed: ``Provided further, That not to exceed $22,705,000 in water 
and sewer enterprise fund operating revenues shall be available for pay-
as-you-go capital projects''.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund


                               (Rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading for the Lottery and 
Charitable Games Enterprise Fund for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved 
October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1430), $270,000 are 
rescinded.

                    Cable Television Enterprise Fund


                          (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Cable Television Enterprise Fund'', 
$35,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading for 
the Cable Television Enterprise Fund for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1993 in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, 
approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 102-382; 106 Stat. 1430), $300,000 
are rescinded and transferred to the general fund for a net decrease of 
$265,000.

                              Starplex Fund

    The paragraph under the heading ``Starplex Fund'' in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (Public Law 
102-382; 106 Stat. 1430), is amended by inserting after the phrase 
``shall be transferred to the general fund'' the following: ``and an 
additional $200,000 shall be transferred to the University of the 
District of Columbia''.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201. Section 114 of the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (106 Stat. 1432) is repealed.
    Sec. 202. Section 134(a)(1) of the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1993, approved October 5, 1992 (106 Stat. 1435) is 
amended by inserting the following after the word ``donation'': ``: 
Provided, That the Council of the District of Columbia may accept and 
use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor''.
    Sec. 203. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, appropriations 
made and authority granted pursuant to this title shall be deemed to be 
available for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Supplemental 
Appropriations and Rescissions Act, 1993''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.