[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1402 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.1402

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To convey a certain parcel of public land to the County of Twin Falls, 
Idaho,


             for use as a landfill, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Twin Falls County Landfill Act of 
1994''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Effective on the tender by the County of Twin Falls, Idaho, of 
the fair market value for the lands described in subsection (b) to the 
Secretary of the Interior, all right, title, and interest in and to 
such lands, except for subsurface minerals which are reserved to the 
United States, is transferred by operation of law to the County of Twin 
Falls. The Secretary shall evidence such conveyance as soon as possible 
thereafter by appropriate quitclaim deed.
    (b) Description of Land.--The lands to be conveyed pursuant to 
section 2 of this Act comprise approximately 1083.77 acres of Federal 
lands described as the SE\1/4\SW\1/4\SE\1/4\, S\1/2\SE\1/4\SE\1/4\ of 
section 31; W\1/2\, SW\1/4\SW\1/4\SE\1/4\ of section 32; Township 11 
South, Range 17 East, Boise Meridian and the West Half of Lot 2, Lot 3, 
Lot 4, W\1/2\SW\1/4\NE\1/4\, S\1/2\NW\1/4\, SW\1/4\ and the W\1/2\W\1/
2\SE\1/4\ of section 5; Lot 1, East Half of Lot 2, E\1/2\SW\1/4\NE\1/
4\, SE\1/4\NE\1/4\, E\1/2\W\1/2\SE\1/4\, and the E\1/2\SE\1/4\ of 
section 6; N\1/2\NE\1/4\NE\1/4\, NE\1/4\NW\1/4\NE\1/4\ of section 7; 
NW\1/4\NW\1/4\NE\1/4\, N\1/2\N\1/2\NW\1/4\ of section 8; of Township 12 
South, Range 17 East, Boise Meridian.
    (c) Subject to valid existing rights, the lands referred to in 
subsection (b) are withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the 
United States mining laws and from disposition under all laws 
pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and mineral materials, 
and all amendments thereto.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.