[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1548 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1548
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the National Wool Act of 1954 to reduce the subsidies that 
wool and mohair producers receive for the 1994 and 1995 marketing years 
and to eliminate the wool and mohair programs for the 1996 and 
subsequent marketing years, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SUPPORT PRICE FOR WOOL AND MOHAIR.

    Section 703 of the National Wool Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1782) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(a) Subject to subsection (b)(3), the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall, through the Commodity Credit Corporation, make loans and payments 
to producers of wool and mohair through December 31, 1995.'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``1997'' and inserting 
        ``1995''; and
            (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph:
    ``(3) No loans, purchases, or payments shall be made for the 1996 
and subsequent marketing years, except that loans and payments for the 
1995 marketing year shall be paid in 1996.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) Through December 31, 1995, the Secretary shall offer to 
wool and mohair producers recourse loans under terms and conditions that 
are prescribed by the Secretary, except that the loans shall be 
administered at no net cost to the Federal Government.
    ``(B) A producer who fails to repay a loan made under subparagraph 
(A) by the end of the following marketing year shall be ineligible for a 
loan under this Act for that marketing year and subsequent marketing 
years.''.

SEC. 2. REDUCTION IN PAYMENTS.

    Section 704(a) of the National Wool Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1783(a)) 
is amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``In the case of each of the 1994 and 1995 marketing years, 
the payments shall be 75 and 50 percent, respectively, of the amount 
otherwise determined under the preceding sentence.''.

SEC. 3. ELIMINATION OF WOOL AND MOHAIR PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Effective December 31, 1995, the National Wool Act 
of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1781 et seq.) is repealed.
    (b) Application.--The repeal made by subsection (a) shall apply to 
both the wool and mohair programs.
    (c) Prohibition.--Effective beginning December 31, 1995, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may not provide loans or payments for wool or 
mohair by using the funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation or under 
the authority of any law.

SEC. 4. REMOVAL OF PRICE SUPPORT REFERENCES.

    (a) Section 702 of the National Wool Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1781) is 
repealed.
    (b) Section 703 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1782) is amended--
        (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the following 
    new section heading:


                  ``SUPPORT PRICE FOR WOOL AND MOHAIR'';

        (2) in subsection (b)(1)(i), by striking ``such price support'' 
    and inserting ``the support price''; and
        (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``price support'' and 
    inserting ``support under this section''.
    (c) Section 704 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1783) is amended--
        (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the following 
    new section heading:

``SEC. 704. PAYMENTS.'';

    and
        (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``If payments are utilized as 
    a means of price support, the'' and inserting ``The''.
    (d) The first sentence of section 706 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1785) is 
amended by striking ``price support operations'' and inserting 
``operations under this Act''.

SEC. 5. LIABILITY OF PRODUCERS.

    A provision of this Act may not affect the liability of any person 
under any provision of law as in effect before the effective date of the 
provision.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.