[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1574 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.1574

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize appropriations for the Coastal Heritage Trail Route in 
the State


                 of New Jersey, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 6 of 
Public Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 1244 note) is amended_
        (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting ``(a) There''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), there 
are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out 
the purposes of this Act $1,000,000, which is in addition to any sums 
appropriated for such purposes for use during fiscal years ending on or 
before September 30, 1993.
    ``(2) Funds appropriated pursuant to this subsection to carry out 
the purposes of this Act shall be used solely for technical assistance 
and the design and fabrication of interpretive materials, devices and 
signs. In addition to the limitation on funds contained in subsection 
(a), no funds made available under this subsection shall be used for 
operation, maintenance, repair or construction except for construction 
of interpretive exhibits.
    ``(3) The Federal share of any project carried out with funds 
appropriated pursuant to this subsection may not exceed 50 percent of 
the total cost for that project and shall be provided on a matching 
basis. The non-Federal share of such cost may be in the form of cash, 
materials or in-kind services fairly valued by the Secretary.
    ``(c) The authorities provided to the Secretary under this Act 
shall terminate five years after the date of enactment of this 
subsection.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.