[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1654 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.1654

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act


 
                 To make certain technical corrections.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. NORTHERN CHEYENNE INDIAN RESERVED WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT 
              ACT OF 1992.

    (a) Environmental Costs._Section 7 of the Northern Cheyenne Indian 
Reserved Water Rights Settlement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-374, 106 
Stat. 1186 et seq.) is amended by adding the following new subsections 
(f) and (g) and redesignating the succeeding subsections accordingly:
    ``(f) Environmental Costs._All costs associated with the Tongue 
River Dam Project for environmental compliance mandated by Federal law 
and fish and wildlife mitigation measures adopted by the Secretary are 
the sole responsibility of the United States. Funds for such compliance 
shall be appropriated pursuant to the authorization in subsection (e), 
and shall be in addition to funds appropriated pursuant to section 
7(b)(1) of the Act. The Secretary is authorized to expend not to exceed 
$625,000 of funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (e) for fish and 
wildlife mitigation costs associated with Tongue River Dam construction 
authorized by the Act, and shall be in addition to funds appropriated 
pursuant to section 7(b)(1) of the Act.
    ``(g) Reimbursement to State._The Secretary shall reimburse Montana 
for expenditures for environmental compliance activities, conducted on 
behalf of the United States prior to enactment of this subsection (g), 
which the Secretary determines to have been properly conducted and 
necessary for completion of the Tongue River Dam Project. Subsequent to 
enactment of this subsection (g), the Secretary may not reimburse 
Montana for any such environmental compliance activities undertaken 
without the Secretary's prior approval.''.
    (b) Authorizations._The first sentence of section 4(c) of the 
Northern Cheyenne Indian Reserved Water Rights Settlement Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-374; 106 Stat. 1186 et seq.) is amended to read as 
follows: ``Except for authorizations contained in subsections 
7(b)(1)(A), 7(b)(1)(B), and the authorization for environmental 
compliance activities for the Tongue River Dam Project contained in 
subsection 7(e), the authorization of appropriations contained in this 
Act shall not be effective until such time as the Montana water court 
enters and approves a decree as provided in subsection (d) of this 
section.''.
    (c) Effective Date._The amendments made by this section shall be 
considered to have taken effect on September 30, 1992.

SEC. 2. SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT ACT OF 1992.

    (a) Amendment._Section 3704(d) of the San Carlos Apache Tribe Water 
Rights Settlement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-575) is amended by 
deleting ``reimbursable'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``nonreimbursable''.
    (b) Effective Date._The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be 
considered to have taken effect on October 30, 1992.

SEC. 3. TRIBALLY CONTROLLED COMMUNITY COLLEGES.

    The part of the text contained under the heading ``BUREAU OF INDIAN 
AFFAIRS'', and the subheading ``operation of indian programs'', in 
title I of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1994, which reads ``Provided further, That any 
funds provided under this head or previously provided for tribally-
controlled community colleges which are distributed prior to September 
30, 1994 which have been or are being invested or administered in 
compliance with section 331 of the Higher Education Act shall be deemed 
to be in compliance for current and future purposes with title III of 
the Tribally Controlled Community Colleges Assistance Act.'' is amended 
by deleting ``section 331 of the Higher Education Act'' and inserting 
in lieu thereof ``section 332(c)(2)(A) of the Higher Education Act of 
1965''.

SEC. 4. WHITE EARTH RESERVATION LAND SETTLEMENT ACT OF 1985.

    Section 7 of the White Earth Reservation Land Settlement Act of 
1985 (25 U.S.C. 331, note) is amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following:
    ``(f)(1) The Secretary is authorized to make a one-time deletion 
from the second list published under subsection (c) or any subsequent 
list published under subsection (e) of any allotments or interests 
which the Secretary has determined do not fall within the provisions of 
subsection (a) or (b) of section 4, or subsection (c) of section 5, or 
which the Secretary has determined were erroneously included in such 
list by reason of misdescription or typographical error.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of 
deletions made from the second list published under subsection (c) or 
any subsequent list published under subsection (e).
    ``(3) The determination made by the Secretary to delete an 
allotment or interest under paragraph (1) may be judicially reviewed in 
accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, within 90 
days after the date on which notice of such determination is published 
in the Federal Register under paragraph (2). Any legal action 
challenging such a determination that is not filed within such 90-day 
period shall be forever barred. Exclusive jurisdiction over any legal 
action challenging such a determination is vested in the United States 
District Court for the District of Minnesota.''.

SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Section 1(c) of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a 
reservation for the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of 
Oregon, and for other purposes'', approved September 9, 1988 (102 Stat. 
1594), is amended as follows:
        (1) delete ``9,811.32'' and insert in lieu thereof 
    ``9,879.65''; and
        (2) delete everything after ``5  8  17 All 640.00'' and insert 
    in lieu thereof the following:


         ``6              8       1    SW\1/4\SW\1/4\,W\1/2      53.78  
                                        \SE\1/4\SW\1/4\                 
         ``6              8       1    S\1/2\E\1/2\,SE\1/4\       9.00  
                                        SW\1/4\                         
         ``6              7       8    Tax lot 800                5.55  
                                                            ------------
                                             Total.........  9,879.65''.
                                                                        


    (b) Section 16 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 476) is 
amended by adding at the end of the following new subsections:
    ``(f) Privileges and Immunities of Indian Tribes; Prohibition on 
New Regulations._Departments or agencies of the United States shall not 
promulgate any regulation or make any decision or determination 
pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 461 et seq., 48 Stat. 
984) as amended, or any other Act of Congress, with respect to a 
federally recognized Indian tribe that classifies, enhances, or 
diminishes the privileges and immunities available to the Indian tribe 
relative to other federally recognized tribes by virtue of their status 
as Indian tribes.
    ``(g) Privileges and Immunities of Indian Tribes; Existing 
Regulations._Any regulation or administrative decision or determination 
of a department or agency of the United States that is in existence or 
effect on the date of enactment of this Act and that classifies, 
enhances, or diminishes the privileges and immunities available to a 
federally recognized Indian tribe relative to the privileges and 
immunities available to other federally recognized tribes by virtue of 
their status as Indian tribes shall have no force or effect.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.