[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 20 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.20
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for the establishment of strategic planning and performance 
measurement

           in the Federal Government, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Government Performance and Results 
Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) waste and inefficiency in Federal programs undermine the 
    confidence of the American people in the Government and reduces the 
    Federal Government's ability to address adequately vital public 
    needs;
        (2) Federal managers are seriously disadvantaged in their 
    efforts to improve program efficiency and effectiveness, because of 
    insufficient articulation of program goals and inadequate 
    information on program performance; and
        (3) congressional policymaking, spending decisions and program 
    oversight are seriously handicapped by insufficient attention to 
    program performance and results.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are to--
        (1) improve the confidence of the American people in the 
    capability of the Federal Government, by systematically holding 
    Federal agencies accountable for achieving program results;
        (2) initiate program performance reform with a series of pilot 
    projects in setting program goals, measuring program performance 
    against those goals, and reporting publicly on their progress;
        (3) improve Federal program effectiveness and public 
    accountability by promoting a new focus on results, service quality, 
    and customer satisfaction;
        (4) help Federal managers improve service delivery, by requiring 
    that they plan for meeting program objectives and by providing them 
    with information about program results and service quality;
        (5) improve congressional decisionmaking by providing more 
    objective information on achieving statutory objectives, and on the 
    relative effectiveness and efficiency of Federal programs and 
    spending; and
        (6) improve internal management of the Federal Government.

SEC. 3. STRATEGIC PLANNING.

    Chapter 3 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding after 
section 305 the following new section:

``ยง306. Strategic plans

    ``(a) No later than September 30, 1997, the head of each agency 
shall submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and 
to the Congress a strategic plan for program activities. Such plan shall 
contain--
        ``(1) a comprehensive mission statement covering the major 
    functions and operations of the agency;
        ``(2) general goals and objectives, including outcome-related 
    goals and objectives, for the major functions and operations of the 
    agency;
        ``(3) a description of how the goals and objectives are to be 
    achieved, including a description of the operational processes, 
    skills and technology, and the human, capital, information, and 
    other resources required to meet those goals and objectives;
        ``(4) a description of how the performance goals included in the 
    plan required by section 1115(a) of title 31 shall be related to the 
    general goals and objectives in the strategic plan;
        ``(5) an identification of those key factors external to the 
    agency and beyond its control that could significantly affect the 
    achievement of the general goals and objectives; and
        ``(6) a description of the program evaluations used in 
    establishing or revising general goals and objectives, with a 
    schedule for future program evaluations.
    ``(b) The strategic plan shall cover a period of not less than five 
years forward from the fiscal year in which it is submitted, and shall 
be updated and revised at least every three years.
    ``(c) The performance plan required by section 1115 of title 31 
shall be consistent with the agency's strategic plan. A performance plan 
may not be submitted for a fiscal year not covered by a current 
strategic plan under this section.
    ``(d) When developing a strategic plan, the agency shall consult 
with the Congress, and shall solicit and consider the views and 
suggestions of those entities potentially affected by or interested in 
such a plan.
    ``(e) The functions and activities of this section shall be 
considered to be inherently Governmental functions. The drafting of 
strategic plans under this section shall be performed only by Federal 
employees.
    ``(f) For purposes of this section the term `agency' means an 
Executive agency defined under section 105, but does not include the 
Central Intelligence Agency, the General Accounting Office, the Panama 
Canal Commission, the United States Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
Commission.''.

SEC. 4. ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLANS AND REPORTS.

    (a) Budget Contents and Submission to Congress.--Section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof 
the following new paragraph:
        ``(29) beginning with fiscal year 1999, a Federal Government 
    performance plan for the overall budget as provided for under 
    section 1115.''.
    (b) Performance Plans and Reports.--Chapter 11 of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by adding after section 1114 the following new 
sections:

``ยง1115. Performance plans

    ``(a) In carrying out the provisions of section 1105(a)(29), the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall require each 
agency to prepare an annual performance plan covering each program 
activity set forth in the budget of such agency. Such plan shall--
        ``(1) establish performance goals to define the level of 
    performance to be achieved by a program activity;
        ``(2) express such goals in an objective, quantifiable, and 
    measurable form unless authorized to be in an alternative form under 
    subsection (b);
        ``(3) briefly describe the operational processes, skills and 
    technology, and the human, capital, information, or other resources 
    required to meet the performance goals;
        ``(4) establish performance indicators to be used in measuring 
    or assessing the relevant outputs, service levels, and outcomes of 
    each program activity;
        ``(5) provide a basis for comparing actual program results with 
    the established performance goals; and
        ``(6) describe the means to be used to verify and validate 
    measured values.
    ``(b) If an agency, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, determines that it is not feasible to express 
the performance goals for a particular program activity in an objective, 
quantifiable, and measurable form, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget may authorize an alternative form. Such 
alternative form shall--
        ``(1) include separate descriptive statements of--
            ``(A)(i) a minimally effective program, and
            ``(ii) a successful program, or
            ``(B) such alternative as authorized by the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget,
    with sufficient precision and in such terms that would allow for an 
    accurate, independent determination of whether the program 
    activity's performance meets the criteria of the description; or
        ``(2) state why it is infeasible or impractical to express a 
    performance goal in any form for the program activity.
    ``(c) For the purpose of complying with this section, an agency may 
aggregate, disaggregate, or consolidate program activities, except that 
any aggregation or consolidation may not omit or minimize the 
significance of any program activity constituting a major function or 
operation for the agency.
    ``(d) An agency may submit with its annual performance plan an 
appendix covering any portion of the plan that--
        ``(1) is specifically authorized under criteria established by 
    an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national 
    defense or foreign policy; and
        ``(2) is properly classified pursuant to such Executive order.
    ``(e) The functions and activities of this section shall be 
considered to be inherently Governmental functions. The drafting of 
performance plans under this section shall be performed only by Federal 
employees.
    ``(f) For purposes of this section and sections 1116 through 1119, 
and sections 9703 and 9704 the term--
        ``(1) `agency' has the same meaning as such term is defined 
    under section 306(f) of title 5;
        ``(2) `outcome measure' means an assessment of the results of a 
    program activity compared to its intended purpose;
        ``(3) `output measure' means the tabulation, calculation, or 
    recording of activity or effort and can be expressed in a 
    quantitative or qualitative manner;
        ``(4) `performance goal' means a target level of performance 
    expressed as a tangible, measurable objective, against which actual 
    achievement can be compared, including a goal expressed as a 
    quantitative standard, value, or rate;
        ``(5) `performance indicator' means a particular value or 
    characteristic used to measure output or outcome;
        ``(6) `program activity' means a specific activity or project as 
    listed in the program and financing schedules of the annual budget 
    of the United States Government; and
        ``(7) `program evaluation' means an assessment, through 
    objective measurement and systematic analysis, of the manner and 
    extent to which Federal programs achieve intended objectives.

``ยง1116. Program performance reports

    ``(a) No later than March 31, 2000, and no later than March 31 of 
each year thereafter, the head of each agency shall prepare and submit 
to the President and the Congress, a report on program performance for 
the previous fiscal year.
    ``(b)(1) Each program performance report shall set forth the 
performance indicators established in the agency performance plan under 
section 1115, along with the actual program performance achieved 
compared with the performance goals expressed in the plan for that 
fiscal year.
    ``(2) If performance goals are specified in an alternative form 
under section 1115(b), the results of such program shall be described in 
relation to such specifications, including whether the performance 
failed to meet the criteria of a minimally effective or successful 
program.
    ``(c) The report for fiscal year 2000 shall include actual results 
for the preceding fiscal year, the report for fiscal year 2001 shall 
include actual results for the two preceding fiscal years, and the 
report for fiscal year 2002 and all subsequent reports shall include 
actual results for the three preceding fiscal years.
    ``(d) Each report shall--
        ``(1) review the success of achieving the performance goals of 
    the fiscal year;
        ``(2) evaluate the performance plan for the current fiscal year 
    relative to the performance achieved toward the performance goals in 
    the fiscal year covered by the report;
        ``(3) explain and describe, where a performance goal has not 
    been met (including when a program activity's performance is 
    determined not to have met the criteria of a successful program 
    activity under section 1115(b)(1)(A)(ii) or a corresponding level of 
    achievement if another alternative form is used)--
            ``(A) why the goal was not met;
            ``(B) those plans and schedules for achieving the 
        established performance goal; and
            ``(C) if the performance goal is impractical or infeasible, 
        why that is the case and what action is recommended;
        ``(4) describe the use and assess the effectiveness in achieving 
    performance goals of any waiver under section 9703 of this title; 
    and
        ``(5) include the summary findings of those program evaluations 
    completed during the fiscal year covered by the report.
    ``(e) An agency head may include all program performance information 
required annually under this section in an annual financial statement 
required under section 3515 if any such statement is submitted to the 
Congress no later than March 31 of the applicable fiscal year.
    ``(f) The functions and activities of this section shall be 
considered to be inherently Governmental functions. The drafting of 
program performance reports under this section shall be performed only 
by Federal employees.

``ยง1117. Exemption

    ``The Director of the Office of Management and Budget may exempt 
from the requirements of sections 1115 and 1116 of this title and 
section 306 of title 5, any agency with annual outlays of $20,000,000 or 
less.''.

SEC. 5. MANAGERIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND FLEXIBILITY.

    (a) Managerial Accountability and Flexibility.--Chapter 97 of title 
31, United States Code, is amended by adding after section 9702, the 
following new section:

``ยง9703. Managerial accountability and flexibility

    ``(a) Beginning with fiscal year 1999, the performance plans 
required under section 1115 may include proposals to waive 
administrative procedural requirements and controls, including 
specification of personnel staffing levels, limitations on compensation 
or remuneration, and prohibitions or restrictions on funding transfers 
among budget object classification 20 and subclassifications 11, 12, 31, 
and 32 of each annual budget submitted under section 1105, in return for 
specific individual or organization accountability to achieve a 
performance goal. In preparing and submitting the performance plan under 
section 1105(a)(29), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall review and may approve any proposed waivers. A waiver shall take 
effect at the beginning of the fiscal year for which the waiver is 
approved.
    ``(b) Any such proposal under subsection (a) shall describe the 
anticipated effects on performance resulting from greater managerial or 
organizational flexibility, discretion, and authority, and shall 
quantify the expected improvements in performance resulting from any 
waiver. The expected improvements shall be compared to current actual 
performance, and to the projected level of performance that would be 
achieved independent of any waiver.
    ``(c) Any proposal waiving limitations on compensation or 
remuneration shall precisely express the monetary change in compensation 
or remuneration amounts, such as bonuses or awards, that shall result 
from meeting, exceeding, or failing to meet performance goals.
    ``(d) Any proposed waiver of procedural requirements or controls 
imposed by an agency (other than the proposing agency or the Office of 
Management and Budget) may not be included in a performance plan unless 
it is endorsed by the agency that established the requirement, and the 
endorsement included in the proposing agency's performance plan.
    ``(e) A waiver shall be in effect for one or two years as specified 
by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in approving the 
waiver. A waiver may be renewed for a subsequent year. After a waiver 
has been in effect for three consecutive years, the performance plan 
prepared under section 1115 may propose that a waiver, other than a 
waiver of limitations on compensation or remuneration, be made 
permanent.
    ``(f) For purposes of this section, the definitions under section 
1115(f) shall apply.''.

SEC. 6. PILOT PROJECTS.

    (a) Performance Plans and Reports.--Chapter 11 of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1117 (as added by 
section 4 of this Act) the following new section:

``ยง1118. Pilot projects for performance goals

    ``(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, after 
consultation with the head of each agency, shall designate not less than 
ten agencies as pilot projects in performance measurement for fiscal 
years 1994, 1995, and 1996. The selected agencies shall reflect a 
representative range of Government functions and capabilities in 
measuring and reporting program performance.
    ``(b) Pilot projects in the designated agencies shall undertake the 
preparation of performance plans under section 1115, and program 
performance reports under section 1116, other than section 1116(c), for 
one or more of the major functions and operations of the agency. A 
strategic plan shall be used when preparing agency performance plans 
during one or more years of the pilot period.
    ``(c) No later than May 1, 1997, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall submit a report to the President and to the 
Congress which shall--
        ``(1) assess the benefits, costs, and usefulness of the plans 
    and reports prepared by the pilot agencies in meeting the purposes 
    of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993;
        ``(2) identify any significant difficulties experienced by the 
    pilot agencies in preparing plans and reports; and
        ``(3) set forth any recommended changes in the requirements of 
    the provisions of Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, 
    section 306 of title 5, sections 1105, 1115, 1116, 1117, 1119 and 
    9703 of this title, and this section.''.
    (b) Managerial Accountability and Flexibility.--Chapter 97 of title 
31, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 9703 (as 
added by section 5 of this Act) the following new section:

``ยง9704. Pilot projects for managerial accountability and 
            flexibility

    ``(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
designate not less than five agencies as pilot projects in managerial 
accountability and flexibility for fiscal years 1995 and 1996. Such 
agencies shall be selected from those designated as pilot projects under 
section 1118 and shall reflect a representative range of Government 
functions and capabilities in measuring and reporting program 
performance.
    ``(b) Pilot projects in the designated agencies shall include 
proposed waivers in accordance with section 9703 for one or more of the 
major functions and operations of the agency.
    ``(c) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
include in the report to the President and to the Congress required 
under section 1118(c)--
        ``(1) an assessment of the benefits, costs, and usefulness of 
    increasing managerial and organizational flexibility, discretion, 
    and authority in exchange for improved performance through a waiver; 
    and
        ``(2) an identification of any significant difficulties 
    experienced by the pilot agencies in preparing proposed waivers.
    ``(d) For purposes of this section the definitions under section 
1115(f) shall apply.''.
    (c) Performance Budgeting.--Chapter 11 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after section 1118 (as added by section 6 
of this Act) the following new section:

``ยง1119. Pilot projects for performance budgeting

    ``(a) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, after 
consultation with the head of each agency shall designate not less than 
five agencies as pilot projects in performance budgeting for fiscal 
years 1998 and 1999. At least three of the agencies shall be selected 
from those designated as pilot projects under section 1118, and shall 
also reflect a representative range of Government functions and 
capabilities in measuring and reporting program performance.
    ``(b) Pilot projects in the designated agencies shall cover the 
preparation of performance budgets. Such budgets shall present, for one 
or more of the major functions and operations of the agency, the varying 
levels of performance, including outcome-related performance, that would 
result from different budgeted amounts.
    ``(c) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
include, as an alternative budget presentation in the budget submitted 
under section 1105 for fiscal year 1999, the performance budgets of the 
designated agencies for this fiscal year.
    ``(d) No later than March 31, 2001, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall transmit a report to the President and to 
the Congress on the performance budgeting pilot projects which shall--
        ``(1) assess the feasibility and advisability of including a 
    performance budget as part of the annual budget submitted under 
    section 1105;
        ``(2) describe any difficulties encountered by the pilot 
    agencies in preparing a performance budget;
        ``(3) recommend whether legislation requiring performance 
    budgets should be proposed and the general provisions of any 
    legislation; and
        ``(4) set forth any recommended changes in the other 
    requirements of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, 
    section 306 of title 5, sections 1105, 1115, 1116, 1117, and 9703 of 
    this title, and this section.
    ``(e) After receipt of the report required under subsection (d), the 
Congress may specify that a performance budget be submitted as part of 
the annual budget submitted under section 1105.''.

SEC. 7. UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE.

    Part III of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end thereof the following new chapter:

       ``CHAPTER 28--STRATEGIC PLANNING AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT

``Sec.
``2801. Definitions.
``2802. Strategic plans.
``2803. Performance plans.
``2804. Program performance reports.
``2805. Inherently Governmental functions.

``ยง2801. Definitions

    ``For purposes of this chapter the term--
        ``(1) `outcome measure' refers to an assessment of the results 
    of a program activity compared to its intended purpose;
        ``(2) `output measure' refers to the tabulation, calculation, or 
    recording of activity or effort and can be expressed in a 
    quantitative or qualitative manner;
        ``(3) `performance goal' means a target level of performance 
    expressed as a tangible, measurable objective, against which actual 
    achievement shall be compared, including a goal expressed as a 
    quantitative standard, value, or rate;
        ``(4) `performance indicator' refers to a particular value or 
    characteristic used to measure output or outcome;
        ``(5) `program activity' means a specific activity related to 
    the mission of the Postal Service; and
        ``(6) `program evaluation' means an assessment, through 
    objective measurement and systematic analysis, of the manner and 
    extent to which Postal Service programs achieve intended objectives.

``ยง2802. Strategic plans

    ``(a) No later than September 30, 1997, the Postal Service shall 
submit to the President and the Congress a strategic plan for its 
program activities. Such plan shall contain--
        ``(1) a comprehensive mission statement covering the major 
    functions and operations of the Postal Service;
        ``(2) general goals and objectives, including outcome-related 
    goals and objectives, for the major functions and operations of the 
    Postal Service;
        ``(3) a description of how the goals and objectives are to be 
    achieved, including a description of the operational processes, 
    skills and technology, and the human, capital, information, and 
    other resources required to meet those goals and objectives;
        ``(4) a description of how the performance goals included in the 
    plan required under section 2803 shall be related to the general 
    goals and objectives in the strategic plan;
        ``(5) an identification of those key factors external to the 
    Postal Service and beyond its control that could significantly 
    affect the achievement of the general goals and objectives; and
        ``(6) a description of the program evaluations used in 
    establishing or revising general goals and objectives, with a 
    schedule for future program evaluations.
    ``(b) The strategic plan shall cover a period of not less than five 
years forward from the fiscal year in which it is submitted, and shall 
be updated and revised at least every three years.
    ``(c) The performance plan required under section 2803 shall be 
consistent with the Postal Service's strategic plan. A performance plan 
may not be submitted for a fiscal year not covered by a current 
strategic plan under this section.
    ``(d) When developing a strategic plan, the Postal Service shall 
solicit and consider the views and suggestions of those entities 
potentially affected by or interested in such a plan, and shall advise 
the Congress of the contents of the plan.

``ยง2803. Performance plans

    ``(a) The Postal Service shall prepare an annual performance plan 
covering each program activity set forth in the Postal Service budget, 
which shall be included in the comprehensive statement presented under 
section 2401(g) of this title. Such plan shall--
        ``(1) establish performance goals to define the level of 
    performance to be achieved by a program activity;
        ``(2) express such goals in an objective, quantifiable, and 
    measurable form unless an alternative form is used under subsection 
    (b);
        ``(3) briefly describe the operational processes, skills and 
    technology, and the human, capital, information, or other resources 
    required to meet the performance goals;
        ``(4) establish performance indicators to be used in measuring 
    or assessing the relevant outputs, service levels, and outcomes of 
    each program activity;
        ``(5) provide a basis for comparing actual program results with 
    the established performance goals; and
        ``(6) describe the means to be used to verify and validate 
    measured values.
    ``(b) If the Postal Service determines that it is not feasible to 
express the performance goals for a particular program activity in an 
objective, quantifiable, and measurable form, the Postal Service may use 
an alternative form. Such alternative form shall--
        ``(1) include separate descriptive statements of--
            ``(A) a minimally effective program, and
            ``(B) a successful program,
    with sufficient precision and in such terms that would allow for an 
    accurate, independent determination of whether the program 
    activity's performance meets the criteria of either description; or
        ``(2) state why it is infeasible or impractical to express a 
    performance goal in any form for the program activity.
    ``(c) In preparing a comprehensive and informative plan under this 
section, the Postal Service may aggregate, disaggregate, or consolidate 
program activities, except that any aggregation or consolidation may not 
omit or minimize the significance of any program activity constituting a 
major function or operation.
    ``(d) The Postal Service may prepare a non-public annex to its plan 
covering program activities or parts of program activities relating to--
        ``(1) the avoidance of interference with criminal prosecution; 
    or
        ``(2) matters otherwise exempt from public disclosure under 
    section 410(c) of this title.

``ยง2804. Program performance reports

    ``(a) The Postal Service shall prepare a report on program 
performance for each fiscal year, which shall be included in the annual 
comprehensive statement presented under section 2401(g) of this title.
    ``(b)(1) The program performance report shall set forth the 
performance indicators established in the Postal Service performance 
plan, along with the actual program performance achieved compared with 
the performance goals expressed in the plan for that fiscal year.
    ``(2) If performance goals are specified by descriptive statements 
of a minimally effective program activity and a successful program 
activity, the results of such program shall be described in relationship 
to those categories, including whether the performance failed to meet 
the criteria of either category.
    ``(c) The report for fiscal year 2000 shall include actual results 
for the preceding fiscal year, the report for fiscal year 2001 shall 
include actual results for the two preceding fiscal years, and the 
report for fiscal year 2002 and all subsequent reports shall include 
actual results for the three preceding fiscal years.
    ``(d) Each report shall--
        ``(1) review the success of achieving the performance goals of 
    the fiscal year;
        ``(2) evaluate the performance plan for the current fiscal year 
    relative to the performance achieved towards the performance goals 
    in the fiscal year covered by the report;
        ``(3) explain and describe, where a performance goal has not 
    been met (including when a program activity's performance is 
    determined not to have met the criteria of a successful program 
    activity under section 2803(b)(2))--
            ``(A) why the goal was not met;
            ``(B) those plans and schedules for achieving the 
        established performance goal; and
            ``(C) if the performance goal is impractical or infeasible, 
        why that is the case and what action is recommended; and
        ``(4) include the summary findings of those program evaluations 
    completed during the fiscal year covered by the report.

``ยง2805. Inherently Governmental functions

    ``The functions and activities of this chapter shall be considered 
to be inherently Governmental functions. The drafting of strategic 
plans, performance plans, and program performance reports under this 
section shall be performed only by employees of the Postal Service.''.

SEC. 8. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT AND LEGISLATION.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed as limiting 
the ability of Congress to establish, amend, suspend, or annul a 
performance goal. Any such action shall have the effect of superseding 
that goal in the plan submitted under section 1105(a)(29) of title 31, 
United States Code.
    (b) GAO Report.--No later than June 1, 1997, the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall report to Congress on the implementation of 
this Act, including the prospects for compliance by Federal agencies 
beyond those participating as pilot projects under sections 1118 and 
9704 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 9. TRAINING.

    The Office of Personnel Management shall, in consultation with the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Comptroller 
General of the United States, develop a strategic planning and 
performance measurement training component for its management training 
program and otherwise provide managers with an orientation on the 
development and use of strategic planning and program performance 
measurement.

SEC. 10. APPLICATION OF ACT.

    No provision or amendment made by this Act may be construed as--
        (1) creating any right, privilege, benefit, or entitlement for 
    any person who is not an officer or employee of the United States 
    acting in such capacity, and no person who is not an officer or 
    employee of the United States acting in such capacity shall have 
    standing to file any civil action in a court of the United States to 
    enforce any provision or amendment made by this Act; or
        (2) superseding any statutory requirement, including any 
    requirement under section 553 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 11. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Amendment to Title 5, United States Code.--The table of sections 
for chapter 3 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding after 
the item relating to section 305 the following:
``306. Strategic plans.''.

    (b) Amendments to Title 31, United States Code.--
        (1) Amendment to chapter 11.--The table of sections for chapter 
    11 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding after the 
    item relating to section 1114 the following:
``1115. Performance plans.
``1116. Program performance reports.
``1117. Exemptions.
``1118. Pilot projects for performance goals.
``1119. Pilot projects for performance budgeting.''.

        (2) Amendment to chapter 97.--The table of sections for chapter 
    97 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding after the 
    item relating to section 9702 the following:
``9703. Managerial accountability and flexibility.
``9704. Pilot projects for managerial accountability and flexibility.''.
    (c) Amendment to Title 39, United States Code.--The table of 
chapters for part III of title 39, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end thereof the following new item:

``28. Strategic planning and performance management...............


                                                                 2801''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.