[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 21 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.21

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To designate certain lands in the California Desert as wilderness, to 
establish the Death Valley and Joshua Tree National Parks, to establish 
the Mojave National Preserve, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    Sections 1 and 2, and titles I through IX of this Act may be cited 
as the ``California Desert Protection Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND POLICY.

    (a) The Congress finds and declares that--
        (1) the federally owned desert lands of southern California 
    constitute a public wildland resource of extraordinary and 
    inestimable value for this and future generations;
        (2) these desert wildlands display unique scenic, historical, 
    archeological, environmental, ecological, wildlife, cultural, 
    scientific, educational, and recreational values used and enjoyed 
    by millions of Americans for hiking and camping, scientific study 
    and scenic appreciation;
        (3) the public land resources of the California desert now face 
    and are increasingly threatened by adverse pressures which would 
    impair, dilute, and destroy their public and natural values;
        (4) the California desert, embracing wilderness lands, units of 
    the National Park System, other Federal lands, State parks and 
    other State lands, and private lands, constitutes a cohesive unit 
    posing unique and difficult resource protection and management 
    challenges;
        (5) through designation of national monuments by Presidential 
    proclamation, through enactment of general public land statutes 
    (including section 601 of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
    Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, 43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and through 
    interim administrative actions, the Federal Government has begun 
    the process of appropriately providing for protection of the 
    significant resources of the public lands in the California desert; 
    and
        (6) statutory land unit designations are needed to afford the 
    full protection which the resources and public land values of the 
    California desert merit.
    (b) In order to secure for the American people of this and future 
generations an enduring heritage of wilderness, national parks, and 
public land values in the California desert, it is hereby declared to 
be the policy of the Congress that--
        (1) appropriate public lands in the California desert shall be 
    included within the National Park System and the National 
    Wilderness Preservation System, in order to--
            (A) preserve unrivaled scenic, geologic, and wildlife 
        values associated with these unique natural landscapes;
            (B) perpetuate in their natural state significant and 
        diverse ecosystems of the California desert;
            (C) protect and preserve historical and cultural values of 
        the California desert associated with ancient Indian cultures, 
        patterns of western exploration and settlement, and sites 
        exemplifying the mining, ranching and railroading history of 
        the Old West;
            (D) provide opportunities for compatible outdoor public 
        recreation, protect and interpret ecological and geological 
        features and historic, paleontological, and archeological 
        sites, maintain wilderness resource values, and promote public 
        understanding and appreciation of the California desert; and
            (E) retain and enhance opportunities for scientific 
        research in undisturbed ecosystems.

  TITLE I--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE 
                       BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds and declares that--
        (1) wilderness is a distinguishing characteristic of the public 
    lands in the California desert, one which affords an unrivaled 
    opportunity for experiencing vast areas of the Old West essentially 
    unaltered by man's activities, and which merits preservation for 
    the benefit of present and future generations;
        (2) the wilderness values of desert lands are increasingly 
    threatened by and especially vulnerable to impairment, alteration, 
    and destruction by activities and intrusions associated with 
    incompatible use and development; and
        (3) preservation of desert wilderness necessarily requires the 
    highest forms of protective designation and management.

SEC. 102. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    In furtherance of the purpose of the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890, 
16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and sections 601 and 603 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2743, 43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.), the following lands in the State of California, as generally 
depicted on maps referenced herein, are hereby designated as 
wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
        (1) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventy-four thousand eight hundred and ninety acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Argus Range Wilderness--Proposed 1'', 
    dated May 1991, and two maps entitled ``Argus Range Wilderness--
    Proposed 2'' and ``Argus Range Wilderness--Proposed 3'', dated 
    January 1989, and which shall be known as the Argus Range 
    Wilderness. If at any time within fifteen years after the date of 
    enactment of this Act the Secretary of the Navy notifies the 
    Secretary that permission has been granted to use lands within the 
    area of the China Lake Naval Air Warfare Center for installation of 
    a space energy laser facility, and that establishment of a right-
    of-way across lands within the Argus Range Wilderness is desirable 
    in order to facilitate access to the lands to be used for such 
    facility, the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to the Federal 
    Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, may grant a right-of-way 
    for, and authorize construction of, a road to be used solely for 
    that purpose across such lands, notwithstanding the designation of 
    such lands as wilderness. So far as practicable, any such road 
    shall be aligned in a manner that takes into account the 
    desirability of minimizing adverse impacts on wilderness values.
        (2) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately ten 
    thousand three hundred and eighty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Bigelow Cholla Garden Wilderness-- Proposed'', dated 
    July 1993, and which shall be known as the Bigelow Cholla Garden 
    Wilderness.
        (3) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, and within the San Bernardino 
    National Forest, which comprise approximately thirty-nine thousand 
    one hundred and eighty-five acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Bighorn Mountain Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Bighorn Mountain Wilderness.
        (4) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which 
    comprise approximately forty-seven thousand five hundred and 
    seventy acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Big Maria 
    Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated February 1986, and which 
    shall be known as the Big Maria Mountains Wilderness.
        (5) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirteen thousand nine hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Black Mountain Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Black Mountain 
    Wilderness.
        (6) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately nine 
    thousand five hundred and twenty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Bright Star Wilderness--Proposed'', dated October 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Bright Star Wilderness.
        (7) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    sixty-eight thousand five hundred and fifteen acres, as generally 
    depicted on two maps entitled ``Bristol Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', and ``Bristol Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 2'', 
    dated September 1991, and which shall be known as Bristol Mountains 
    Wilderness.
        (8) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-nine thousand seven hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Cadiz Dunes Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Cadiz Dunes 
    Wilderness.
        (9) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and Eastern San Diego County, of the Bureau of Land Management, 
    which comprise approximately fifteen thousand seven hundred acres, 
    as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Carrizo Gorge 
    Wilderness--Proposed'', dated February 1986, and which shall be 
    known as the Carrizo Gorge Wilderness.
        (10) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise 
    approximately sixty-four thousand three hundred and twenty acres, 
    as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Chemehuevi Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known 
    as the Chemehuevi Mountains Wilderness.
        (11) Certain lands in the Bakersfield District, of the Bureau 
    of Land Management, which comprise approximately thirteen thousand 
    seven hundred acres, as generally depicted on two maps entitled 
    ``Chimney Park Wilderness--Proposed 1'' and ``Chimney Peak 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known 
    as the Chimney Peak Wilderness.
        (12) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    eighty thousand seven hundred and seventy acres, as generally 
    depicted on two maps entitled ``Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'' and ``Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 2'', 
    dated July 1992, and which shall be known as the Chuckwalla 
    Mountains Wilderness.
        (13) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise thirty-three 
    thousand nine hundred and eighty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Cleghorn Lakes Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Cleghorn Lakes Wilderness. 
    The Secretary may, pursuant to an application filed by the 
    Department of Defense, grant a right-of-way for, and authorize 
    construction of, a road within the area depicted as ``nonwilderness 
    road corridor'' on such map.
        (14) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-six thousand acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Clipper Mountain Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and 
    which shall be known as Clipper Mountain Wilderness.
        (15) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    fifty thousand five hundred and twenty acres, as generally depicted 
    on a map entitled ``Coso Range Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 
    1991, and which shall be known as Coso Range Wilderness.
        (16) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventeen thousand acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Coyote Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and 
    which shall be known as Coyote Mountains Wilderness.
        (17) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    eight thousand six hundred acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Darwin Falls Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 1991, and 
    which shall be known as Darwin Falls Wilderness.
        (18) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which 
    comprise approximately forty-eight thousand eight hundred and fifty 
    acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Dead Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed'', dated October 1991, and which shall be 
    known as Dead Mountains Wilderness.
        (19) Certain lands in the Bakersfield District, of the Bureau 
    of Land Management, which comprise approximately thirty-six 
    thousand three hundred acres, as generally depicted on two maps 
    entitled ``Domeland Wilderness Additions--Proposed 1'' and 
    ``Domeland Wilderness Additions--Proposed 2'', dated February 1986, 
    and which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to 
    be a part of, the Domeland Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 
    93-632 and 98-425.
        (20) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-three thousand seven hundred and eighty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``El Paso Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the El 
    Paso Mountains Wilderness.
        (21) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-five thousand nine hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Fish Creek Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as Fish Creek 
    Mountains Wilderness.
        (22) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-eight thousand one hundred and ten acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Funeral Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known as Funeral 
    Mountains Wilderness.
        (23) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-seven thousand seven hundred acres, as generally depicted on 
    a map entitled ``Golden Valley Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    February 1986, and which shall be known as Golden Valley 
    Wilderness.
        (24) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-one thousand six hundred and ninety-five acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Grass Valley Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Grass Valley 
    Wilderness.
        (25) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-two thousand two hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Hollow Hills Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated May 1991, and which shall be known as the Hollow Hills 
    Wilderness.
        (26) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-six thousand four hundred and sixty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Ibex Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 
    1991, and which shall be known as the Ibex Wilderness.
        (27) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-three thousand eight hundred and fifty-five acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Indian Pass Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Indian 
    Pass Wilderness.
        (28) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Bakersfield District, of the Bureau of Land Management, and 
    within the Inyo National Forest, which comprise approximately two 
    hundred and five thousand and twenty acres, as generally depicted 
    on three maps entitled ``Inyo Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 1'', 
    ``Inyo Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 2'', ``Inyo Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed 3'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known 
    as the Inyo Mountains Wilderness.
        (29) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-three thousand six hundred and seventy acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Jacumba Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    July 1993, and which shall be known as the Jacumba Wilderness.
        (30) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    hundred and twenty-nine thousand five hundred and eighty acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Kelso Dunes Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', dated October 1991, a map entitled ``Kelso Dunes 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated May 1991, and a map entitled 
    ``Kelso Dunes Wilderness--Proposed 3'', dated September 1991, and 
    which shall be known as the Kelso Dunes Wilderness.
        (31) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, and the Sequoia National Forest, 
    which comprise approximately eighty-eight thousand two hundred and 
    ninety acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Kiavah 
    Wilderness--Proposed 1'', dated February 1986, and a map entitled 
    ``Kiavah Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated October 1993, and which 
    shall be known as the Kiavah Wilderness.
        (32) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately two 
    hundred nine thousand, six hundred and eight acres, as generally 
    depicted on four maps entitled ``Kingston Range Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', ``Kingston Range Wilderness--Proposed 2'', ``Kingston 
    Range Wilderness--Proposed 3'', ``Kingston Range Wilderness--
    Proposed 4'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the 
    Kingston Range Wilderness.
        (33) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-nine thousand eight hundred and eighty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Little Chuckwalla Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known 
    as the Little Chuckwalla Mountains Wilderness.
        (34) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which 
    comprise approximately thirty-three thousand six hundred acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Little Picacho Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Little 
    Picacho Wilderness.
        (35) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-two thousand three hundred and sixty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Malpais Mesa Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated September 1991, and which shall be known as the Malpais Mesa 
    Wilderness.
        (36) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    sixteen thousand one hundred and five acres, as generally depicted 
    on a map entitled ``Manly Peak Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    October 1991, and which shall be known as the Manly Peak 
    Wilderness.
        (37) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-four thousand two hundred acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Mecca Hills Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, 
    and which shall be known as the Mecca Hills Wilderness.
        (38) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    forty-seven thousand three hundred and thirty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Mesquite Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    May 1991, and which shall be known as the Mesquite Wilderness.
        (39) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-two thousand nine hundred acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Newberry Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    February 1986, and which shall be known as the Newberry Mountains 
    Wilderness.
        (40) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    hundred ten thousand eight hundred and sixty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Nopah Range Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Nopah Range 
    Wilderness.
        (41) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-two thousand two hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``North Algodones Dunes Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated October 1991, and which shall be known as the 
    North Algodones Dunes Wilderness.
        (42) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-five thousand five hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``North Mesquite Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known as the North 
    Mesquite Mountains Wilderness.
        (43) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    hundred forty-six thousand and twenty acres, as generally depicted 
    on a map entitled ``Old Woman Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 1'', 
    dated July 1993 and a map entitled ``Old Woman Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known 
    as the Old Woman Mountains Wilderness.
        (44) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    forty thousand seven hundred and thirty-five acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Orocopia Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the 
    Orocopia Mountains Wilderness.
        (45) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Bakersfield District, of the Bureau of Land Management, 
    which comprise approximately seventy-four thousand and sixty acres, 
    as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Owens Peak Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', dated February 1986, a map entitled ``Owens Peak 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated March 1994, and a map entitled 
    ``Owens Peak Wilderness--Proposed 3'', dated May 1991, and which 
    shall be known as the Owens Peak Wilderness.
        (46) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventy-four thousand eight hundred acres, as generally depicted on 
    a map entitled ``Pahrump Valley Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    February 1986, and which shall be known as the Pahrump Valley 
    Wilderness.
        (47) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately two 
    hundred seventy thousand six hundred and twenty-nine acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Palen/McCoy Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', dated July 1993, and a map entitled ``Palen/McCoy 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known 
    as the Palen/McCoy Wilderness.
        (48) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-two thousand three hundred and ten acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Palo 
    Verde Mountains Wilderness.
        (49) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seven thousand seven hundred acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Picacho Peak Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 1991, and 
    which shall be known as the Picacho Peak Wilderness.
        (50) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventy-two thousand five hundred and seventy-five acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Piper Mountain Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated October 1993, and which shall be known as the 
    Piper Mountain Wilderness.
        (51) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-six thousand eight hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Piute Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Piute 
    Mountains Wilderness.
        (52) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventy-eight thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight acres, as 
    generally depicted on a map entitled ``Resting Spring Range 
    Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known as 
    the Resting Spring Range Wilderness.
        (53) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    forty thousand eight hundred and twenty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Rice Valley Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated May 1991, and which shall be known as the Rice Valley 
    Wilderness.
        (54) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which 
    comprise approximately twenty-two thousand three hundred eighty 
    acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Riverside 
    Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 1991, and which shall 
    be known as the Riverside Mountains Wilderness.
        (55) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-seven thousand six hundred and ninety acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Rodman Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated October 1994, and which shall be known as the 
    Rodman Mountains Wilderness.
        (56) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Bakersfield District, of the Bureau of Land Management, 
    which comprise approximately fifty-one thousand nine hundred acres, 
    as generally depicted on two maps entitled ``Sacatar Trail 
    Wilderness--Proposed 1'' and ``Sacatar Trail Wilderness--Proposed 
    2'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known as the Sacatar Trail 
    Wilderness.
        (57) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    thousand four hundred and forty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Saddle Peak Hills Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Saddle Peak Hills Wilderness.
        (58) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-seven thousand nine hundred and eighty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``San Gorgonio Wilderness Additions--
    Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which are hereby incorporated in, 
    and which shall be deemed to be a part of, the San Gorgonio 
    Wilderness as designated by Public Laws 88-577 and 98-425.
        (59) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    sixty-four thousand three hundred and forty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Santa Rosa Wilderness Additions--
    Proposed'', dated March 1994, and which are hereby incorporated in, 
    and which shall be deemed to be part of, the Santa Rosa Wilderness 
    designated by Public Law 98-425.
        (60) Certain lands in the California Desert District, of the 
    Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately thirty-five 
    thousand and eighty acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Sawtooth Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and 
    which shall be known as the Sawtooth Mountains Wilderness.
        (61) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    hundred seventy-four thousand eight hundred acres, as generally 
    depicted on two maps entitled ``Sheephole Valley Wilderness--
    Proposed 1'', dated July 1993, and ``Sheephole Valley Wilderness--
    Proposed 2'', dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the 
    Sheephole Valley Wilderness.
        (62) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    sixteen thousand seven hundred and eighty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``South Nopah Range Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated February 1986, and which shall be known as the 
    South Nopah Range Wilderness.
        (63) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seven thousand and fifty acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Stateline Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 1991, and 
    which shall be known as the Stateline Wilderness.
        (64) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    eighty-one thousand six hundred acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Stepladder Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated 
    February 1986, and which shall be known as the Stepladder Mountains 
    Wilderness.
        (65) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    twenty-nine thousand one hundred and eighty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Surprise Canyon Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated September 1991, and which shall be known as the 
    Surprise Canyon Wilderness.
        (66) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    seventeen thousand eight hundred and twenty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Sylvania Mountains Wilderness--
    Proposed'', dated February 1986, and which shall be known as the 
    Sylvania Mountains Wilderness.
        (67) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately 
    thirty-one thousand one hundred and sixty acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Trilobite Wilderness--Proposed'', 
    dated July 1993, and which shall be known as the Trilobite 
    Wilderness.
        (68) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, 
    of the Bureau of Land Management, which comprise approximately one 
    hundred forty-four thousand five hundred acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Turtle Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 
    1'', dated February 1986 and a map entitled ``Turtle Mountains 
    Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated May 1991, and which shall be known 
    as the Turtle Mountains Wilderness.
        (69) Certain lands in the California Desert Conservation Area 
    and the Yuma District, of the Bureau of Land Management, which 
    comprise approximately seventy-seven thousand five hundred and 
    twenty acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Whipple 
    Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993, and which shall 
    be known as the Whipple Mountains Wilderness.

SEC. 103. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, each wilderness 
area designated under section 102 shall be administered by the 
Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the 
``Secretary'') or the Secretary of Agriculture, as appropriate, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act, except that any 
reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness 
Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the effective date of this 
title and any reference to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the Secretary who has administrative jurisdiction 
over the area.
    (b) Map and Legal Descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of enactment of section 102, the Secretary concerned shall file a 
map and legal description for each wilderness area designated under 
this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
United States House of Representatives. Each such map and description 
shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title, 
except that the Secretary or the Secretary of Agriculture, as 
appropriate, may correct clerical and typographical errors in each such 
legal description and map. Each such map and legal description shall be 
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the 
Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior, 
or the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, as 
appropriate.
    (c) Livestock.--Within the wilderness areas designated under 
section 102, the grazing of livestock, where established prior to the 
date of enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue subject 
to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the 
Secretary deems necessary, as long as such regulations, policies, and 
practices fully conform with and implement the intent of Congress 
regarding grazing in such areas as such intent is expressed in the 
Wilderness Act and section 101(f) of Public Law 101-628.
    (d) No Buffer Zones.--The Congress does not intend for the 
designation of wilderness areas in section 102 of this title to lead to 
the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any such 
wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses can be 
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, 
preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness 
area.
    (e) Fish and Wildlife.--As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act, nothing in this title shall be construed as affecting 
the jurisdiction of the State of California with respect to wildlife 
and fish on the public lands located in that State.
    (f) Fish and Wildlife Management.-- Management activities to 
maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to 
support such populations may be carried out within wilderness areas 
designated by this title and shall include the use of motorized 
vehicles by the appropriate State agencies.
    (g) Law Enforcement Access.--Nothing in this Act, including the 
wilderness designations made by such Act, may be construed to preclude 
Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies from conducting law 
enforcement and border operations as permitted before the date of 
enactment of this Act, including the use of motorized vehicles and 
aircraft, on any lands designated as wilderness by this Act.

SEC. 104. WILDERNESS REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the Congress 
hereby finds and directs that lands in the California Desert 
Conservation Area, of the Bureau of Land Management, not designated as 
wilderness or wilderness study areas by this Act have been adequately 
studied for wilderness designation pursuant to section 603 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 2743, 43 
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and are no longer subject to the requirement of 
section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
pertaining to the management of wilderness study areas in a manner that 
does not impair the suitability of such areas for preservation as 
wilderness.
    (b) Areas Not Released.--The following areas shall continue to be 
subject to the requirements of section 603(c) of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976, pertaining to the management of 
wilderness study areas in a manner that does not impair the suitability 
of such areas for preservation as wilderness--
        (1) certain lands which comprise approximately sixty-one 
    thousand three hundred and twenty, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Avawatz Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated May 
    1991;
        (2) certain lands which comprise approximately thirty-nine 
    thousand seven hundred and fifty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Kingston Range Wilderness--Proposed 4'', dated July 
    1993;
        (3) certain lands which comprise approximately eighty thousand 
    four hundred and thirty acres, as generally depicted on two maps 
    entitled ``Soda Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 1'', dated May 1991, 
    and ``Soda Mountains Wilderness--Proposed 2'', dated January 1989;
        (4) certain lands which compromise approximately twenty-three 
    thousand two hundred and fifty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``South Avawatz Mountains--Proposed'', dated May 1991;
        (5) certain lands which comprise approximately seventeen 
    thousand two hundred and eighty acres, as generally depicted on a 
    map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Boundary and Wilderness 
    17--Proposed'', dated July 1993;
        (6) certain lands which comprise approximately eight thousand 
    eight hundred acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Great Falls Basin Wilderness--Proposed'', dated February 1986; 
    and
        (7) certain lands which comprise approximately eighty-four 
    thousand four hundred acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Cady Mountains Wilderness--Proposed'', dated July 1993.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
lands referred to in subsection (b) are hereby withdrawn from all forms 
of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws; from 
location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws; and 
from disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal 
leasing, and mineral materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 105. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREA.

    In furtherance of the provisions of the Wilderness Act, certain 
lands in the California Desert Conservation Area, of the Bureau of Land 
Management, which comprise approximately eleven thousand two hundred 
acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``White Mountains 
Wilderness Study Area--Proposed'', dated May 1991, are hereby 
designated as the White Mountains Wilderness Study Area and shall be 
administered by the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of 
section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1782).

SEC. 106. SUITABILITY REPORT.

    The Secretary is required, ten years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, to report to Congress on current and planned exploration, 
development or mining activities on, and suitability for future 
wilderness designation of, the lands as generally depicted on maps 
entitled ``Surprise Canyon Wilderness--Proposed'', ``Middle Park Canyon 
Wilderness--Proposed'', and ``Death Valley National Park Boundary and 
Wilderness 15'', dated September 1991 and a map entitled ``Manly Peak 
Wilderness--Proposed'', dated October 1991.

SEC. 107. DESERT LILY SANCTUARY.

    (a) Designation.--There is hereby established the Desert Lily 
Sanctuary within the California Desert Conservation Area, California, 
of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately two thousand 
forty acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Desert Lily 
Sanctuary'', dated February 1986. The Secretary shall administer the 
area to provide maximum protection to the desert lily.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the Desert Lily Sanctuary are hereby withdrawn from all 
forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws; 
from location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws; 
and from disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
geothermal leasing, and mineral materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 108. DINOSAUR TRACKWAY AREA OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN.

    (a) Designation.--There is hereby established the Dinosaur Trackway 
Area of Critical Environmental Concern within the California Desert 
Conservation Area, of the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
approximately five hundred and ninety acres as generally depicted on a 
map entitled ``Dinosaur Trackway Area of Critical Environmental 
Concern'', dated July 1993. The Secretary shall administer the area to 
preserve the paleontological resources within the area.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
lands within and adjacent to the Dinosaur Trackway Area of Critical 
Environmental Concern, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
``Dinosaur Trackway Mineral Withdrawal Area'', dated July 1993, are 
hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
under the public land laws; from location, entry, and patent under the 
United States mining laws; and from disposition under all laws 
pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and mineral materials, 
and all amendments thereto.

  TITLE II--DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE 
                UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

SEC. 201. DESIGNATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act, the following lands are hereby designated as wilderness and 
therefore, as components of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
        (1) Certain lands in the Havasu National Wildlife Refuge, 
    California, which comprise approximately three thousand one hundred 
    and ninety-five acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Havasu Wilderness--Proposed'', and dated October 1991, and which 
    shall be known as the Havasu Wilderness.
        (2) Certain lands in the Imperial National Wildlife Refuge, 
    California, which comprise approximately five thousand eight 
    hundred and thirty-six acres, as generally depicted on two maps 
    entitled ``Imperial Refuge Wilderness--Proposed 1'' and ``Imperial 
    Refuge Wilderness--Proposed 2'', and dated October 1991, and which 
    shall be known as the Imperial Refuge Wilderness.
    (b) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated under this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act 
governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any 
reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness 
Act (or any similar reference) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Maps and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable after 
enactment of this title, the Secretary shall file a map and a legal 
description of each wilderness area designated under this section with 
the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Environment and 
Public Works of the United States Senate and Natural Resources and 
Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the United States House of 
Representatives. Such map and description shall have the same force and 
effect as if included in this Act, except that correction of clerical 
and typographical errors in such legal description and map may be made. 
Such map and legal description shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the Office of the Director, United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior.

SEC. 202. NO EFFECT ON COLORADO RIVER DAMS.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the operation of 
federally owned dams located on the Colorado River in the Lower Basin.

SEC. 203. NO EFFECT ON UPPER BASIN.

    Nothing in this Act shall amend, construe, supersede, or preempt 
any State law, Federal law, interstate compact, or international treaty 
pertaining to the Colorado River (including its tributaries) in the 
Upper Basin, including, but not limited to the appropriation, use, 
development, storage, regulation, allocation, conservation, 
exportation, or quality of those rivers.

SEC. 204. COLORADO RIVER.

    With respect to the Havasu and Imperial wilderness areas designated 
by subsection 201(a) of this title, no rights to water of the Colorado 
River are reserved, either expressly, impliedly, or otherwise.

                 TITLE III--DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    The Congress hereby finds that--
        (1) proclamations by Presidents Herbert Hoover in 1933 and 
    Franklin Roosevelt in 1937 established and expanded the Death 
    Valley National Monument for the preservation of the unusual 
    features of scenic, scientific, and educational interest therein 
    contained;
        (2) Death Valley National Monument is today recognized as a 
    major unit of the National Park System, having extraordinary values 
    enjoyed by millions of visitors;
        (3) the monument boundaries established in the 1930's exclude 
    and thereby expose to incompatible development and inconsistent 
    management, contiguous Federal lands of essential and superlative 
    natural, ecological, geological, archeological, paleontological, 
    cultural, historical ad wilderness values;
        (4) Death Valley National Monument should be substantially 
    enlarged by the addition of all contiguous Federal lands of 
    national park caliber and afforded full recognition and statutory 
    protection as a National Park; and
        (5) the wilderness within Death Valley should receive maximum 
    statutory protection by designation pursuant to the Wilderness Act.

SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK.

    There is hereby established the Death Valley National Park 
(hereinafter in this title referred to as the ``park'') as generally 
depicted on twenty-three maps entitled ``Death Valley National Park 
Boundary and Wilderness--Proposed'', numbered in the title one through 
twenty-three, and dated July 1993 or prior, which shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the offices of the Superintendent of 
the park and the Director of the National Park Service, Department of 
the Interior. The Death Valley National Monument is hereby abolished as 
such, the lands and interests therein are hereby incorporated within 
and made part of the new Death Valley National Park, and any funds 
available for purposes of the monument shall be available for purposes 
of the park.

SEC. 303. TRANSFER AND ADMINISTRATION OF LANDS.

    Upon enactment of this title, the Secretary shall transfer the 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management depicted 
in the maps described in section 302 of this title, without 
consideration, to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park 
Service for administration as part of the National Park System, and the 
boundary of the park shall be adjusted accordingly. The Secretary shall 
administer the areas added to the park by this title in accordance with 
the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National 
Park System, including the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a 
National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 
1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4).

SEC. 304. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    Within six months after the enactment of this title, the Secretary 
shall file maps and a legal description of the park designated under 
this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
United States House of Representatives. Such maps and legal description 
shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title, 
except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors 
in such legal description and in the maps referred to in section 302. 
The maps and legal description shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the offices of the Superintendent of the park and 
the Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

SEC. 305. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the park 
are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or 
disposal under the public land laws; from location, entry, and patent 
under the United States mining laws; and from disposition under all 
laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and mineral 
materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 306. GRAZING.

    (a) In General.--The privilege of grazing domestic livestock on 
lands within the park shall continue to be exercised at no more than 
the current level, subject to applicable laws and National Park Service 
regulations.
    (b) Sale of Property.--If a person holding a grazing permit 
referred to in subsection (a) informs the Secretary that such permittee 
is willing to convey to the United States any base property with 
respect to which such permit was issued and to which such permittee 
holds title, the Secretary shall make the acquisition of such base 
property a priority as compared with the acquisition of other lands 
within the park, provided agreement can be reached concerning the terms 
and conditions of such acquisition. Any such base property which is 
located outside the park and acquired as a priority pursuant to this 
section shall be managed by the Federal agency responsible for the 
majority of the adjacent lands in accordance with the laws applicable 
to such adjacent lands.

SEC. 307. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Commission of no more 
than fifteen members, to advise the Secretary concerning the 
development and implementation of a new or revised comprehensive 
management plan for Death Valley National Park.
    (b)(1) The advisory commission shall include an elected official 
for each County within which any part of the park is located, a 
representative of the owners of private properties located within or 
immediately adjacent to the park, and other members representing 
persons actively engaged in grazing and range management, mineral 
exploration and development, and persons with expertise in relevant 
fields, including geology, biology, ecology, law enforcement, and the 
protection and management of National Park resources and values.
    (2) Vacancies in the advisory commission shall be filled by the 
Secretary so as to maintain the full diversity of views required to be 
represented on the advisory commission.
    (c) The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall apply to the 
procedures and activities of the advisory commission.
    (d) The advisory commission shall cease to exist ten years after 
the date of its establishment.

SEC. 308. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    In preparing the maps and legal descriptions required by sections 
304 and 602 of this Act, the Secretary shall adjust the boundaries of 
the Death Valley National Park and Death Valley National Park 
Wilderness so as to exclude from such National Park and Wilderness the 
lands generally depicted on the map entitled ``Porter Mine (Panamint 
Range) Exclusion Area'' dated June 1994.

                  TITLE IV--JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK

SEC. 401. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
        (1) a proclamation by President Franklin Roosevelt in 1936 
    established Joshua Tree National Monument to protect various 
    objects of historical and scientific interest;
        (2) Joshua Tree National Monument today is recognized as a 
    major unit of the National Park System, having extraordinary values 
    enjoyed by millions of visitors;
        (3) the monument boundaries as modified in 1950 and 1961 
    exclude and thereby expose to incompatible development and 
    inconsistent management, contiguous Federal lands of essential and 
    superlative natural, ecological, archeological, paleontological, 
    cultural, historical, and wilderness values;
        (4) Joshua Tree National Monument should be enlarged by the 
    addition of contiguous Federal lands of national park caliber, and 
    afforded full recognition and statutory protection as a National 
    Park; and
        (5) the nondesignated wilderness within Joshua Tree should 
    receive statutory protection by designation pursuant to the 
    Wilderness Act.

SEC. 402. ESTABLISHMENT OF JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK.

    There is hereby established the Joshua Tree National Park, 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``park''), as generally 
depicted on a map entitled ``Joshua Tree National Park Boundary--
Proposed'', dated May 1991, and four maps entitled ``Joshua Tree 
National Park Boundary and Wilderness'', numbered in the title one 
through four, and dated October 1991 or prior, which shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in the offices of the 
Superintendent of the park and the Director of the National Park 
Service, Department of the Interior. The Joshua Tree National Monument 
is hereby abolished as such, the lands and interests therein are hereby 
incorporated within and made part of the new Joshua Tree National Park, 
and any funds available for purposes of the monument shall be available 
for purposes of the park.

SEC. 403. TRANSFER AND ADMINISTRATION OF LANDS.

    Upon enactment of this title, the Secretary shall transfer the 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management depicted 
on the maps described in section 402 of this title, without 
consideration, to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park 
Service for administration as part of the National Park System. The 
boundaries of the park shall be adjusted accordingly. The Secretary 
shall administer the areas added to the park by this title in 
accordance with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of 
the National Park System, including the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved 
August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4).

SEC. 404. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    Within six months after the date of enactment of this title, the 
Secretary shall file maps and legal description of the park with the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate 
and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives. Such maps and legal description shall have the same 
force and effect as if included in this title, except that the 
Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in such legal 
description and maps. The maps and legal description shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

SEC. 405. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the park 
are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or 
disposal under the public land laws; from location, entry, and patent 
under the United States mining laws; and from disposition under all 
laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and mineral 
materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 406. UTILITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating any 
validly issued right-of-way or customary operation, maintenance, 
repair, and replacement activities in such right-of-way, issued, 
granted, or permitted to the Metropolitan Water District pursuant to 
the Boulder Canyon Project Act (43 U.S.C. 617-619b), which is located 
on lands included in the Joshua Tree National Park, but outside lands 
designated as wilderness under section 601(a)(2). Such activities shall 
be conducted in a manner which will minimize the impact on park 
resources. Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating 
the fee title to lands or customary operation, maintenance, repair, and 
replacement activities on or under such lands granted to the 
Metropolitan Water District pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1932 (47 
Stat. 324), which are located on lands included in the Joshua Tree 
National Park, but outside lands designated as wilderness under section 
601(a)(2). Such activities shall be conducted in a manner which will 
minimize the impact on park resources. The Secretary shall prepare 
within one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, in consultation with the Metropolitan Water District, plans for 
emergency access by the Metropolitan Water District to its lands and 
rights-of-way.

SEC. 407. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Commission of no more 
than fifteen members, to advise the Secretary concerning the 
development and implementation of a new or revised comprehensive 
management plan for Joshua Tree National Park.
    (b)(1) The advisory commission shall include an elected official 
for each County within which any part of the park is located, a 
representative of the owners of private properties located within or 
immediately adjacent to the park, and other members representing 
persons actively engaged in grazing and range management, mineral 
exploration and development, and persons with expertise in relevant 
fields, including geology, biology, ecology, law enforcement, and the 
protection and management of National Park resources and values.
    (2) Vacancies in the advisory commission shall be filled by the 
Secretary so as to maintain the full diversity of views required to be 
represented on the advisory commission.
    (c) The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall apply to the 
procedures and activities of the advisory commission.
    (d) The advisory commission shall cease to exist ten years after 
the date of its establishment.

                   TITLE V--MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE

SEC. 501. FINDINGS.

    The Congress hereby finds that--
        (1) Death Valley and Joshua Tree National Parks, as established 
    by this Act, protect unique and superlative desert resources, but 
    do not embrace the particular ecosystems and transitional desert 
    type found in the Mojave Desert area lying between them on public 
    lands now afforded only impermanent administrative designation as a 
    national scenic area;
        (2) the Mojave Desert area possesses outstanding natural, 
    cultural, historical, and recreational values meriting statutory 
    designation and recognition as a unit of the National Park System;
        (3) the Mojave Desert area should be afforded full recognition 
    and statutory protection as a national preserve;
        (4) the wilderness within the Mojave Desert should receive 
    maximum statutory protection by designation pursuant to the 
    Wilderness Act; and
        (5) the Mojave Desert area provides an outstanding opportunity 
    to develop services, programs, accommodations and facilities to 
    ensure the use and enjoyment of the area by individuals with 
    disabilities, consistent with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act 
    of 1973, Public Law 101-336, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 
    1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101), and other appropriate laws and regulations.

SEC. 502. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    There is hereby established the Mojave National Preserve, 
comprising approximately one million four hundred nineteen thousand 
eight hundred acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Mojave 
National Park Boundary--Proposed'', dated May 17, 1994, which shall be 
on file and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

SEC. 503. TRANSFER OF LANDS.

    Upon enactment of this title, the Secretary shall transfer the 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management depicted 
on the maps described in section 502 of this title, without 
consideration, to the administrative jurisdiction of the Director of 
the National Park Service. The boundaries of the public lands shall be 
adjusted accordingly.

SEC. 504. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    Within six months after the date of enactment of this title, the 
Secretary shall file maps and a legal description of the preserve 
designated under this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives. Such maps and 
legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in this title, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
typographical errors in such legal description and in the maps referred 
to in section 502. The maps and legal description shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

SEC. 505. ABOLISHMENT OF SCENIC AREA.

    The East Mojave National Scenic Area, designated on January 13, 
1981 (46 FR 3994), and modified on August 9, 1983 (48 FR 36210), is 
hereby abolished.

SEC. 506. ADMINISTRATION OF LANDS.

    (a) The Secretary shall administer the preserve in accordance with 
this title and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units 
of the National Park System, including the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved 
August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4).
    (b) The Secretary shall permit hunting, fishing, and trapping on 
lands and waters within the preserve designated by this Act in 
accordance with applicable Federal and State laws except that the 
Secretary may designate areas where, and establish periods when, no 
hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted for reasons of public 
safety, administration, or compliance with provisions of applicable 
law. Except in emergencies, regulations closing areas to hunting, 
fishing, or trapping pursuant to this subsection shall be put into 
effect only after consultation with the appropriate State agency having 
responsibility for fish and wildlife. Nothing in this Act shall be 
construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the 
States with respect to fish and wildlife on Federal lands and waters 
covered by this title nor shall anything in this Act be construed as 
authorizing the Secretary concerned to require a Federal permit to 
hunt, fish, or trap on Federal lands and waters covered by this title.

SEC. 507. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the 
preserve are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, 
or disposal under the public land laws; from location, entry, and 
patent under the United States mining laws; and from disposition under 
all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing, and mineral 
materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 508. REGULATION OF MINING.

    Subject to valid existing rights, all mining claims located within 
the preserve shall be subject to all applicable laws and regulations 
applicable to mining within units of the National Park System, 
including the Mining in the Parks Act (16 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), and any 
patent issued after the date of enactment of this title shall convey 
title only to the minerals together with the right to use the surface 
of lands for mining purposes, subject to such laws and regulations.

SEC. 509. STUDY AS TO VALIDITY OF MINING CLAIMS.

    (a) The Secretary shall not approve any plan of operation prior to 
determining the validity of the unpatented mining claims, mill sites, 
and tunnel sites affected by such plan within the preserve and shall 
submit to Congress recommendations as to whether any valid or patented 
claims should be acquired by the United States, including the estimated 
acquisition costs of such claims, and a discussion of the environmental 
consequences of the extraction of minerals from these lands.
    (b)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall permit the holder or holders of mining claims identified on the 
records of the Bureau of Land Management as Volco #A CAMC 105446, Volco 
#B CAMC 105447, Volco 1 CAMC 80155, Volco 2 CAMC 80156, Volco 3 CAMC 
170259, Volco 4 CAMC 170260, Volco 5 CAMC 78405, Volco 6 CAMC 78404, 
and Volco 7 CAMC 78403, Volco Placer 78332, to continue exploration and 
development activities on such claims for a period of two years after 
the date of enactment of this title, subject to the same regulations as 
applied to such activities on such claims on the day before such date 
of enactment.
    (2) At the end of the period specified in paragraph (1), or sooner 
if so requested by the holder or holders of the claims specified in 
such paragraph, the Secretary shall determine whether there has been a 
discovery of valuable minerals on such claims and whether, if such 
discovery had been made on or before July 1, 1994, such claims would 
have been valid as of such date under the mining laws of the United 
States in effect on such date.
    (3) If the Secretary, pursuant to paragraph (2), makes an 
affirmative determination concerning the claims specified in paragraph 
(1), the holder or holders of such claims shall be permitted to 
continue to operate such claims subject only to such regulations as 
applied on July 1, 1994 to the exercise of valid existing rights on 
patented mining claims within a unit of the National Park System.

SEC. 510. GRAZING.

    (a) The privilege of grazing domestic livestock on lands within the 
preserve shall continue to be exercised at no more than the current 
level, subject to applicable laws and National Park Service 
regulations.
    (b) If a person holding a grazing permit referred to in subsection 
(a) informs the Secretary that such permittee is willing to convey to 
the United States any base property with respect to which such permit 
was issued and to which such permittee holds title, the Secretary shall 
make the acquisition of such base property a priority as compared with 
the acquisition of other lands within the preserve, provided agreement 
can be reached concerning the terms and conditions of such acquisition. 
Any such base property which is located outside the preserve and 
acquired as a priority pursuant to this section shall be managed by the 
Federal agency responsible for the majority of the adjacent lands in 
accordance with the laws applicable to such adjacent lands.

SEC. 511. UTILITY RIGHTS OF WAY.

    (a)(1) Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating 
any validly issued right-of-way or customary operation, maintenance, 
repair, and replacement activities in such right-of-way, issued, 
granted, or permitted to Southern California Edison Company, its 
successors or assigns, which is located on lands included in the Mojave 
National Preserve, but outside lands designated as wilderness under 
section 601(a)(3). Such activities shall be conducted in a manner which 
will minimize the impact on preserve resources.
    (2) Nothing in this title shall have the effect of prohibiting the 
upgrading of an existing electrical transmission line for the purpose 
of increasing the capacity of such transmission line in the Southern 
California Edison Company validly issued Eldorado-Lugo Transmission 
Line right-of-way and Mojave-Lugo Transmission Line right-of-way, or in 
a right-of-way if issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary 
adjacent to the existing Mojave-Lugo Transmission Line right-of-way 
(hereafter in this section referred to as ``adjacent right-of-way''), 
including construction of a replacement transmission line: Provided, 
That--
        (A) in the Eldorado-Lugo Transmission Line rights-of-way 
    (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Eldorado rights-of-
    way'') at no time shall there be more than three electrical 
    transmission lines;
        (B) in the Mojave-Lugo Transmission Line right-of-way 
    (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Mojave right-of-
    way'') and adjacent right-of-way, removal of the existing 
    electrical transmission line and reclamation of the site shall be 
    completed no later than three years after the date on which 
    construction of the upgraded transmission line begins, after which 
    time there may be only one electrical transmission line in the 
    lands encompassed by Mojave right-of-way and adjacent right-of-way;
        (C) if there are no more than two electrical transmission lines 
    in the Eldorado rights-of-way, two electrical transmission lines in 
    the lands encompassed by the Mojave right-of-way and adjacent 
    right-of-way may be allowed;
        (D) in the Eldorado rights-of-way and Mojave right-of-way no 
    additional land shall be issued, granted, or permitted for such 
    upgrade unless an addition would reduce the impacts to preserve 
    resources;
        (E) no more than 350 feet of additional land shall be issued, 
    granted, or permitted for an adjacent right-of-way to the south of 
    the Mojave right-of-way unless a greater addition would reduce the 
    impacts to preserve resources; and
        (F) such upgrade activities, including helicopter aided 
    construction, shall be conducted in a manner which will minimize 
    the impact on preserve resources.
    (3) The Secretary shall prepare within one hundred and eighty days 
after the date of enactment of this title, in consultation with the 
Southern California Edison Company, plans for emergency access by the 
Southern California Edison Company to its rights-of-way.
    (b)(1) Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating 
any validly issued right-of-way, or customary operation, maintenance, 
repair, and replacement activities in such right-of-way; prohibiting 
the upgrading of and construction on existing facilities in such right-
of-way for the purpose of increasing the capacity of the existing 
pipeline; or prohibiting the renewal of such right-of-way issued, 
granted, or permitted to the Southern California Gas Company, its 
successors or assigns, which is located on lands included in the Mojave 
National Preserve, but outside lands designated as wilderness under 
section 601(a)(3). Such activities shall be conducted in a manner which 
will minimize the impact on preserve resources.
    (2) The Secretary shall prepare within one hundred and eighty days 
after the date of enactment of this title, in consultation with the 
Southern California Gas Company, plans for emergency access by the 
Southern California Gas Company to its rights-of-way.
    (c) Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating any 
validly issued right-of-way or customary operation, maintenance, 
repair, and replacement activities of existing facilities issued, 
granted, or permitted for communications cables or lines, which are 
located on lands included in the Mojave National Preserve, but outside 
lands designated as wilderness under section 601(a)(3). Such activities 
shall be conducted in a manner which will minimize the impact on 
preserve resources.
    (d) Nothing in this title shall have the effect of terminating any 
validly issued right-of-way or customary operation, maintenance, 
repair, and replacement activities of existing facilities issued, 
granted, or permitted to Molybdenum Corporation of America; Molycorp, 
Incorporated; or Union Oil Company of California (d/b/a Unocal 
Corporation); or its successors or assigns, or prohibiting renewal of 
such right-of-way, which is located on lands included in the Mojave 
National Preserve, but outside lands designated as wilderness under 
section 601(a)(3). Such activities shall be conducted in a manner which 
will minimize the impact on preserve resources.

SEC. 512. PREPARATION OF MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    Within three years after the date of enactment of this title, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the United States House of Representatives a detailed and comprehensive 
management plan for the preserve. Such plan shall place emphasis on 
historical and cultural sites and ecological and wilderness values 
within the boundaries of the preserve. Such plan shall evaluate the 
feasibility of using the Kelso Depot and existing railroad corridor to 
provide public access to and a facility for special interpretive, 
educational, and scientific programs within the preserve. Such plan 
shall specifically address the needs of individuals with disabilities 
in the design of services, programs, accommodations and facilities 
consistent with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public 
Law 101-336, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
12101), and other appropriate laws and regulations.

SEC. 513. GRANITE MOUNTAINS NATURAL RESERVE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby designated the Granite 
Mountains Natural Reserve within the preserve comprising approximately 
nine thousand acres as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Mojave 
National Park Boundary and Wilderness--Proposed 6'', dated May 1991.
    (b) Cooperative Management Agreement.--Upon enactment of this 
title, the Secretary shall enter into a cooperative management 
agreement with the University of California for the purposes of 
managing the lands within the Granite Mountains Natural Reserve. Such 
cooperative agreement shall ensure continuation of arid lands research 
and educational activities of the University of California, consistent 
with the provisions of this title and laws generally applicable to 
units of the National Park System.

SEC. 514. SODA SPRINGS DESERT STUDY CENTER.

    Upon enactment of this title, the Secretary shall enter into a 
cooperative management agreement with California State University for 
the purposes of managing facilities at the Soda Springs Desert Study 
Center. Such cooperative agreement shall ensure continuation of the 
desert research and educational activities of California State 
University, consistent with the provisions of this title and laws 
generally applicable to units of the National Park System.

SEC. 515. CONSTRUCTION OF VISITOR CENTER.

    The Secretary is authorized to construct a visitor center in the 
preserve for the purpose of providing information through appropriate 
displays, printed material, and other interpretive programs, about the 
resources of the preserve.

SEC. 516. ACQUISITION OF LANDS.

    The Secretary is authorized to acquire all lands and interest in 
lands within the boundary of the preserve by donation, purchase, or 
exchange, except that--
        (1) any lands or interests therein within the boundary of the 
    preserve which are owned by the State of California, or any 
    political subdivision thereof, may be acquired only by donation or 
    exchange except for lands managed by the California State Lands 
    Commission; and
        (2) lands or interests therein within the boundary of the 
    preserve which are not owned by the State of California or any 
    political subdivision thereof may be acquired only with the consent 
    of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines, after written 
    notice to the owner and after opportunity for comment, that the 
    property is being developed, or proposed to be developed, in a 
    manner which is detrimental to the integrity of the preserve or 
    which is otherwise incompatible with the purposes of this title: 
    Provided, however, That the construction, modification, repair, 
    improvement, or replacement of a single-family residence shall not 
    be determined to be detrimental to the integrity of the preserve or 
    incompatible with the purposes of this title.

SEC. 517. ACQUIRED LANDS TO BE MADE PART OF MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    Any lands acquired by the Secretary under this title shall become 
part of the Mojave National Preserve.

SEC. 518. MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Commission of no more 
than fifteen members, to advise the Secretary concerning the 
development and implementation of a new or revised comprehensive 
management plan for the Mojave National Preserve.
    (b)(1) The advisory commission shall include an elected official 
for each County within which any part of the preserve is located, a 
representative of the owners of private properties located within or 
immediately adjacent to the preserve, and other members representing 
persons actively engaged in grazing and range management, mineral 
exploration and development, and persons with expertise in relevant 
fields, including geology, biology, ecology, law enforcement, and the 
protection and management of National Park resources and values.
    (2) Vacancies in the advisory commission shall be filled by the 
Secretary so as to maintain the full diversity of views required to be 
represented on the advisory commission.
    (c) The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall apply to the 
procedures and activities of the advisory commission.
    (d) The advisory commission shall cease to exist ten years after 
the date of its establishment.

SEC. 519. NO ADVERSE AFFECT ON LAND UNTIL ACQUIRED.

    Unless and until acquired by the United States, no lands within the 
boundaries of wilderness areas or National Park System units designated 
or enlarged by this Act that are owned by any person or entity other 
than the United States shall be subject to any of the rules or 
regulations applicable solely to the Federal lands within such 
boundaries and may be used to the extent allowed by applicable law. 
Neither the location of such lands within such boundaries nor the 
possible acquisition of such lands by the United States shall 
constitute a bar to the otherwise lawful issuance of any Federal 
license or permit other than a license or permit related to activities 
governed by 16 U.S.C. 460l-22(c). Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as affecting the applicability of any provision of the Mining 
in the Parks Act (16 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
7401 et seq.), or regulations applicable to oil and gas development as 
set forth in 36 CFR 9B.

               TITLE VI--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM WILDERNESS

SEC. 601. DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 
890; 16 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.), the following lands within the units of 
the National Park System designated by this Act are hereby designated 
as wilderness, and therefore, as components of the National Wilderness 
Preservation System:
        (1) Death Valley National Park Wilderness, comprising 
    approximately three million one hundred fifty-eight thousand 
    thirty-eight acres, as generally depicted on twenty-three maps 
    entitled ``Death Valley National Park Boundary and Wilderness'', 
    numbered in the title one through twenty-three, and dated October 
    1993 or prior, and three maps entitled ``Death Valley National Park 
    Wilderness'', numbered in the title one through three, and dated 
    July 1993 or prior, and which shall be known as the Death Valley 
    Wilderness.
        (2) Joshua Tree National Park Wilderness Additions, comprising 
    approximately one hundred thirty-one thousand seven hundred and 
    eighty acres, as generally depicted on four maps entitled ``Joshua 
    Tree National Park Boundary and Wilderness--Proposed'', numbered in 
    the title one through four, and dated October 1991 or prior, and 
    which are hereby incorporated in, and which shall be deemed to be a 
    part of the Joshua Tree Wilderness as designated by Public Law 94-
    567.
        (3) Mojave National Preserve Wilderness, comprising 
    approximately six hundred ninety-five thousand two hundred acres, 
    as generally depicted on ten maps entitled ``Mojave National Park 
    Boundary and Wilderness--Proposed'', and numbered in the title one 
    through ten, and dated March 1994 or prior, and seven maps entitled 
    ``Mojave National Park Wilderness--Proposed'', numbered in the 
    title one through seven, and dated March 1994 or prior, and which 
    shall be known as the Mojave Wilderness.
    (b) Potential Wilderness.--Upon cessation of all uses prohibited by 
the Wilderness Act and publication by the Secretary in the Federal 
Register of notice of such cessation, potential wilderness, comprising 
approximately six thousand eight hundred and forty acres, as described 
in ``1988 Death Valley National Monument Draft General Management Plan 
Draft Environmental Impact Statement'' (hereafter in this title 
referred to as ``Draft Plan'') and as generally depicted on map in the 
Draft Plan entitled ``Wilderness Plan Death Valley National Monument'', 
dated January 1988, and which shall be deemed to be a part of the Death 
Valley Wilderness as designated in paragraph (a)(1). Lands identified 
in the Draft Plan as potential wilderness shall be managed by the 
Secretary insofar as practicable as wilderness until such time as said 
lands are designated as wilderness.

SEC. 602. FILING OF MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.

    Maps and a legal description of the boundaries of the areas 
designated in section 601 of this title shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service, Department of the Interior. As soon as practicable after the 
date of enactment of this title, maps and legal descriptions of the 
wilderness areas shall be filed with the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives, and 
such maps and legal descriptions shall have the same force and effect 
as if included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
clerical and typographical errors in such maps and legal descriptions.

SEC. 603. ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.

    The areas designated by section 601 of this title as wilderness 
shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of the Wilderness Act governing areas designated 
by that title as wilderness, except that any reference in such 
provision to the effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the effective date of this title, and where 
appropriate, and reference to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the Secretary of the Interior.

                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 701. TRANSFER OF LANDS TO RED ROCK CANYON STATE PARK.

    Upon enactment of this title, the Secretary shall transfer to the 
State of California certain lands within the California Desert 
Conservation Area, California, of the Bureau of Land Management, 
comprising approximately twenty thousand five hundred acres, as 
generally depicted on two maps entitled ``Red Rock Canyon State Park 
Additions 1'' and ``Red Rock Canyon State Park Additions 2'', dated May 
1991, for inclusion in the State of California Park System. Should the 
State of California cease to manage these lands as part of the State 
Park System, ownership of the lands shall revert to the Department of 
the Interior to be managed as part of California Desert Conservation 
Area to provide maximum protection for the area's scenic and scientific 
values.

SEC. 702. LAND TENURE ADJUSTMENTS.

    In preparing land tenure adjustment decisions with the California 
Desert Conservation Area, of the Bureau of Land Management, the 
Secretary shall give priority to consolidating Federal ownership within 
the national park units and wilderness areas designated by this Act.

SEC. 703. LAND DISPOSAL.

    Except as provided in section 406 of this Act, none of the lands 
within the boundaries of the wilderness or park areas designated under 
this Act shall be granted to or otherwise made available for use by the 
Metropolitan Water District or any other agencies or persons pursuant 
to the Boulder Canyon Project Act (43 U.S.C. 617-619b) or any similar 
Acts.

SEC. 704. MANAGEMENT OF NEWLY ACQUIRED LANDS.

    Any lands within the boundaries of a wilderness area designated 
under this Act which are acquired by the Federal Government, shall 
become part of the wilderness area within which they are located and 
shall be managed in accordance with all the provisions of this Act and 
other laws applicable to such wilderness area.

SEC. 705. NATIVE AMERICAN USES AND INTERESTS.

    (a) Access.--In recognition of the past use of the National Park 
System units and wilderness areas designed under this Act by Indian 
people for traditional cultural and religious purposes, the Secretary 
shall ensure access to such park system units and wilderness areas by 
Indian people for such traditional cultural and religious purposes. In 
implementing this section, the Secretary, upon the request of an Indian 
tribe or Indian religious community, shall temporarily close to the 
general public use of one or more specific portions of the park system 
unit or wilderness area in order to protect the privacy of traditional 
cultural and religious activities in such areas by Indian people. Any 
such closure shall be made to affect the smallest practicable area for 
the minimum period necessary for such purposes. Such access shall be 
consistent with the purpose and intent of Public Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 
1996) commonly referred to as the ``American Indian Religious Freedom 
Act'', and with respect to areas designated as wilderness, the 
Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890; 16 U.S.C. 1131).
    (b) Study.--(1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Timbisha 
Shoshone Tribe and relevant Federal agencies, shall conduct a study, 
subject to the availability of appropriations, to identify lands 
suitable for a reservation for the Timbisha Shoshone Tribe that are 
located within the Tribe's aboriginal homeland area within and outside 
the boundaries of the Death Valley National Monument and the Death 
Valley National Park, as described in title III of this Act.
    (2) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
title, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the United 
States Senate, and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives on the results of the study conducted 
under paragraph (1).

SEC. 706. FEDERAL RESERVED WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Except as otherwise provided in section 204 of this Act, with 
respect to each wilderness area designated by this Act, Congress hereby 
reserves a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill the purposes of this 
Act. The priority date of such reserved water rights shall be the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    (b) The Secretary and all other officers of the United States shall 
take all steps necessary to protect the rights reserved by this 
section, including the filing by the Secretary of a claim for the 
quantification of such rights in any present or future appropriate 
stream adjudication in the courts of the State of California in which 
the United States is or may be joined in accordance with section 208 of 
the Act of July 10, 1952 (66 Stat. 560, 43 U.S.C. 666), commonly 
referred to as the McCarran Amendment.
    (c) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as a relinquishment or 
reduction of any water rights reserved or appropriated by the United 
States in the State of California on or before the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) The Federal water rights reserved by this Act are specific to 
the wilderness area located in the State of California designated under 
this Act. Nothing in this Act related to the reserved Federal water 
rights shall be construed as establishing a precedent with regard to 
any future designations, nor shall it constitute an interpretation of 
any other Act or any designation made thereto.

SEC. 707. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LANDS.

    (a) Negotiations To Exchange.--Upon request of the California State 
Lands Commission (hereinafter in this section referred to as the 
``Commission''), the Secretary shall enter into negotiations for an 
agreement to exchange Federal lands or interests therein on the list 
referred to in subsection (b)(2) for California State School lands or 
interests therein which are located within the boundaries of one or 
more of the wilderness areas or park system units designated by this 
Act (hereinafter in this section referred to as ``State School 
lands.''). The Secretary shall negotiate in good faith to reach a land 
exchange agreement consistent with the requirements of section 206 of 
the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976.
    (b) Preparation of List.--Within six months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall send to the Commission and 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States 
House of Representatives a list of the following:
        (1) State School lands or interests therein (including mineral 
    interests) which are located within the boundaries of the 
    wilderness areas or park system units designated by this Act.
        (2) Lands within the State of California under the jurisdiction 
    of the Secretary that the Secretary determines to be suitable for 
    disposal for exchange, identified in the following priority--
            (A) lands with mineral interests, including geothermal, 
        which have the potential for commercial development but which 
        are not currently under mineral lease or producing Federal 
        mineral revenues;
            (B) Federal claims in California managed by the Bureau of 
        Reclamation that the Secretary determines are not needed for 
        any Bureau of Reclamation project; and
            (C) any public lands in California that the Secretary, 
        pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, 
        has determined to be suitable for disposal through exchange.
        (3) Any other Federal land, or interest therein, within the 
    State of California, which is or becomes surplus to the needs of 
    the Federal Government. The Secretary may exclude, in the 
    Secretary's discretion, lands located within, or contiguous to, the 
    exterior boundaries of lands held in trust for a federally 
    recognized Indian tribe located in the State of California.
        (4) The Secretary shall maintain such list and shall annually 
    transmit such list to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
    of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
    of the United States House of Representatives until all of the 
    State School lands identified in paragraph (1) have been acquired.
    (c) Disposal of Surplus Federal Property.--(1) Effective upon the 
date of enactment of this title and until all State School lands 
identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are acquired, no Federal 
lands or interests therein within the State of California may be 
disposed of from Federal ownership unless--
        (A) the Secretary is notified of the availability of such lands 
    or interest therein;
        (B) the Secretary has notified the Commission of the 
    availability of such lands or interests therein for exchange; and
        (C) the Commission has not notified the Secretary within six 
    months that it wishes to consider entering into an exchange for 
    such lands or interests therein.
    (2) If the Commission notifies the Secretary that it wishes to 
consider an exchange for such lands or interests therein, the Secretary 
shall attempt to conclude such exchange in accordance with the 
provisions of this section as quickly as possible.
    (3) If an agreement is reached and executed with the Commission, 
then upon notice to the head of the agency having administrative 
jurisdiction over such lands or interests therein, the Secretary shall 
be vested with administrative jurisdiction over such land or interests 
therein for the purpose of concluding such exchange.
    (4) Upon the acquisition of all State School lands or upon notice 
by the Commission to the Secretary that it no longer has an interest in 
such lands or interests therein, such lands or interests shall be 
released to the agency that originally had jurisdiction over such lands 
or interests for disposal in accordance with the laws otherwise 
applicable to such lands or interests.
    (d) No Effect on Military Base Closures.--The provisions of this 
section shall not apply to the disposal of property under title II of 
the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment 
Act (Public Law 100-526; 102 Stat. 2627; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) or the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-510; 
104 Stat. 1808; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).

SEC. 708. ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    The Secretary shall provide adequate access to nonfederally owned 
land or interests in land within the boundaries of the conservation 
units and wilderness areas designated by this Act which will provide 
the owner of such land or interest the reasonable use and enjoyment 
thereof.

SEC. 709. FEDERAL FACILITIES FEE EQUITY.

    (a) Policy Statement.--It is the intent of Congress that entrance, 
tourism or recreational use fees for use of Federal lands and 
facilities not discriminate against any State or any region of the 
country.
    (b) Fee Study.--The Secretary, in cooperation with other affected 
agencies, shall prepare and submit a report by May 1, 1996 to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate, 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives, and any other relevant committees, which shall--
        (1) identify all Federal lands and facilities that provide 
    recreational or tourism use; and
        (2) analyze by State and region any fees charged for entrance, 
    recreational or tourism use, if any, on Federal lands or facilities 
    in a State or region, individually and collectively.
    (c) Recommendations.--Following completion of the report in 
subsection (b), the Secretary, in cooperation with other affected 
agencies, shall prepare and submit a report by May 1, 1997 to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate, 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives, and any other relevant committees, which shall contain 
recommendations which the Secretary deems appropriate for implementing 
the congressional intent outlined in subsection (a).

SEC. 710. LAND APPRAISAL.

    Lands and interests in lands acquired pursuant to this Act shall be 
appraised without regard to the presence of a species listed as 
threatened or endangered pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
(16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

SEC. 711. DEFINITION.

    Any reference to the term ``this Act'' in titles I through IX shall 
be deemed to be solely a reference to sections 1 and 2, and titles I 
through IX.

               TITLE VIII--MILITARY LANDS AND OVERFLIGHTS

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE AND FINDINGS.

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``California 
Military Lands Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994''.
    (b) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) military aircraft testing and training activities as well 
    as demilitarization activities in California are an important part 
    of the national defense system of the United States, and are 
    essential in order to secure for the American people of this and 
    future generations an enduring and viable national defense system;
        (2) the National Park System units and wilderness areas 
    designated by this Act lie within a region critical to providing 
    training, research, and development for the Armed Forces of the 
    United States and its allies;
        (3) there is a lack of alternative sites available for these 
    military training, testing, and research activities;
        (4) continued use of the lands and airspace in the California 
    desert region is essential for military purposes; and
        (5) continuation of these military activities, under 
    appropriate terms and conditions, is not incompatible with the 
    protection and proper management of the natural, environmental, 
    cultural, and other resources and values of the Federal lands in 
    the California desert area.

SEC. 802. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    (a) Overflights.--Nothing in this Act, the Wilderness Act, or other 
land management laws generally applicable to the new units of the 
National Park or Wilderness Preservation Systems (or any additions to 
existing units) designated by this Act, shall restrict or preclude low-
level overflights of military aircraft over such units, including 
military overflights that can be seen or heard within such units.
    (b) Special Airspace.--Nothing in this Act, the Wilderness Act, or 
other land management laws generally applicable to the new units of the 
National Park or Wilderness Preservation Systems (or any additions to 
existing units) designated by this Act, shall restrict or preclude the 
designation of new units of special airspace or the use or 
establishment of military flight training routes over such new park 
system or wilderness units.
    (c) No Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to modify, expand, or diminish any authority under other 
Federal law.

SEC. 803. WITHDRAWALS.

    (a) China Lake.--(1) Subject to valid existing rights and except as 
otherwise provided in this title, the Federal lands referred to in 
paragraph (2), and all other areas within the boundary of such lands as 
depicted on the map specified in such paragraph which may become 
subject to the operation of the public land laws, are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws (including 
the mining laws and the mineral leasing laws). Such lands are reserved 
for use by the Secretary of the Navy for--
        (A) use as a research, development, test, and evaluation 
    laboratory;
        (B) use as a range for air warfare weapons and weapon systems;
        (C) use as a high hazard training area for aerial gunnery, 
    rocketry, electronic warfare and countermeasures, tactical 
    maneuvering and air support;
        (D) geothermal leasing and development and related power 
    production activities; and
        (E) subject to the requirements of section 804(f) of this 
    title, other defense-related purposes consistent with the purposes 
    specified in this paragraph.
    (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are the Federal lands 
located within the boundaries of the China Lake Naval Weapons Center, 
comprising approximately one million one hundred thousand acres in 
Inyo, Kern, and San Bernardino Counties, California, as generally 
depicted on a map entitled ``China Lake Naval Weapons Center 
Withdrawal--Proposed'', dated January 1985.
    (b) Chocolate Mountain.--(1) Subject to valid existing rights and 
except as otherwise provided in this title, the Federal lands referred 
to in paragraph (2), and all other areas within the boundary of such 
lands as depicted on the map specified in such paragraph which may 
become subject to the operation of the public land laws, are hereby 
withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws 
(including the mining laws and the mineral leasing and the geothermal 
leasing laws). Such lands are reserved for use by the Secretary of the 
Navy for--
        (A) testing and training for aerial bombing, missile firing, 
    tactical maneuvering and air support; and
        (B) subject to the provisions of section 804(f) of this title, 
    other defense-related purposes consistent with the purposes 
    specified in this paragraph.
    (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are the Federal lands 
comprising approximately two hundred twenty-six thousand seven hundred 
and eleven acres in Imperial County, California, as generally depicted 
on a map entitled ``Chocolate Mountain Aerial Gunnery Range Proposed--
Withdrawal'' dated July 1993.

SEC. 804. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Publication and Filing Requirement.--As soon as practicable 
after the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall--
        (1) publish in the Federal Register a notice containing the 
    legal description of the lands withdrawn and reserved by this 
    title; and
        (2) file maps and the legal description of the lands withdrawn 
    and reserved by this title with the Committee on Energy and Natural 
    Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural 
    Resources of the United States House of Representatives.
    (b) Technical Corrections.--Such maps and legal descriptions shall 
have the same force and effect as if they were included in this title 
except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors 
in such maps and legal descriptions.
    (c) Availability for Public Inspection.--Copies of such maps and 
legal descriptions shall be available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management; the office of the 
commander of the Naval Weapons Center, China Lake, California; the 
office of the commanding officer, Marine Corps Air Station, Yuma, 
Arizona; and the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Washington, 
District of Columbia.
    (d) Reimbursement.--The Secretary of Defense shall reimburse the 
Secretary for the cost of implementing this section.

SEC. 805. MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN LANDS.

    (a) Management by the Secretary of the Interior.--(1) Except as 
provided in subsection (g), during the period of the withdrawal the 
Secretary shall manage the lands withdrawn under section 802 of this 
title pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other applicable law, including this 
title.
    (2) To the extent consistent with applicable law and Executive 
orders, the lands withdrawn under section 802 of this title may be 
managed in a manner permitting--
        (A) the continuation of grazing pursuant to applicable law and 
    Executive orders were permitted on the date of enactment of this 
    title;
        (B) protection of wildlife and wildlife habitat;
        (C) control of predatory and other animals;
        (D) recreation (but only on lands withdrawn by section 802(a) 
    of this title (relating to China Lake));
        (E) the prevention and appropriate suppression of brush and 
    range fires resulting from nonmilitary activities; and
        (F) geothermal leasing and development and related power 
    production activities on the lands withdrawn under section 802(a) 
    of this title (relating to China Lake).
    (3)(A) All nonmilitary use of such lands, including the uses 
described in paragraph (2), shall be subject to such conditions and 
restrictions as may be necessary to permit the military use of such 
lands for the purposes specified in or authorized pursuant to this 
title.
    (B) The Secretary may issue any lease, easement, right-of-way, or 
other authorization with respect to the nonmilitary use of such lands 
only with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Navy.
    (b) Closure to Public.--(1) If the Secretary of the Navy determines 
that military operations, public safety, or national security require 
the closure to public use of any road, trail, or other portion of the 
lands withdrawn by this title, the Secretary may take such action as 
the Secretary determines necessary or desirable to effect and maintain 
such closure.
    (2) Any such closure shall be limited to the minimum areas and 
periods which the Secretary of the Navy determines are required to 
carry out this subsection.
    (3) Before and during any closure under this subsection, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall--
        (A) keep appropriate warning notices posted; and
        (B) take appropriate steps to notify the public concerning such 
    closures.
    (c) Management Plan.--The Secretary (after consultation with the 
Secretary of the Navy) shall develop a plan for the management of each 
area withdrawn under section 802 of this title during the period of 
such withdrawal. Each plan shall--
        (1) be consistent with applicable law;
        (2) be subject to conditions and restrictions specified in 
    subsection (a)(3);
        (3) include such provisions as may be necessary for proper 
    management and protection of the resources and values of such area; 
    and
        (4) be developed not later than three years after the date of 
    enactment of this title.
    (d) Brush and Range Fires.--The Secretary of the Navy shall take 
necessary precautions to prevent and suppress brush and range fires 
occurring within and outside the lands withdrawn under section 802 of 
this title as a result of military activities and may seek assistance 
from the Bureau of Land Management in the suppression of such fires. 
The memorandum of understanding required by subsection (e) shall 
provide for Bureau of Land Management assistance in the suppression of 
such fires, and for a transfer of funds from the Department of the Navy 
to the Bureau of Land Management as compensation for such assistance.
    (e) Memorandum of Understanding.--(1) The Secretary and the 
Secretary of the Navy shall (with respect to each land withdrawal under 
section 802 of this title) enter into a memorandum of understanding to 
implement the management plan developed under subsection (c). Any such 
memorandum of understanding shall provide that the Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management shall provide assistance in the suppression 
of fires resulting from the military use of lands withdrawn under 
section 802 if requested by the Secretary of the Navy.
    (2) The duration of any such memorandum shall be the same as the 
period of the withdrawal of the lands under section 802.
    (f) Additional Military Uses.--Lands withdrawn under section 802 of 
this title may be used for defense-related uses other than those 
specified in such section. The Secretary of Defense shall promptly 
notify the Secretary in the event that the lands withdrawn by this 
title will be used for defense-related purposes other than those 
specified in section 802. Such notification shall indicate the 
additional use or uses involved, the proposed duration of such uses, 
and the extent to which such additional military uses of the withdrawn 
lands will require that additional or more stringent conditions or 
restrictions be imposed on otherwise-permitted nonmilitary uses of the 
withdrawn land or portions thereof.
    (g) Management of China Lake.--(1) The Secretary may assign the 
management responsibility for the lands withdrawn under section 802(a) 
of this title to the Secretary of the Navy who shall manage such lands, 
and issue leases, easements, rights-of-way, and other authorizations, 
in accordance with this title and cooperative management arrangements 
between the Secretary and the Secretary of the Navy: Provided, That 
nothing in this subsection shall affect geothermal leases issued by the 
Secretary prior to the date of enactment of this title, or the 
responsibility of the Secretary to administer and manage such leases, 
consistent with the provisions of this section. In the case that the 
Secretary assigns such management responsibility to the Secretary of 
the Navy before the development of the management plan under subsection 
(c), the Secretary of the Navy (after consultation with the Secretary) 
shall develop such management plan.
    (2) The Secretary shall be responsible for the issuance of any 
lease, easement, right-of-way, and other authorization with respect to 
any activity which involves both the lands withdrawn under section 
802(a) of this title and any other lands. Any such authorization shall 
be issued only with the consent of the Secretary of the Navy and, to 
the extent that such activity involves lands withdrawn under section 
802(a), shall be subject to such conditions as the Secretary of the 
Navy may prescribe.
    (3) The Secretary of the Navy shall prepare and submit to the 
Secretary an annual report on the status of the natural and cultural 
resources and values of the lands withdrawn under section 802(a). The 
Secretary shall transmit such report to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives.
    (4) The Secretary of the Navy shall be responsible for the 
management of wild horses and burros located on the lands withdrawn 
under section 802(a) of this title and may utilize helicopters and 
motorized vehicles for such purposes. Such management shall be in 
accordance with laws applicable to such management on public lands and 
with an appropriate memorandum of understanding between the Secretary 
and the Secretary of the Navy.
    (5) Neither this title nor any other provision of law shall be 
construed to prohibit the Secretary from issuing and administering any 
lease for the development and utilization of geothermal steam and 
associated geothermal resources on the lands withdrawn under section 
802(a) of this title pursuant to the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 
U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) and other applicable law, but no such lease shall 
be issued without the concurrence of the Secretary of the Navy.
    (6) This title shall not affect the geothermal exploration and 
development authority of the Secretary of the Navy under section 2689 
of title 10, United States Code, except that the Secretary of the Navy 
shall obtain the concurrence of the Secretary before taking action 
under that section with respect to the lands withdrawn under section 
802(a).
    (7) Upon the expiration of the withdrawal or relinquishment of 
China Lake, Navy contracts for the development of geothermal resources 
at China Lake then in effect (as amended or renewed by the Navy after 
the date of enactment of this title) shall remain in effect: Provided, 
That the Secretary, with the consent of the Secretary of the Navy, may 
offer to substitute a standard geothermal lease for any such contract.

SEC. 806. DURATION OF WITHDRAWALS.

    (a) Duration.--The withdrawals and reservations established by this 
title shall terminate twenty years after the date of enactment of this 
title.
    (b) Draft Environmental Impact Statement.--No later than eighteen 
years after the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary of the 
Navy shall publish a draft environmental impact statement concerning 
continued or renewed withdrawal of any portion of the lands withdrawn 
by this title for which that Secretary intends to seek such continued 
or renewed withdrawal. Such draft environmental impact statement shall 
be consistent with the requirements of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) applicable to such a draft 
environmental impact statement. Prior to the termination date specified 
in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy shall hold a public 
hearing on any draft environmental impact statement published pursuant 
to this section. Such hearing shall be held in the State of California 
in order to receive public comments on the alternatives and other 
matters included in such draft environmental impact statement.
    (c) Extensions or Renewals.--The withdrawals established by this 
title may not be extended or renewed except by an Act or joint 
resolution of Congress.

SEC. 807. ONGOING DECONTAMINATION.

    (a) Program.--Throughout the duration of the withdrawals made by 
this title, the Secretary of the Navy, to the extent funds are made 
available, shall maintain a program of decontamination of lands 
withdrawn by this title at least at the level of decontamination 
activities performed on such lands in fiscal year 1986.
    (b) Reports.--At the same time as the President transmits to the 
Congress the President's proposed budget for the first fiscal year 
beginning after the date of enactment of this title and for each 
subsequent fiscal year, the Secretary of the Navy shall transmit to the 
Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Energy and Natural 
Resources of the United States Senate and to the Committees on 
Appropriations, Armed Services, and Natural Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives a description of the decontamination 
efforts undertaken during the previous fiscal year on such lands and 
the decontamination activities proposed for such lands during the next 
fiscal year including--
        (1) amounts appropriated and obligated or expended for 
    decontamination of such lands;
        (2) the methods used to decontaminate such lands;
        (3) amount and types of contaminants removed from such lands;
        (4) estimated types and amounts of residual contamination on 
    such lands; and
        (5) an estimate of the costs for full contamination of such 
    lands and the estimate of the time to complete such 
    decontamination.

SEC. 808. REQUIREMENTS FOR RENEWAL.

    (a) Notice and Filing.--(1) No later than three years prior to the 
termination of the withdrawal and reservation established by this 
title, the Secretary of the Navy shall advise the Secretary as to 
whether or not the Secretary of the Navy will have a continuing 
military need for any of the lands withdrawn under section 802 after 
the termination date of such withdrawal and reservation.
    (2) If the Secretary of the Navy concludes that there will be a 
continuing military need for any of such lands after the termination 
date, the Secretary of the Navy shall file an application for extension 
of the withdrawal and reservation of such needed lands in accordance 
with the regulations and procedures of the Department of the Interior 
applicable to the extension of withdrawals of lands for military uses.
    (3) If, during the period of withdrawal and reservation, the 
Secretary of the Navy decides to relinquish all or any of the lands 
withdrawn and reserved by this title, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
file a notice of intention to relinquish with the Secretary.
    (b) Contamination.--(1) Before transmitting a notice of intention 
to relinquish pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, 
acting through the Department of the Navy, shall prepare a written 
determination concerning whether and to what extent the lands that are 
to be relinquished are contaminated with explosive, toxic, or other 
hazardous materials.
    (2) A copy of such determination shall be transmitted with the 
notice of intention to relinquish.
    (3) Copies of both the notice of intention to relinquish and the 
determination concerning the contaminated state of the lands shall be 
published in the Federal Register by the Secretary of the Interior.
    (c) Decontamination.--If any land which is the subject of a notice 
of intention to relinquish pursuant to subsection (a) is contaminated, 
and the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy, 
determines that decontamination is practicable and economically 
feasible (taking into consideration the potential future use and value 
of the land) and that upon decontamination, the land could be opened to 
operation of some or all of the public land laws, including the mining 
laws, the Secretary of the Navy shall decontaminate the land to the 
extent that funds are appropriated for such purpose.
    (d) Alternatives.--If the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Secretary of the Navy, concludes that decontamination of any land which 
is the subject of a notice of intention to relinquish pursuant to 
subsection (a) is not practicable or economically feasible, or that the 
land cannot be decontaminated sufficiently to be opened to operation of 
some or all of the public land laws, or if Congress does not 
appropriate a sufficient amount of funds for the decontamination of 
such land, the Secretary shall not be required to accept the land 
proposed for relinquishment.
    (e) Status of Contaminated Lands.--If, because of their 
contaminated state, the Secretary declines to accept jurisdiction over 
lands withdrawn by this title which have been proposed for 
relinquishment, or if at the expiration of the withdrawal made by this 
title the Secretary determines that some of the lands withdrawn by this 
title are contaminated to an extent which prevents opening such 
contaminated lands to operation of the public land laws--
        (1) the Secretary of the Navy shall take appropriate steps to 
    warn the public of the contaminated state of such lands and any 
    risks associated with entry onto such lands;
        (2) after the expiration of the withdrawal, the Secretary of 
    the Navy shall undertake no activities on such lands except in 
    connection with decontamination of such lands; and
        (3) the Secretary of the Navy shall report to the Secretary and 
    to the Congress concerning the status of such lands and all actions 
    taken in furtherance of this subsection.
    (f) Revocation Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary, upon deciding that it is in the public interest to 
accept jurisdiction over lands proposed for relinquishment pursuant to 
subsection (a), is authorized to revoke the withdrawal and reservation 
established by this title as it applies to such lands. Should the 
decision be made to revoke the withdrawal and reservation, the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register an appropriate order 
which shall--
        (1) terminate the withdrawal and reservation;
        (2) constitute official acceptance of full jurisdiction over 
    the lands by the Secretary; and
        (3) state the date upon which the lands will be opened to the 
    operation of some or all of the public lands law, including the 
    mining laws.

SEC. 809. DELEGABILITY.

    (a) Department of Defense.--The functions of the Secretary of 
Defense or the Secretary of the Navy under this title may be delegated.
    (b) Department of the Interior.--The functions of the Secretary 
under this title may be delegated, except that an order described in 
section 807(f) may be approved and signed only by the Secretary, the 
Under Secretary of the Interior, or an Assistant Secretary of the 
Department of the Interior.

SEC. 810. HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING.

    All hunting, fishing, and trapping on the lands withdrawn by this 
title shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of section 
2671 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 811. IMMUNITY OF UNITED STATES.

    The United States and all departments or agencies thereof shall be 
held harmless and shall not be liable for any injury or damage to 
persons or property suffered in the course of any geothermal leasing or 
other authorized nonmilitary activity conducted on lands described in 
section 802 of this title.

SEC. 812. EL CENTRO RANGES.

    The Secretary is authorized to permit the Secretary of the Navy to 
use until January 1, 1997, the approximately forty-four thousand eight 
hundred and seventy acres of public lands in Imperial County, 
California, known as the East Mesa and West Mesa ranges, in accordance 
with the Memorandum of Understanding dated June 29, 1987, between the 
Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the 
Department of the Navy. All military uses of such lands shall cease on 
January 1, 1997, unless authorized by a subsequent Act of Congress.

               TITLE IX--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 901. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the National Park Service 
and to the Bureau of Land Management to carry out this Act an amount 
not to exceed $36,000,000 over and above that provided in fiscal year 
1994 for additional administrative and construction costs over the 
fiscal year 1995-1999 period, and $300,000,000 for all land acquisition 
costs. No funds in excess of these amounts may be used for 
construction, administration, or land acquisition authorized under this 
Act without a specific authorization in an Act of Congress enacted 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

                   TITLE X--PROTECTION OF BODIE BOWL

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Bodie Protection Act of 1994''.

SEC. 1002. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
        (1) the historic Bodie gold mining district in the State of 
    California is the site of the largest and best preserved authentic 
    ghost town in the western United States;
        (2) the Bodie Bowl area contains important natural, historical, 
    and aesthetic resources;
        (3) Bodie was designated as a National Historical Landmark in 
    1961 and a California State Historic Park in 1962, is listed on the 
    National Register of Historic Places, and is included in the 
    Federal Historic American Buildings Survey;
        (4) nearly 200,000 persons visit Bodie each year, providing the 
    local economy with important annual tourism revenues;
        (5) the town of Bodie is threatened by proposals to explore and 
    extract minerals: mining in the Bodie Bowl area may have adverse 
    physical and aesthetic impacts on Bodie's historical integrity, 
    cultural values, and ghost town character as well as on its 
    recreational values and the area's flora and fauna;
        (6) the California State Legislature, on September 4, 1990, 
    requested the President and the Congress to direct the Secretary of 
    the Interior to protect the ghost town character, ambience, 
    historic buildings, and scenic attributes of the town of Bodie and 
    nearby areas;
        (7) the California State Legislature also requested the 
    Secretary, if necessary to protect the Bodie Bowl area, to withdraw 
    the Federal lands within the area from all forms of mineral entry 
    and patent;
        (8) the National Park Service listed Bodie as a priority one 
    endangered National Historic Landmark in its fiscal year 1990 and 
    1991 report to Congress entitled ``Threatened and Damaged National 
    Historic Landmarks'' and recommended protection of the Bodie area; 
    and
        (9) it is necessary and appropriate to provide that all Federal 
    lands within the Bodie Bowl area are not subject to location, 
    entry, and patent under the mining laws of the United States, 
    subject to valid existing rights, and to direct the Secretary to 
    consult with the Governor of the State of California before 
    approving any mining activity plan within the Bodie Bowl.

SEC. 1003. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this title:
        (1) The term ``Bodie Bowl'' means the Federal lands and 
    interests therein within the area generally depicted on the map 
    referred to in section 1004(a).
        (2) The term ``mineral activities'' means any activity 
    involving mineral prospecting, exploration, extraction, milling, 
    beneficiation, processing, and reclamation.
        (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 1004. APPLICABILITY OF MINERAL MINING, LEASING AND DISPOSAL LAWS.

    (a) Restriction.--Subject to valid existing rights, after the date 
of enactment of this title Federal lands and interests in lands within 
the area generally depicted on the map entitled ``Bodie Bowl'' and 
dated June 12, 1992, shall not be--
        (1) open to the location of mining and mill site claims under 
    the general mining laws of the United States;
        (2) subject to any lease under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
    U.S.C. 181 and following) or the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 
    U.S.C. 100 and following), for lands within the Bodie Bowl; and
        (3) available for disposal of mineral materials under the Act 
    of July 31, 1947, commonly known as the Materials Act of 1947 (30 
    U.S.C. 601 and following).
Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
Office of the Secretary, and appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
Management and the National Park Service. As soon as practicable after 
the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall publish a 
legal description of the Bodie Bowl area in the Federal Register.
    (b) Valid Existing Rights.--As used in this section, the term 
``valid existing rights'' in reference to the general mining laws means 
that a mining claim located on lands within the Bodie Bowl was properly 
located and maintained under the general mining laws prior to the date 
of enactment of this title, was supported by a discovery of a valuable 
mineral deposit within the meaning of the general mining laws on the 
date of enactment of this title, and that such claim continues to be 
valid.
    (c) Validity Review.--The Secretary shall undertake an expedited 
program to determine the validity of all unpatented mining claims 
located within the Bodie Bowl. The expedited program shall include an 
examination of all unpatented mining claims, including those for which 
a patent application has not been filed. If a claim is determined to be 
invalid, the Secretary shall promptly declare the claim to be null and 
void, except that the Secretary shall not challenge the validity of any 
claim located within the Bodie Bowl for the failure to do assessment 
work for any period after the date of enactment of this title. The 
Secretary shall make a determination with respect to the validity of 
each claim referred to under this subsection within two years after the 
date of enactment of this title.
    (d) Limitation on Patent Issuance.--
        (1) Mining Claims.--(A) After January 11, 1993, no patent shall 
    be issued by the United States for any mining claim located under 
    the general mining laws within the Bodie Bowl unless the Secretary 
    determines that, for the claim concerned--
            (i) a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or 
        before such date; and
            (ii) all requirements established under sections 2325 and 
        2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or 
        lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the 
        Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, 37) for placer claims were 
        fully complied with by that date.
        (B) If the Secretary makes the determinations referred to in 
    subparagraph (A) for any mining claim, the holder of the claim 
    shall be entitled to the issuance of a patent in the same manner 
    and degree to which such claim holder would have been entitled to 
    prior to the enactment of this title, unless and until such 
    determinations are withdrawn or invalidated by the Secretary or by 
    a court of the United States.
        (2) Mill Site Claims.--(A) After January 11, 1993, no patent 
    shall be issued by the United States for any mill site claim 
    located under the general mining laws within the Bodie Bowl unless 
    the Secretary determines that, for the claim concerned--
            (i) a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or 
        before January 11, 1993; and
            (ii) all requirements applicable to such patent application 
        were fully complied with by that date.
        (B) If the Secretary makes the determinations referred to in 
    subparagraph (A) for any mill site claim, the holder of the claim 
    shall be entitled to the issuance of a patent in the same manner 
    and degree to which such claim holder would have been entitled to 
    prior to the enactment of this title, unless and until such 
    determinations are withdrawn or invalidated by the Secretary or by 
    a court of the United States.

SEC. 1005. MINERAL ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the last sentence of section 
302(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, and in 
accordance with this title and other applicable law, the Secretary 
shall require that mineral activities be conducted in the Bodie Bowl so 
as to--
        (1) avoid adverse effects on the historic, cultural, 
    recreational, and natural resource values of the Bodie Bowl; and
        (2) minimize other adverse impacts to the environment.
    (b) Restoration of Effects of Mining Exploration.--As soon as 
possible after the date of enactment of this Act, visible evidence or 
other effects of mining exploration activity within the Bodie Bowl 
conducted on or after September 1, 1988, shall be reclaimed by the 
operator in accordance with regulations prescribed pursuant to 
subsection (d).
    (c) Annual Expenditures; Filing.--The requirements for annual 
expenditures on unpatented mining claims imposed by Revised Statute 
2324 (30 U.S.C. 28) shall not apply to any such claim located within 
the Bodie Bowl. In lieu of filing the affidavit of assessment work 
referred to under section 314(a)(1) of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)(1)), the holder of any 
unpatented mining or mill site claim located within the Bodie Bowl 
shall only be required to file the notice of intention to hold the 
mining claim referred to in such section 314(a)(1).
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate rules to implement 
this section, in consultation with the Governor of the State of 
California, within 180 days after the date of enactment of this title. 
Such rules shall be no less stringent that the rules promulgated 
pursuant to the Act of September 28, 1976 entitled ``An Act to provide 
for the regulation of mining activity within, and to repeal the 
application of mining laws to, areas of the National Park System, and 
for other purposes'' (Public Law 94-429; 16 U.S.C. 1901-1912).

SEC. 1006. STUDY.

    Beginning as soon as possible after the date of enactment of this 
title, the Secretary shall review possible actions to preserve the 
scenic character, historical integrity, cultural and recreational 
values, flora and fauna, and ghost town characteristics of lands and 
structures within the Bodie Bowl. No later than 3 years after the date 
of such enactment, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of 
Representatives a report that discusses the results of such review and 
makes recommendations as to which steps (including but not limited to 
acquisition of lands or valid mining claims) should be undertaken in 
order to achieve these objectives.

SEC. 1007. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title.

          TITLE XI--LOWER MISSISSIPPI DELTA REGION INITIATIVES

SEC. 1101. FINDINGS.

    (a) The Congress finds that--
        (1) in 1988, Congress enacted Public Law 100-460, establishing 
    the Lower Mississippi Delta Development Commission, to assess the 
    needs, problems, and opportunities of people living in the Lower 
    Mississippi Delta Region that includes 219 counties and parishes 
    within the States of Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, 
    Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee;
        (2) the Commission conducted a thorough investigation to assess 
    these needs, problems, and opportunities, and held several public 
    hearings throughout the Delta Region;
        (3) on the basis of these investigations, the Commission issued 
    the Delta Initiatives Report, which included recommendations on 
    natural resource protection, historic preservation, and the 
    enhancement of educational and other opportunities for Delta 
    residents;
        (4) the Delta Initiatives Report recommended--
            (A) designating the Great River Road as a scenic byway, and 
        designating other hiking and motorized trails throughout the 
        Delta Region;
            (B) that the Federal Government identify sites and 
        structures of historic and prehistoric importance throughout 
        the Delta Region;
            (C) the further study of potential new units of the 
        National Park System within the Delta Region; and
            (D) that Federal agencies target more monies in selected 
        areas to institutions of higher education in the Delta Region, 
        especially Historically Black Colleges and Universities.

SEC. 1102. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title, the term--
        (1) ``Commission'' means the Lower Mississippi Delta 
    Development Commission established pursuant to Public Law 100-460;
        (2) ``Delta Initiatives Report'' means the May 14, 1990 Final 
    Report of the Commission entitled ``The Delta Initiatives: 
    Realizing the Dream . . . Fulfilling the Potential'';
        (3) ``Delta Region'' means the Lower Mississippi Delta Region 
    including the 219 counties and parishes within the States of 
    Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and 
    Tennessee, as defined in the Delta Initiatives Report, except that, 
    for any State for which the Delta Region as defined in such report 
    comprises more than half of the geographic area of such State, the 
    entire State shall be considered part of the Delta Region for 
    purposes of this title;
        (4) ``Department'' means the United States Department of the 
    Interior, unless otherwise specifically stated;
        (5) ``Historically Black College or University'' means a 
    college or university that would be considered a ``part B 
    institution'' by section 322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
    (20 U.S.C. 1061(2));
        (6) ``minority college or university'' means a Historically 
    Black College or University that would be considered a ``part B 
    institution'' by section 322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
    (20 U.S.C. 1061(2)) or a ``minority institution'' as that term is 
    defined in section 1046 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
    U.S.C. 1135d-5(3));
        (7) ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior, unless 
    otherwise specifically stated.

SEC. 1103. LOWER MISSISSIPPI DELTA REGION HERITAGE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the States of 
the Delta Region, the Lower Mississippi Delta Development Center, and 
other appropriate Delta Region institutions, is directed to prepare and 
transmit to the Congress within three years after the date of the 
enactment of this title, a study of significant natural, recreational, 
historical or prehistorical, and cultural lands, waters, sites, and 
structures located within the Delta Region. This study shall take into 
consideration the research and inventory of resources conducted by the 
Mississippi River Heritage Corridor Study Commission.
    (b) Transportation Routes.--(1) The study shall include 
recommendations on appropriate designation and interpretation of 
historically significant roads, trails, byways, waterways, or other 
routes within the Delta Region.
    (2) In order to provide for public appreciation, education, 
understanding, interpretation, and enjoyment of the significant sites 
identified pursuant to subsection (a), which are accessible by public 
roads, the Secretary shall recommend in the study vehicular tour routes 
along existing public roads linking such sites within the Delta Region.
    (3) Such recommendations shall include an analysis of designating 
the Great River Road (as depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Delta 
Transportation Network'' on pages 102-103 of the Delta Initiatives 
Report) and other sections of the Great River Road between Baton Rouge 
and New Orleans, Louisiana and an analysis of designating that portion 
of the Old Antonio Road and the Louisiana Natchez Trace which extends 
generally along Highway 84 from Vidalia, Louisiana, to Clarence, 
Louisiana, and Louisiana Highway 6 from Clarence, Louisiana, to the 
Toledo Bend Reservoir, Louisiana, as a National Scenic Byway, or as a 
component of the National Trails System, or such other designation as 
the Secretary deems appropriate.
    (4) The Secretary shall also recommend in the study an appropriate 
route along existing public roads to commemorate the importance of 
timber production and trade to the economic development of the Delta 
Region in the early twentieth century, and to highlight the continuing 
importance of timber production and trade to the economic life of the 
Delta Region. Recommendations shall include an analysis of designating 
that portion of US 165 which extends from Alexandria, Louisiana, to 
Monroe, Louisiana, as a National Scenic Byway, or as a component of the 
National Trails System, or such other designation as the Secretary 
deems appropriate.
    (5) The study shall also include a comprehensive recreation, 
interpretive, and visitor use plan for the routes described in the 
above paragraphs, including bicycle and hiking paths, and make specific 
recommendations for the acquisition and construction or related 
interpretive and visitor information facilities at selected sites along 
such routes.
    (6) The Secretary is authorized to make grants to States for work 
necessary to stabilize, maintain, and widen public roads to allow for 
adequate access to the nationally significant sites and structures 
identified by the study, to allow for proper use of the vehicular tour 
route, trails, byways, including the routes defined in paragraphs (3) 
and (4) or other public roads within the Delta Region and to implement 
the comprehensive recreation, interpretive, and visitor use plan 
required in paragraph (5).
    (c) Listing.--On the basis of the study, and in consultation with 
the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Secretary shall 
inventory significant structures and sites in the Delta Region. The 
Secretary shall further recommend and encourage cooperative 
preservation and economic development efforts such as the establishment 
of preservation districts linking groups of contiguous counties or 
parishes, especially those that lie along the aforementioned designated 
routes. The Secretary shall prepare a list of the sites and structures 
for possible inclusion by the National Park Service as National 
Historic Landmarks or such other designation as the Secretary deems 
appropriate.

SEC. 1104. DELTA REGION HERITAGE CORRIDORS AND HERITAGE AND CULTURAL 
              CENTERS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) in 1990, the Congress authorized the Institute of Museum 
    Services to prepare a report assessing the needs of small, 
    emerging, minority, and rural museums in order to identify the 
    resources such museums needed to meet their educational mission, to 
    identify the areas of museum operation in which the needs were 
    greatest, and to make recommendations on how these needs could best 
    be met;
        (2) the Institute of Museum Services undertook a comprehensive 
    eighteen month study of such needs with the assistance of two 
    advisory groups, surveyed 524 museums from throughout the Nation, 
    held discussion groups in which representatives of 25 museum groups 
    participated, and conducted case studies of 12 museum facilities 
    around the Nation;
        (3) on the basis of this assessment, the Institute of Museum 
    Services issued a report in September, 1992, entitled, ``National 
    Needs Assessment of Small, Emerging, Minority and Rural Museums in 
    the United States'' (hereinafter ``National Needs Assessment'') 
    which found that small, emerging, minority, and rural museums 
    provide valuable educational and cultural resources for their 
    communities and contain a reservoir of the Nation's material, 
    cultural and historical heritage, but due to inadequate resources 
    are unable to meet their full potential or the demands of the 
    surrounding communities;
        (4) the needs of these institutions are not being met through 
    existing Federal programs;
        (5) fewer than half of the participants in the survey had 
    applied for Federal assistance in the past two years and that many 
    small, emerging, minority and rural museums believe existing 
    Federal programs do not meet their needs;
        (6) based on the National Needs Assessment, that funding 
    agencies should increase support available to small, emerging, 
    minority, and rural museums and make specific recommendations for 
    increasing technical assistance in order to identify such 
    institutions and provide assistance to facilitate their 
    participation in Federal programs;
        (7) the Delta Initiatives Report made specific recommendations 
    for the creation and development of centers for the preservation of 
    the cultural, historical, and literary heritage of the Delta 
    Region, including recommendations for the establishment of a Delta 
    Region Native American Heritage and Cultural Center and a Delta 
    Region African American Heritage and Cultural Center with 
    additional satellite centers or museums linked throughout the Delta 
    Region;
        (8) the Delta Initiatives Report stated that new ways of 
    coordinating, preserving, and promoting the Delta Region's 
    literature, art, and music should be established including the 
    creation of a network to promote the Delta Region's literary, 
    artistic, and musical heritage; and
        (9) wholesale destruction and attrition of archeological sites 
    and structures has eliminated a significant portion of Native 
    American heritage as well as the interpretive potential of the 
    Delta Region's parks and museums. Furthermore, site and structure 
    destruction is so severe that an ambitious program of site and 
    structure acquisition in the Delta Region is necessary.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the States of 
the Delta Region, the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, 
the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Director 
of the Smithsonian Institution, the Lower Mississippi Delta Development 
Center, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and appropriate 
African American, Native American and other relevant institutions or 
organizations in the Delta Region, is further directed to prepare and 
transmit to the Congress a plan outlining specific recommendations, 
including recommendations for necessary funding, for the establishment 
of a Delta Region Native American Heritage Corridor and Heritage and 
Cultural Center and a Delta Region African American Heritage Corridor 
and Heritage and Cultural Center with a network of satellite or 
cooperative units.
    (c) Delta Region Native American Heritage Corridor and Cultural 
Center.--(1) The plan referred to in subsection (b) of this section 
shall include recommendations for establishing a network of parks, 
museums, and other centers to interpret Native American culture and 
heritage in the Delta Region, including a ten year development strategy 
for such a network.
    (2) Such plan shall include specific proposals for the development 
of a Native American Heritage Corridor and Heritage and Cultural Center 
in the Delta Region, along with recommendations for the appropriate 
Federal role in such a center including matching grants, technical and 
interpretive assistance.
    (3) Such plan shall be conducted in consultation with tribal 
leaders in the Delta Region.
    (4) Such plan shall also include specific proposals for educational 
and training assistance for Delta Region Native Americans to carry out 
the recommendations provided in the study.
    (d) Delta Region African American Heritage Corridor and Heritage 
and Cultural Center.--(1) The plan referred to in subsection (b) of 
this section shall include recommendations for establishing a heritage 
corridor or trail system, consisting of one or two major north-south 
routes and several east-west-spur loops to preserve, interpret and 
commemorate the African American heritage and culture in the Delta 
Region during all significant historical periods.
    (2) Such plan shall make specific recommendations for representing 
all forms of expressive culture including the musical, folklore, 
literary, artistic, scientific, historical, educational, and political 
contributions and accomplishments of African Americans in the Delta 
Region.
    (3) Such plan shall make specific recommendations for implementing 
the findings of the Delta Initiatives Report with respect to 
establishing an African American Heritage Corridor and Heritage and 
Cultural Center and related satellite museums in the Delta Region, 
together with specific funding levels necessary to carry out these 
recommendations and shall also include recommendations for improving 
access of small, emerging, minority or rural museums to technical and 
financial assistance.
    (4) Such plan shall be conducted in consultation with institutions 
of higher education in the Delta Region with expertise in African 
American studies, Southern studies, archeology, anthropology, history 
and other relevant fields.
    (5) Such plan shall make specific recommendations for improving 
educational programs offered by existing cultural facilities and 
museums as well as establishing new outreach programs for elementary, 
middle and secondary schools, including summer programs for youth in 
the Delta Region.
    (e) Grants.--(1) In furtherance of the purposes of this section, 
the Secretary is authorized to make planning grants to State Humanities 
Councils in the Delta Region to assist small, emerging, minority and 
rural museums selected on a financial needs basis in the development of 
a comprehensive long term plan for these institutions. The Secretary is 
also authorized to make implementation grants to State Humanities 
Councils in the Delta Region who, in consultations with State Museum 
Associations, shall make grants to small, emerging, minority or rural 
museums for the purpose of carrying out an approved plan for training 
personnel, improving exhibits or other steps necessary to assure the 
integrity of collections in their facilities, for educational outreach 
programs, or for other activities the Secretary deems appropriate 
including the promotion of tourism in the region. Such institutions 
shall be selected competitively and on the basis of demonstrated 
financial need. The Secretary is also authorized to make grants to 
State Humanities Councils to update, simplify and coordinate the 
respective State Works Progress Administration guides and to develop a 
single comprehensive guide for the Delta Region.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide grants and other 
appropriate technical assistance to State Humanities Councils, State 
museum Associations, and State Arts Councils in the Delta Region for 
the purpose of assessing the needs of such institutions. Such grants 
may be used by these institutions to undertake such an assessment and 
to provide other technical, administrative and planning assistance to 
small, emerging, minority or rural institutions seeking to preserve the 
Delta Region's literary, artistic, and musical heritage.
    (f) Music Heritage Program.--(1) The plan referred to in subsection 
(b) of this section shall include recommendations for establishing a 
Music Heritage Program, with specific emphasis on the Mississippi Delta 
Blues. The plan shall include specific recommendations for developing a 
network of heritage sites, structures, small museums, and festivals in 
the Delta Region.
    (2) The plan shall include an economic strategy for the promotion 
of the Delta Region's music, through the participation of musicians, 
festival developers, museum operators, universities, economic 
development districts, and other relevant individuals and 
organizations.
    (g) Completion Date.--The plan authorized in this section shall be 
completed not later than three years after the date funds are made 
available for such plan.

SEC. 1105. HISTORIC AND PREHISTORIC STRUCTURES AND SITES SURVEY.

    (a) Assistance.--The Secretary is authorized to provide technical 
and financial assistance to Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities to undertake a comprehensive survey of historic and 
prehistoric structures and sites located on their campuses, including 
recommendations as to the inclusion of appropriate structures and sites 
on the National Register of Historic Places, designation as National 
Historic Landmarks, or other appropriate designation as determined by 
the Secretary. The Secretary shall also make specific proposals and 
recommendations, together with estimates of necessary funding levels, 
for a comprehensive plan to be carried out by the Department to assist 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the preservation and 
interpretation of such sites and structures.
    (b) Grants.--In furtherance of the purposes of this section, the 
Secretary is authorized to provide technical and financial assistance 
to Historically Black Colleges and Universities for stabilization, 
preservation and interpretation of such sites and structures.

SEC. 1106. DELTA ANTIQUITIES SURVEY.

    (a) In General.--(1) The Secretary is directed to prepare and 
transmit to the Congress, in cooperation with the States of the Delta 
Region, State Archaeological Surveys and Regional Archeological 
Centers, a study of the feasibility of establishing a Delta Antiquities 
Trail or Delta Antiquities Heritage Corridor in the Delta Region.
    (2) Such study shall, to the extent practicable, use nonintrusive 
methods of identifying, surveying, inventorying, and stabilizing 
ancient archeological sites and structures.
    (3) In undertaking this study, the Secretary is directed to enter 
into cooperative agreements with the States of the Delta Region, the 
State Archeological Surveys, and Regional Archeological Centers located 
in Delta Region institutions of higher education for on-site activities 
including surveys, inventories, and stabilization and other activities 
which the Secretary deems appropriate.
    (4) In addition to the over 100 known ancient archeological sites 
located in the Delta Region including Watson's Brake, Frenchman's Bend, 
Hedgepeth, Monte Sano, Banana Bayou, Hornsby, Parkin, Toltec, Menard-
Hodges, Eaker, Blytheville Mound, Nodena, Taylor Mounds, DeSoto Mound 
and others, such study shall also employ every practical means 
possible, including assistance from the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, the Forest Service and Soil Conservation Service of the 
Department of Agriculture, the Army Corps of Engineers of the 
Department of Defense, and other appropriate Federal agencies, to 
locate and confirm the existence of a site known as Balbansha in 
southern Louisiana and a site known as Autiamque in Arkansas. The heads 
of these Federal agencies shall cooperate with the Secretary as the 
Secretary requires on a non-reimbursable basis.
    (b) Technical Assistance.--In furtherance of the purposes of this 
section, the Secretary is authorized to provide technical assistance 
and grants to private landowners for necessary stabilization activities 
of identified sites and for preparing recommendations for designating 
such sites as National Landmarks or other appropriate designations as 
the Secretary, with the concurrence of the landowners, determines to be 
appropriate.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary is authorized to enter 
into cooperative agreements with the States, State Archeological 
Surveys, and Regional Archeological Centers of the Delta Region to 
develop a ten-year plan for the stabilization, preservation and 
interpretation of those sites and structures as may be identified by 
the Secretary.

SEC. 1107. HISTORIC AND ARCHEOLOGICAL RESOURCES PROGRAM.

    (a) Program.--The Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive program 
for the research, interpretation, and preservation of significant 
historic and archeological resources in the Delta Region.
    (b) Elements of the Program.--The program shall include, but not be 
limited to--
        (1) identification of research projects related to historic and 
    archeological resources in the Delta Region and a proposal for the 
    regular publication of related research materials and publications;
        (2) the development of a survey program to investigate, 
    inventory and further evaluate known historic and archeological 
    sites and structures and identify those sites and structures that 
    require additional study;
        (3) identification of a core system of interpretive sites and 
    structures that would provide a comprehensive overview of historic 
    and archeological resources of the Delta Region;
        (4) preparation of educational materials to interpret the 
    historical and archeological resources of the Delta Region;
        (5) preparation of surveys and archeological and historical 
    investigations of sites, structures, and artifacts relating to the 
    Delta Region, including the preparation of reports, maps, and other 
    related activities.
    (c) Grants and Technical Assistance.--(1) The Secretary is 
authorized to award grants to qualified tribal, governmental and non-
governmental entities and individuals to assist the Secretary in 
carrying out those elements of the program which the Secretary deems 
appropriate.
    (2) The Secretary is further authorized to award grants and provide 
other types of technical and financial assistance to such entities and 
individuals to conserve and protect historic and archeological sites 
and structures in the Delta Region identified in the program prepared 
pursuant to this section.
    (d) Demonstration Project.--The Secretary shall establish a 
national demonstration project for the conservation and curation of the 
archeological records and collections of Federal and State management 
agencies in the Delta Region.

SEC. 1108. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title.

          TITLE XII--NEW ORLEANS JAZZ NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK

SEC. 1201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``New Orleans Jazz National 
Historical Park Act of 1994''.

SEC. 1202. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that:
        (1) Jazz is the United States' most widely recognized 
    indigenous music and art form. Congress previously recognized jazz 
    in 1987 through Senate Concurrent Resolution 57 as a rare and 
    valuable national treasure of international importance.
        (2) The city of New Orleans is widely recognized as the 
    birthplace of jazz. In and around this city, cultural and musical 
    elements blended to form the unique American music that is known as 
    New Orleans jazz, which is an expression of the cultural diversity 
    of the lower Mississippi Delta Region.
        (3) Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve was 
    established to commemorate the cultural diversity of the lower 
    Mississippi Delta Region including a range of cultural expressions 
    like jazz.
    (b) Purpose.--In furtherance of the need to recognize the value and 
importance of jazz, it is the purpose of this title to establish a New 
Orleans Jazz National Historical Park to preserve the origins, early 
history, development and progression of jazz; provide visitors with 
opportunities to experience the sights, sounds, and places where jazz 
evolved; and implement innovative ways of establishing jazz educational 
partnerships that will help to ensure that jazz continues as a vital 
element of the culture of New Orleans and our Nation.

SEC. 1203. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--In order to assist in the preservation, education, 
and interpretation of jazz as it has evolved in New Orleans, and to 
provide technical assistance to a broad range of organizations involved 
with jazz music and its history, there is hereby established the New 
Orleans Jazz National Historical Park (hereinafter referred to as the 
``historical park''). The historical park shall be administered in 
conjunction with the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and 
Preserve, which was established to preserve and interpret the cultural 
and natural resources of the lower Mississippi Delta Region.
    (b) Area Included.--The historical park shall consist of lands and 
interests therein as follows:
        (1) Lands which the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
    referred to as ``the Secretary'') may designate for an interpretive 
    visitor center complex.
        (2) Sites that are the subject of cooperative agreements with 
    the National Park Service for the purposes of interpretive 
    demonstrations and programs associated with the purposes of this 
    title.
        (3)(A) Sites designated by the Secretary as provided in 
    subparagraph (B).
        (B)(i) No later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
    this title, the Secretary is directed to complete a national 
    historic landmark evaluation of sites associated with jazz in and 
    around New Orleans as identified in the document entitled ``New 
    Orleans Jazz Special Resource Study'', prepared by the National 
    Park Service pursuant to Public Law 101-499. In undertaking the 
    evaluation, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, utilize 
    existing information relating to such sites.
        (ii) If any of the sites evaluated are found to meet the 
    standards of the National Historic Landmark program and National 
    Park Service tests of suitability and feasibility, and offer 
    outstanding opportunities to further the purposes of this title, 
    the Secretary may designate such sites as part of the historical 
    park, following consultation with the owners of such sites, the 
    city of New Orleans, the Smithsonian Institution, and the New 
    Orleans Jazz Commission, and notification to the Committee on 
    Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the 
    Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of 
    Representatives.

SEC. 1204. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a)(1) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the historical 
park in accordance with this title and with provisions of law generally 
applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act 
entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4); 
and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467). The 
Secretary shall manage the historical park in such a manner as will 
preserve and perpetuate knowledge and understanding of the history of 
jazz and its continued evolution as a true American art form.
    (2) To minimize operational costs associated with the management 
and administration of the historical park and to avoid duplication of 
effort, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize 
the facilities, administrative staff and other services of the Jean 
Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve.
    (b) Donations.--The Secretary may accept and retain donations of 
funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, 
corporations, or other public entities for the purposes of providing 
services, programs, and facilities that further the purposes of this 
title.
    (c) Interpretive Center.--The Secretary is authorized to construct, 
operate, and maintain an interpretive center in the historical park on 
lands identified by the Secretary pursuant to section 1203(b)(1). 
Programs at the center shall include, but need not be limited to, live 
jazz interpretive and educational programs, and shall provide visitors 
with information about jazz-related programs, performances, and 
opportunities.
    (d) Jazz Heritage Districts.--The Secretary may provide technical 
assistance to the city of New Orleans and other appropriate entities 
for the designation of certain areas in and around New Orleans as jazz 
heritage districts. Such districts shall include those areas with an 
exceptional concentration of jazz historical sites and established 
community traditions of jazz street parades.
    (e) Coooperative Agreements, Grants and Technical Assistance.--In 
furtherance of the purposes of this title--
        (1) the Secretary, after consultation with the New Orleans Jazz 
    Commission established pursuant to section 1207, is authorized to 
    enter into cooperative agreements with owners of properties that 
    are designated pursuant to section 1203(b)(3) which provide 
    outstanding educational and interpretive opportunities relating to 
    the evolution of jazz in New Orleans. The Secretary may assist in 
    rehabilitating, restoring, marking, and interpreting and may 
    provide technical assistance for the preservation and 
    interpretation of such properties. Such agreements shall contain, 
    but need not be limited to, provisions that the National Park 
    Service will have reasonable rights of access for operational and 
    visitor use needs, that rehabilitation and restoration will meet 
    the Secretary's standards for rehabilitation of historic buildings, 
    and that specify the roles and responsibilities of the Secretary 
    for each site or structure;
        (2) the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
    agreements with the city of New Orleans, the State of Louisiana, 
    and other appropriate public and private organizations under which 
    the other parties to the agreement may contribute to the 
    acquisition, construction, operation, and maintenance of the 
    interpretive center and to the operation of educational and 
    interpretive programs to further the purposes of this title; and
        (3) the Secretary, in consultation with the New Orleans Jazz 
    Commission, is authorized to provide grants or technical assistance 
    to public and private organizations.
    (f) Jazz Educational Programs.--The Secretary shall, in the 
administration of the historical park, promote a broad range of 
educational activities relating to jazz and its history. The Secretary 
shall cooperate with schools, universities, and organizations 
supporting jazz education to develop educational programs that provide 
expanded public understanding of jazz and enhanced opportunities for 
public appreciation. The Secretary may assist appropriate entities in 
the development of an information base including archival material, 
audiovisual records, and objects that relate to the history of jazz.

SEC. 1205. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.

    (a) General Authority.--The Secretary may acquire lands and 
interests therein within the sites designated pursuant to section 
1203(b)(1) and (3) by donation or purchase with donated or appropriated 
funds or long term lease: Provided, That sites designated pursuant to 
section 1203(b)(3) shall only be acquired with the consent of the owner 
thereof.
    (b) State and Local Properties.--Lands and interests in lands which 
are owned by the State of Louisiana, or any political subdivision 
thereof, may be acquired only by donation.

SEC. 1206. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    Within three years after the date funds are made available therefor 
and concurrent with the national landmark study referenced in section 
1203(b)(3), the Secretary, in consultation with the New Orleans Jazz 
Commission, shall prepare a general management plan for the historical 
park. The plan shall include, but need not be limited to--
        (1) a visitor use plan indicating programs and facilities 
    associated with park programs that will be made available to the 
    public;
        (2) preservation and use plans for any structures and sites 
    that are identified through the historic landmark study for 
    inclusion within the historical park;
        (3) the location and associated cost of public facilities that 
    are proposed for inclusion within the historical park, including a 
    visitor center;
        (4) identification of programs that the Secretary will 
    implement or be associated with through cooperative agreements with 
    other groups and organizations;
        (5) a transportation plan that addresses visitor use access 
    needs to sites, facilities, and programs central to the purpose of 
    the historical park;
        (6) plans for the implementation of an archival system for 
    materials, objects, and items of importance relating to the history 
    of jazz; and
        (7) guidelines for the application of cooperative agreements 
    that will be used to assist in the management of historical park 
    facilities and programs.

SEC. 1207. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW ORLEANS JAZZ COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--To assist in implementing the purposes of this 
title and the document entitled ``New Orleans Jazz Special Resource 
Study'', there is established the New Orleans Jazz Commission 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 17 members to be 
appointed no later than six months after the date of enactment of this 
title. The Commission shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:
        (1) One member from recommendations submitted by the Mayor of 
    New Orleans.
        (2) Two members who have recognized expertise in music 
    education programs that emphasize jazz.
        (3) One member, with experience in and knowledge of tourism in 
    the greater New Orleans area, from recommendations submitted by 
    local businesses.
        (4) One member from recommendations submitted by the Board of 
    the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Foundation.
        (5) One member, with experience in and knowledge of historic 
    preservation within the New Orleans area.
        (6) Two members, one from recommendations submitted by the 
    Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and one member from 
    recommendations submitted by the Chairman of the National Endowment 
    of the Arts, who are recognized musicians with knowledge and 
    experience in the development of jazz in New Orleans.
        (7) Two members, one from recommendations submitted by the 
    Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and one member from 
    recommendations submitted by the Director of the Louisiana State 
    Museum with recognized expertise in the interpretation of jazz 
    history or traditions related to jazz in New Orleans.
        (8) Two members who represent local neighborhood groups or 
    other local associations; from recommendations submitted by the 
    Mayor of New Orleans.
        (9) One member representing local mutual aid and benevolent 
    societies as well as local social and pleasure clubs, from 
    recommendations submitted by the Board of the New Orleans Jazz and 
    Heritage Foundation.
        (10) One member from recommendations submitted by the Governor 
    of the State of Louisiana, who shall be a member of the Louisiana 
    State Music Commission.
        (11) One member representing the New Orleans Jazz Club from 
    recommendations submitted by the club.
        (12) One member who is a recognized local expert on the 
    history, development and progression of jazz in New Orleans and is 
    familiar with existing archival materials from recommendations 
    submitted by the Librarian of Congress.
        (13) The Director of the National Park Service, or the 
    Director's designee, ex officio.
    (c) Duties of the Commission.--The Commission shall--
        (1) advise the Secretary in the preparation of the general 
    management plan for the historical park; assist in public 
    discussions of planning proposals; and assist the National Park 
    Service in working with individuals, groups, and organizations 
    including economic and business interests in determining programs 
    in which the Secretary should participate through cooperative 
    agreement;
        (2) in consultation and cooperation with the Secretary, develop 
    partnerships with educational groups, schools, universities, and 
    other groups to furtherance of the purposes of this title;
        (3) in consultation and cooperation with the Secretary, develop 
    partnerships with city-wide organizations, and raise and disperse 
    funds for programs that assist mutual aid and benevolent societies, 
    social and pleasure clubs and other traditional groups in 
    encouraging the continuation of and enhancement of jazz cultural 
    traditions;
        (4) acquire or lease property for jazz education, and advise on 
    hiring brass bands and musical groups to participate in education 
    programs and help train young musicians;
        (5) in consultation and cooperation with the Secretary, provide 
    recommendations for the location of the visitor center and other 
    interpretive sites;
        (6) assist the Secretary in providing funds to support research 
    on the origins and early history of jazz in New Orleans; and
        (7) notwithstanding any other provision of law, seek and accept 
    donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, 
    foundations, corporations, or other public or private entities and 
    expend and use the same for the purposes of providing services, 
    programs, and facilities for jazz education, or assisting in the 
    rehabilitation and restoration of structures identified in the 
    national historic landmark study referenced in section 1203(b)(3) 
    as having outstanding significance to the history of jazz in New 
    Orleans.
    (d) Appointment.--Members of the Commission shall be appointed for 
staggered terms of 3 years, as designated by the Secretary at the time 
of the initial appointment.
    (e) Chairman.--The Commission shall elect a chairman from among its 
members. The term of the chairman shall be for 3 years.
    (f) Terms.--Any member of the Commission appointed by the Secretary 
for a 3-year term may serve after the expiration of his or her term 
until a successor is appointed. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same 
manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed 
to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which 
the predecessor was appointed.
    (g) Per Diem Expenses.--Members of the Commission shall serve 
without compensation. Members shall be entitled to travel expenses 
under section 5703, title 5, United States Code, when engaged in 
Commission business, including per diem in lieu of subsistence in the 
same manner as persons employed intermittently.
    (h) Administrative Support.--The Secretary shall provide the 
Commission with assistance in obtaining such personnel, equipment, and 
facilities as may be needed by the Commission to carry out its duties.
    (i) Annual Report.--The Commission shall submit an annual report to 
the Secretary identifying its expenses and income and the entities to 
which any grants or technical assistance were made during the year for 
which the report is made.

SEC. 1208. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.