[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2372 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2372

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the United States Commission on Civil Rights Act of 1983.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Civil Rights Commission Amendments 
Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENT OF 1983 ACT.

    That the portion of the United States Commission on Civil Rights 
Act of 1983 which follows the enacting clause is amended to read as 
follows:

``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    ``This Act may be cited as the `Civil Rights Commission Act of 
1983'.

``SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.

    ``(a) Generally.--There is established the United States Commission 
on Civil Rights (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the 
`Commission').
    ``(b) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 8 members. 
Not more than 4 of the members shall at any one time be of the same 
political party. The initial membership of the Commission shall be the 
members of the United States Commission on Civil Rights on September 
30, 1994. Thereafter vacancies in the membership of the Commission 
shall continue to be appointed as follows:
        ``(1) 4 members of the Commission shall be appointed by the 
    President.
        ``(2) 2 members of the Commission shall be appointed by the 
    President pro tempore of the Senate, upon the recommendations of 
    the majority leader and the minority leader, and of the members 
    appointed not more than one shall be appointed from the same 
    political party.
        ``(3) 2 members of the Commission shall be appointed by the 
    Speaker of the House of Representatives upon the recommendations of 
    the majority leader and the minority leader, and of the members 
    appointed not more than one shall be appointed from the same 
    political party.
    ``(c) Terms.--The term of office of each member of the Commission 
shall be 6 years. The term of each member of the Commission in the 
initial membership of the Commission shall expire on the date such term 
would have expired as of September 30, 1994.
    ``(d) Chairperson.--(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
(3), the individuals serving as Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the 
United States Commission on Civil Rights on September 30, 1994 shall 
initially fill those roles on the Commission.
    ``(2) Thereafter the President may, with the concurrence of a 
majority of the Commission's members, designate a Chairperson or Vice 
Chairperson, as the case may be, from among the Commission's members.
    ``(3) The President shall, with the concurrence of a majority of 
the Commission's members, fill a vacancy by designating a Chairperson 
or Vice Chairperson, as the case may be, from among the Commission's 
members.
    ``(4) The Vice Chairperson shall act in place of the Chairperson in 
the absence of the Chairperson.
    ``(e) Removal of Members.--The President may remove a member of the 
Commission only for neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
    ``(f) Quorum.--5 members of the Commission constitute a quorum of 
the Commission.

``SEC. 3. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.

    ``(a) Generally.--The Commission--
        ``(1) shall investigate allegations in writing under oath or 
    affirmation relating to deprivations--
            ``(A) because of color, race, religion, sex, age, 
        disability, or national origin; or
            ``(B) as a result of any pattern or practice of fraud;
    of the right of citizens of the United States to vote and have 
    votes counted; and
        ``(2) shall--
            ``(A) study and collect information relating to;
            ``(B) make appraisals of the laws and policies of the 
        Federal Government with respect to;
            ``(C) serve as a national clearinghouse for information 
        relating to; and
            ``(D) prepare public service announcements and advertising 
        campaigns to discourage;
    discrimination or denials of equal protection of the laws under the 
    Constitution of the United States because of color, race, religion, 
    sex, age, disability, or national origin, or in the administration 
    of justice.
    ``(b) Limitations on Investigatory Duties.--Nothing in this or any 
other Act shall be construed as authorizing the Commission, its 
advisory committees, or any person under its supervision or control, to 
inquire into or investigate any membership practices or internal 
operations of any fraternal organization, any college or university 
fraternity or sorority, any private club, or any religious 
organization.
    ``(c) Reports.--
        ``(1) Annual report.--The Commission shall submit to the 
    President and Congress at least one report annually that monitors 
    Federal civil rights enforcement efforts in the United States.
        ``(2) Other reports generally.--The Commission shall submit 
    such other reports to the President and the Congress as the 
    Commission, the Congress, or the President shall deem appropriate.
    ``(d) Advisory Committees.--The Commission may constitute such 
advisory committees as it deems advisable. The Commission shall 
establish at least one such committee in each State and the District of 
Columbia composed of citizens of that State or District.
    ``(e) Hearings and Ancillary Matters.--
        ``(1) Power to hold hearings.--The Commission, or on the 
    authorization of the Commission, any subcommittee of two or more 
    members of the Commission, at least one of whom shall be of each 
    major political party, may, for the purpose of carrying out this 
    Act, hold such hearings and act at such times and places as the 
    Commission or such authorized subcommittee deems advisable. Each 
    member of the Commission shall have the power to administer oaths 
    and affirmations in connection with the proceedings of the 
    Commission. The holding of a hearing by the Commission or the 
    appointment of a subcommittee to hold a hearing pursuant to this 
    paragraph must be approved by a majority of the Commission, or by a 
    majority of the members present at a meeting when a quorum is 
    present.
        ``(2) Power to issue subpoenas.--The Commission may issue 
    subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production of 
    written or other matter. Such a subpoena may not require the 
    presence of a witness more than 100 miles outside the place wherein 
    the witness is found or resides or is domiciled or transacts 
    business, or has appointed an agent for receipt of service of 
    process. In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the 
    Attorney General may in a Federal court of appropriate jurisdiction 
    obtain an appropriate order to enforce the subpoena.
        ``(3) Witness fees.--A witness attending any proceeding of the 
    Commission shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid 
    witnesses in the courts of the United States.
        ``(4) Depositions and interrogatories.--The Commission may use 
    depositions and written interrogatories to obtain information and 
    testimony about matters that are the subject of a Commission 
    hearing or report.
    ``(f) Limitation Relating to Abortion.--Nothing in this or any 
other Act shall be construed as authorizing the Commission, its 
advisory committees, or any other person under its supervision or 
control to study and collect, make appraisals of, or serve as a 
clearinghouse for any information about laws and policies of the 
Federal Government or any other governmental authority in the United 
States, with respect to abortion.

``SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

    ``(a) Staff.--
        ``(1) Director.--There shall be a full-time staff director for 
    the Commission who shall--
            ``(A) serve as the administrative head of the Commission; 
        and
            ``(B) be appointed by the President with the concurrence of 
        a majority of the Commission.
        ``(2) Other personnel.--Within the limitation of its 
    appropriations, the Commission may--
            ``(A) appoint such other personnel as it deems advisable, 
        under the civil service and classification laws; and
            ``(B) procure services, as authorized in section 3109 of 
        title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals not 
        in excess of the daily equivalent paid for positions at the 
        maximum rate for GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 
        5332 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(b) Compensation of Members.--
        ``(1) Generally.--Each member of the Commission who is not 
    otherwise in the service of the Government of the United States 
    shall receive a sum equivalent to the compensation paid at level IV 
    of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United 
    States Code, prorated on a daily basis for time spent in the work 
    of the Commission.
        ``(2) Persons otherwise in government service.--Each member of 
    the Commission who is otherwise in the service of the Government of 
    the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to 
    that received for such other service, but while engaged in the work 
    of the Commission shall be paid actual travel expenses and per diem 
    in lieu of subsistence expenses when away from such member's usual 
    place of residence, under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
    United States Code.
    ``(c) Voluntary or Uncompensated Personnel.--The Commission shall 
not accept or use the services of voluntary or uncompensated persons. 
This limitation shall apply with respect to services of members of the 
Commission as it does with respect to services by other persons.
    ``(d) Rules.--
        ``(1) Generally.--The Commission may make such rules as are 
    necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
        ``(2) Continuation of old rules.--Except as inconsistent with 
    this Act, and until modified by the Commission, the rules of the 
    Commission on Civil Rights in effect on September 30, 1994 shall be 
    the initial rules of the Commission.
    ``(e) Cooperation.--All Federal agencies shall cooperate fully with 
the Commission to the end that it may effectively carry out its 
functions and duties.

``SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated, to carry out this Act 
$9,500,000 for fiscal year 1995. None of the sums authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 1995 may be used to create additional 
regional offices.

``SEC. 6. TERMINATION.

    ``This Act shall terminate on September 30, 1996.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.