[106th Congress Public Law 62]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ062.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 506]]

Public Law 106-62
106th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2000, and for other 
          purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 1999 -  [H.J. Res. 68]>> 


    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for the 
fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority 
and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the 
fiscal year 1999 for continuing projects or activities including the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically 
provided for in this joint resolution) which were conducted in the 
fiscal year 1999 and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
would be available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000;
            (2) the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
        Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, 
        notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956, section 701 of the United States 
        Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, section 313 of 
        the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 
        1995 (Public Law 103-236), and section 53 of the Arms Control 
        and Disarmament Act;
            (3) the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000, 
        notwithstanding section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act 
        of 1947;
            (4) the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2000;
            (5) the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 
        2000;
            (6) the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2000, notwithstanding section 10 of 
        Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956;
            (7) the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2000;
            (8) the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, the 
        House or Senate reported version of which, if such reported 
        version exists, shall be deemed to have passed the House or 
        Senate respectively as of October 1, 1999, for the purposes

[[Page 113 STAT. 507]]

        of this joint resolution, unless a reported version is passed as 
        of October 1, 1999, in which case the passed version shall be 
        used in place of the reported version for purposes of this joint 
        resolution;
            (9) the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2000;
            (10) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2000;
            (11) the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 
        2000; and
            (12) the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
        Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
        2000:

Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted in these Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 1999, is different than that which would be 
available or granted under current operations, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the 
current rate: Provided further, That whenever there is no amount made 
available under any of these appropriations Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 1999, for a continuing project or activity 
which was conducted in fiscal year 1999 and for which there is fiscal 
year 2000 funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project 
or activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under 
the authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations 
Act for the fiscal year 1999.
    (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted under an Act listed in this section as 
passed by the House as of October 1, 1999, is different from that which 
would be available or granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as 
of October 1, 1999, the pertinent project or activity shall be continued 
at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate under the 
appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the applicable 
appropriations Act for the fiscal year 2000 and under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal 
year 1999.
    (c) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only 
the House or only the Senate as of October 1, 1999, the pertinent 
project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation, fund, or 
authority granted by the one House at a rate for operations not 
exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions 
provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal year 1999: 
Provided, That whenever there is no amount made available under any of 
these appropriations Acts as passed by the House or the Senate as of 
October 1, 1999, for a continuing project or activity which was 
conducted in fiscal year 1999 and for which there is fiscal year 2000 
funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under the 
authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act 
for the fiscal year 1999.
    (d) If the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, has not been 
reported in either the House or the Senate as of October 1, 1999, 
continuing projects or activities that were conducted in fiscal year 
1999 shall be continued at the current rate under the appropriation, 
fund or authority and terms and conditions

[[Page 113 STAT. 508]]

provided in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999.
    Sec. 102. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for new production of items not funded for production in fiscal 
year 1999 or prior years, for the increase in production rates above 
those sustained with fiscal year 1999 funds, or to initiate, resume, or 
continue any project, activity, operation, or organization which are 
defined as any project, subproject, activity, budget activity, program 
element, and subprogram within a program element and for investment 
items are further defined as a P-1 line item in a budget activity within 
an appropriation account and an R-1 line item which includes a program 
element and subprogram element within an appropriation account, for 
which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during the fiscal year 1999: Provided, That no appropriation or funds 
made available or authority granted pursuant to section 101 for the 
Department of Defense shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements 
utilizing advance procurement funding for economic order quantity 
procurement unless specifically appropriated later.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during the fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 105. No provision which is included in an appropriations Act 
enumerated in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 1999 and which by its terms is 
applicable to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority shall be 
applicable to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  Unless otherwise provided for 
in this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations Act, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until: (a) enactment into 
law of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this 
joint resolution; (b) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project 
or activity; or (c) October 21, 1999, whichever first occurs.

    Sec. 107. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred 
for any program, project, or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 108. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 109. No provision in the appropriations Act for the fiscal year 
2000 referred to in section 101 of this Act that makes the availability 
of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the enactment of 
additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective before 
the date set forth in section 106(c) of this joint resolution.

[[Page 113 STAT. 509]]

    Sec. 110. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing 
herein shall be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 111. This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that had high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of fiscal year 1999 
appropriations at the beginning of that fiscal year because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees or 
others, similar distributions of funds for fiscal year 2000 shall not be 
made and no grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this 
resolution that would impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the rate for operations for projects and 
activities that would be funded under the heading ``International 
Organizations and Conferences, Contributions to International 
Organizations'' in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, shall be the 
amount provided by the provisions of section 101 multiplied by the ratio 
of the number of days covered by this resolution to 366.
    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the rate for operations for the 
following activities funded with Federal Funds for the District of 
Columbia, shall be at a rate for operations not exceeding the current 
rate, multiplied by the ratio of the number of days covered by this 
joint resolution to 366: Corrections Trustee Operations, Public Defender 
Services, Parole Revocation, Adult Probation, Offender Supervision, Sex 
Offender Registration, Pretrial Services, District of Columbia Courts, 
and Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts.
    Sec. 115. Activities authorized by sections 1309(a)(2), as amended 
by Public Law 104-208, and 1376(c) of the National Flood Insurance Act 
of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), may continue through the 
date specified in section 106(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 116. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the rate for operations for 
reimbursement of past losses for the Commodity Credit Corporation Fund 
shall be $11,500,000,000.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2195(a)(2)), the authority of section 
234(a) (b) and (c), of the same Act, shall remain in effect during the 
period of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 118. Notwithstanding sections 101, 104, and 106 of this joint 
resolution, funds may be used to initiate or resume projects or 
activities at a rate in excess of the current rate to the extent 
necessary, consistent with existing agency plans, to achieve Year 2000 
(Y2K) computer compliance and for implementation of business continuity 
and contingency plans.

[[Page 113 STAT. 510]]

    Sec. 119. Notwithstanding sections 101 and 104 of this joint 
resolution, not to exceed $189,524,382 shall be available for projects 
and activities for decennial census programs for the period covered by 
this joint resolution.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding section 101 of this joint resolution, the 
rate for operations for projects and activities funded by accounts in 
the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 as passed by the House and 
Senate affected by the foreign affairs reorganization shall be at the 
current rate for the accounts funding such projects and activities in 
the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, distributed into the accounts 
established in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 as passed by 
the House and Senate.
    Sec. 121. Notwithstanding section 309(g) of the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6208) and section 101 
of this joint resolution, the rate for operation for Radio Free Asia 
shall be at the current rate for operations and under the terms provided 
for in the fiscal year 1999 grant from the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors to RFA, Inc.
    Sec. 122. Public Law 106-46 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 227.>>  is amended by 
deleting ``October 1, 1999'' and inserting ``November 1, 1999''.

    Approved September 30, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 68:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Sept. 28, considered and passed House and Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Sept. 30, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>