[106th Congress Public Law 275]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ275.106]

             CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2001
Public Law 106-275
106th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2001, and for other 
         purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 29, 2000 -  [H.J. Res. 109]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for the 
fiscal year 2001, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority 
and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the 
fiscal year 2000 for continuing projects or activities including the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically 
provided for in this joint resolution) which were conducted in the 
fiscal year 2000 and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
would be available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (2) the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
        Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, 
        notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956 and, section 313 of the Foreign 
        Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public 
        Law 103-236);
            (3) the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (4) the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 
        2001;
            (5) the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2001, notwithstanding section 10 of 
        Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956;
            (6) the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (7) the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (8) the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (9) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2001;
            (10) the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 
        2001; and
            (11) the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
        Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
        2001:

Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted in these Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 2000, is different than that which would be 
available or granted under current operations, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the 
current rate: Provided further, That whenever there is no amount made 
available under any of these appropriations Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 2000, for a continuing project or activity 
which was conducted in fiscal year 2000 and for which there is fiscal 
year 2001 funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project 
or activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under 
the authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations 
Act for the fiscal year 2000.
    (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted under an Act listed in this section as 
passed by the House as of October 1, 2000, is different from that which 
would be available or granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as 
of October 1, 2000, the pertinent project or activity shall be continued 
at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate under the 
appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the applicable 
appropriations Act for the fiscal year 2001 and under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal 
year 2000.
    (c) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only 
the House or only the Senate as of October 1, 2000, the pertinent 
project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation, fund, or 
authority granted by the one House at a rate for operations not 
exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions 
provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal year 2000: 
Provided, That whenever there is no amount made available under any of 
these appropriations Acts as passed by the House or the Senate as of 
October 1, 2000, for a continuing project or activity which was 
conducted in fiscal year 2000 and for which there is fiscal year 2001 
funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under the 
authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act 
for the fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during the fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 104. No provision which is included in an appropriations Act 
enumerated in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2000 and which by its terms is 
applicable to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority shall be 
applicable to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred 
for any program, project, or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> Unless otherwise provided for 
in this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations Act, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until (a) enactment into law 
of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this 
joint resolution, or (b) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project 
or activity, or (c) October 6, 2000, whichever first occurs.

    Sec. 107. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108. No provision in the appropriations Act for the fiscal year 
2001 referred to in section 101 of this Act that makes the availability 
of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the enactment of 
additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective before 
the date set forth in section 106(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 109. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing 
herein shall be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 110. This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that had high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of fiscal year 2000 
appropriations at the beginning of that fiscal year because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees or 
others, similar distributions of funds for fiscal year 2001 shall not be 
made and no grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this 
resolution that would impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 112. Amounts provided by section 101 of this joint resolution, 
for projects and activities in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, 
affected by the termination of the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund, 
shall be distributed into the accounts established in the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001, as passed by the House.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the rate for operations for projects and 
activities that would be funded under the heading ``International 
Organizations and Conferences, Contributions to International 
Organizations'' in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, shall be the 
amount provided by the provisions of section 101 multiplied by the ratio 
of the number of days covered by this resolution to 365.
    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, only the following activities funded 
with Federal Funds for the District of Columbia, may be continued under 
this joint resolution at a rate for operations not exceeding the current 
rate, multiplied by the ratio of the number of days covered by this 
joint resolution to 365: Resident Tuition Support, Corrections Trustee 
Operations, Court Services and Offender Supervision, District of 
Columbia Courts, and Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts.
    Sec. 115. Activities authorized by sections 1309(a)(2), as amended 
by Public Law 104-208, and 1376(c) of the National Flood Insurance Act 
of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), may continue through the 
date specified in section 106(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 116. Notwithstanding subsections (a)(2) and (h)(1)(B) of 
section 3011 of Public Law 106-31, activities authorized for fiscal year 
2000 by such section may continue during the period covered by this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, the rate for operations for projects and activities for 
decennial census programs that would be funded under the heading 
``Bureau of the Census, Periodic Censuses and Programs'' in the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, shall be the budget request.
    Sec. 118. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution except section 106, the United States Geological Survey may 
sign a contract to maintain Landsat-7 flight operations consistent with 
the President's Budget proposal to transfer Landsat-7 flight operations 
responsibility from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to 
the United States Geological Survey beginning in fiscal year 2001.
    Sec. 119. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, funds previously appropriated to the American Section of the 
International Joint Commission in Public Law 106-246 may be obligated 
and expended in fiscal year 2001 without regard to section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended.

    Approved September 29, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 109:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Sept. 26, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 28, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Sept. 29, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>