[106th Congress Public Law 57]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ057.106]


[[Page 407]]

               LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000

[[Page 113 STAT. 408]]

Public Law 106-57
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
                                 ending 
     September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 29, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 1905]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2000.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

 TITLE <<NOTE: Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 2000. 2 USC 
60a note.>> I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as 
authorized by law, including agency contributions, $89,968,000, which 
shall be paid from this appropriation without regard to the below 
limitations, as follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,721,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $437,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,644,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 409]]

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,634,000.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $6,525,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,132,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,264,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $590,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,151,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,302,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $277,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $14,202,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $34,794,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,246,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $21,332,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,901,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,035,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 410]]

           Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, 
 Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the 
                   Majority and Minority of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $71,604,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $370,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,511,000.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $66,261,000.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $8,655,000.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$245,703,000.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Section <<NOTE: Effective date.>> 1. Effective in the case of any 
fiscal year which begins on or after October 1, 1999, clause (iii) of 
paragraph (3)(A) of section 506(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 58(b)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(iii) subject to subparagraph (B)--
                    ``(I) in case the Senator represents Alabama, 
                $116,300, Alaska, $221,600, Arizona, $128,975, Arkansas, 
                $118,250, California, $168,950, Colorado, $124,100, 
                Connecticut,

[[Page 113 STAT. 411]]

                $105,575, Delaware, $95,825, Florida, $120,200, Georgia, 
                $116,300, Hawaii, $245,000, Idaho, $128,000, Illinois, 
                $138,725, Indiana, $116,300, Iowa, $119,225, Kansas, 
                $119,225, Kentucky, $115,325, Louisiana, $120,200, 
                Maine, $110,450, Maryland, $100,700, Massachusetts, 
                $114,350, Michigan, $124,100, Minnesota, $120,200, 
                Mississippi, $118,250, Missouri, $121,175, Montana, 
                $128,000, Nebraska, $120,200, Nevada, $129,950, New 
                Hampshire, $106,550, New Jersey, $110,450, New Mexico, 
                $125,075, New York, $145,550, North Carolina, $112,400, 
                North Dakota, $119,225, Ohio, $129,950, Oklahoma, 
                $123,125, Oregon, $132,875, Pennsylvania, $128,975, 
                Rhode Island, $104,600, South Carolina, $110,450, South 
                Dakota, $120,200, Tennessee, $116,300, Texas, $149,450, 
                Utah, $128,000, Vermont, $105,575, Virginia, $106,550, 
                Washington, $135,800, West Virginia, $105,575, 
                Wisconsin, $119,225, Wyoming, $123,125, plus
                    ``(II) the amount that is equal to the Senator's 
                share for the fiscal year, as determined in accordance 
                with regulations of the Committee on Rules and 
                Administration, of the amount made available within the 
                Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account 
                in the contingent fund of the Senate for official mail 
                expenses of Senators, plus''.

    (b) Subparagraph (B) of section 506(b)(3) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 58(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``that part of the amount referred to in 
        subparagraph (A)(iii) that is not specifically allocated for 
        official mail expenses'' and inserting ``the amount referred to 
        in subparagraph (A)(iii)(I)''; and
            (2) by striking ``the part of the amount referred to in 
        subparagraph (A)(iii) that is allocated for official mail 
        expenses'' and inserting ``the amount referred to in 
        subparagraph (A)(iii)(II)''.

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. 2 USC 58 note.>> The 
amendments made by this section shall apply to any fiscal year which 
begins on or after October 1, 1999.

    Sec. 2. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective on and after October 1, 
1999, each of the dollar amounts contained in the table under section 
105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 
U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that 
table, as increased by section 8 of Public Law 105-275, increased by an 
additional $50,000 each.

    Sec. 3. Senate Office Space Allocations. Section 3 under the heading 
``Administrative Provisions'' in the appropriation for the Senate in the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1975 (2 U.S.C. 59; 88 Stat. 428) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting 
                the following:
            ``(1) 5,000 square feet if the population of the State of 
        the Senator is less than 3,000,000;'';
                    (B) by striking ``8,000'' in paragraph (13) and 
                inserting ``8,200''; and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (13) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (12), respectively; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``$30,000'' and inserting 
                ``$40,000'';

[[Page 113 STAT. 412]]

                    (B) by striking ``4,800'' and inserting ``5,000'';
                    (C) by striking ``$734'' and inserting ``$1,000''; 
                and
                    (D) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> by adding at the end 
                the following: ``Effective beginning with the 106th 
                Congress, the aggregate amount in effect under this 
                paragraph for any Congress shall be increased by the 
                inflation adjustment factor for the calendar year in 
                which the Congress begins. For purposes of the preceding 
                sentence, the inflation adjustment factor for any 
                calendar year is a fraction the numerator of which is 
                the implicit price deflator for the gross domestic 
                product as computed and published by the Department of 
                Commerce for the preceding calendar year and the 
                denominator of which is such deflator for the calendar 
                year 1998.''.

    Sec. 4. Section 6(c) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-275; 2 U.S.C. 121b-1(c)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(3) The provisions of section 4 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 
U.S.C. 193d), except for the provisions relating to solicitation, shall 
not apply to any activity carried out pursuant to this section, subject 
to approval of such activities by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.''.
    Sec. 5. The first section of Public Law 87-82 (40 U.S.C. 174j-1) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``The provisions of section 
4 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193d), except for the 
provisions relating to solicitation, shall not apply to any activity 
carried out pursuant to this section, subject to the approval of such 
activities by the Committee on Rules and Administration.''.
    Sec. 6. <<NOTE: 2 USC 274 note.>> The Legislative Counsel may, 
subject to the approval of the President pro tempore of the Senate, 
designate one of the Senior Counsels appointed under section 102 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1979 (2 U.S.C. 274 note; Public 
Law 95-391; 92 Stat. 771) as Deputy Legislative Counsel. The Deputy 
Legislative Counsel shall perform the functions of the Legislative 
Counsel during the absence or disability of the Legislative Counsel, or 
when the office is vacant.

    Sec. 7. Section 814(i) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (22 U.S.C. 2291 note) is amended by striking 
``September 30, 1999'' and inserting ``September 30, 2002''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$760,884,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $14,202,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,740,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,705,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $2,071,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,423,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy

[[Page 113 STAT. 413]]

Minority Whip, $1,057,000, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
Minority Whip; Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor 
Activities, $406,000; Republican Steering Committee, $757,000; 
Republican Conference, $1,244,000; Democratic Steering and Policy 
Committee, $1,337,000; Democratic Caucus, $664,000; nine minority 
employees, $1,218,000; training and program development--majority, 
$290,000; and training and program development--minority, $290,000: 
Provided, That the amounts otherwise provided under this heading for the 
various leadership offices shall be reduced in a manner approved by the 
Committee on Appropriations such that the aggregate amount appropriated 
under this heading is $142,000 less than the aggregate amount otherwise 
provided.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $406,279,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $93,878,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2000.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$21,095,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2000.

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $90,150,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $3,500, of which not 
more than $2,500 is for the Family Room, for official representation and 
reception expenses, $14,881,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages, and including not more than $750 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $3,746,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, $57,289,000, of which 
$2,500,000 shall remain available until expended, including $25,519,000 
for salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of House 
Information Resources, of which $24,641,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That of the amount provided for House Information Resources, 
$6,260,000 shall be for net expenses of telecommunications: Provided 
further,

[[Page 113 STAT. 414]]

That House Information Resources is authorized to receive reimbursement 
from Members of the House of Representatives and other governmental 
entities for services provided and such reimbursement shall be deposited 
in the Treasury for credit to this account; for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Inspector General, $3,926,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $840,000; for the Office of 
the Chaplain, $136,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for preparing 
the Digest of Rules, $1,172,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $2,045,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the House, 
$5,085,000; for salaries and expenses of the Corrections Calendar 
Office, $825,000; and for other authorized employees, $205,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $135,422,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $2,741,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $131,595,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of 
House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
heirs of deceased employees of the House, $676,000.

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: 2 USC 130f.>> (a) Compliance With Admission 
Requirements.--The General Counsel of the House of Representatives and 
any other counsel in the Office of the General Counsel of the House of 
Representatives, including any counsel specially retained by the Office 
of General Counsel, shall be entitled, for the purpose of performing the 
counsel's functions, to enter an appearance in any proceeding before any 
court of the United States or of any State or political subdivision 
thereof without compliance with any requirements for admission to 
practice before such court, except that the authorization conferred by 
this subsection shall not apply with respect to the admission of any 
such person to practice before the United States Supreme Court.

    (b) Notification by Attorney General.--The Attorney 
General shall notify the General Counsel of the House of Representatives 
with respect to any proceeding in which the United States is a party of 
any determination by the Attorney General or Solicitor General not to 
appeal any court decision affecting the constitutionality of an Act or 
joint resolution of Congress within such time as will enable the House 
to direct the General Counsel to

[[Page 113 STAT. 415]]

intervene as a party in such proceeding pursuant to applicable rules of 
the House of Representatives.
    (c) General Counsel Definition.--In this section, the term ``General 
Counsel of the House of Representatives'' means--
            (1) the head of the Office of General Counsel established 
        and operating under clause 8 of rule II of the Rules of the 
        House of Representatives;
            (2) the head of any successor office to the Office of 
        General Counsel which is established after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (3) any other person authorized and directed in accordance 
        with the Rules of the House of Representatives to provide legal 
        assistance and representation to the House in connection with 
        the matters described in this section.

    (d) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section shall become 
effective beginning with the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 102. Section 104(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999 <<NOTE: 2 USC 59e.>>  (Public Law 105-275; 112 Stat. 2439) is 
amended by striking ``(2 U.S.C. 59(e)(2))'' and inserting ``(2 U.S.C. 
59e(e)(2))''.

    Sec. 103. (a) Clarification of Rules Regarding Use of Funds for 
Official Mail.--
            (1) In general.--Section 311(e)(1) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 59e(e)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``There is established'' and all that follows 
                through ``shall be prescribed--'' and inserting the 
                following: ``The use of funds of the House of 
                Representatives which are made available for official 
                mail of Members, officers, and employees of the House of 
                Representatives who are persons entitled to use the 
                congressional frank shall be governed by regulations 
                promulgated--''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the 
                Allowance'' and inserting ``official mail (except as 
                provided in subparagraph (B))''.
            (2) Limitations on availability of funds.--Section 311(e)(2) 
        of such Act (2 U.S.C. 59e(e)(2)), as amended by section 104(a) 
        of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999, is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``The Official Mail Allowance'' and inserting 
                ``Funds used for official mail'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            (3) Repeal of obsolete transfer authority.--Section 311(e) 
        of such Act (2 U.S.C. 59e(e)) is amended by striking paragraph 
        (3).
            (4) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 1(a) of House 
        Resolution 457, Ninety-second Congress, agreed to July 21, 1971, 
        as enacted into permanent law by chapter IV of the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 1972 (2 U.S.C. 57(a)), is amended by 
        striking ``the Official Mail Allowance'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``official mail''.
            (B) Section 311(a)(3) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 59e(a)(3)) is amended by 
        striking

[[Page 113 STAT. 416]]

        ``costs charged against the Official Mail Allowance for'' and 
        inserting ``costs incurred for official mail by''.

    (b) Repeal of Obsolete References to Clerk Hire 
Allowance.--
            (1) In general.--Section 104(a) of the House of 
        Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections Act 
        (2 U.S.C. 92(a)) is amended by striking ``clerk hire'' each 
        place it appears.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of section 104 of 
        such Act (2 U.S.C. 92(a)) is amended by striking ``clerk hire''.

    (c) Effective <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 57 note.>> Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to the first 
session of the One Hundred Sixth Congress and each succeeding session of 
Congress.

    Sec. 104. Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances to be Used for Deficit Reduction or to 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2000. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2000 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,200,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$6,456,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each not 
to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,002,600 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for

[[Page 113 STAT. 417]]

all the purposes thereof, $1,898,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $78,501,000, of which $37,725,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House, and $40,776,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and $85 per month for 
extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board by an employee of 
the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
designated by the Chairman of the Board, $6,574,000, to be disbursed by 
the Capitol Police Board or their delegee: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic training 
for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center 
for fiscal year 2000 shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury from 
funds available to the Department of the Treasury.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 105. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2000 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided

[[Page 113 STAT. 418]]

        to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $2,293,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than 43 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is 
authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two additional 
individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more than 10 
additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the Capitol 
Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the One Hundred Sixth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations Acts as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,000,000.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $26,221,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Performance awards. 2 USC 608.>> (a) The Director 
of the Congressional Budget Office shall have the authority to make 
lump-sum payments to enhance staff recruitment and to reward exceptional 
performance by an employee or a group of employees.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability.>> Subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 1999.

[[Page 113 STAT. 419]]

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of the Capitol and 
electrical substations of the Senate and House office buildings under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, including furnishings 
and office equipment, including not more than $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and not to exceed $20,000 for 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $46,836,000, of which 
$4,390,000 shall remain available until expended.

                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,427,000, of which $155,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$64,038,000, of which $22,305,000 shall remain available until expended.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $37,279,000, of which $4,442,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power 
(including the purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer 
services for the Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of 
Congress buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, 
Senate garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from 
plants in any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office 
and Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal

[[Page 113 STAT. 420]]

Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare Library, expenses for 
which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request of the Architect of 
the Capitol and amounts so received shall be deposited into the Treasury 
to the credit of this appropriation, $38,054,000, of which $3,000,000 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That not more than 
$4,000,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2000.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$71,244,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; 
and printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$73,577,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year limitation 
under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of the funds 
appropriated or made available under this Act or any other Act for 
printing and binding and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print a 
document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 421]]

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, 
and collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,425,000.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $256,779,000, of which not 
more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2000, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from collections 
during fiscal year 2000 and shall remain available until expended for 
the development and maintenance of an international legal information 
database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the Library of 
Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount 
by which collections are less than the $6,850,000: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $10,321,380 is to remain 
available until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, 
newspapers, and all other materials including subscriptions for 
bibliographic services for the Library, including $40,000 to be 
available solely for the purchase, when specifically approved by the 
Librarian, of special and unique materials for additions to the 
collections: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$2,347,000 is to remain available until expended for the acquisition and 
partial support for implementation of an Integrated Library System 
(ILS): Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$5,579,000 is to remain available until expended for the purpose of 
teaching educators how to incorporate the Library's digital collections 
into school curricula, which amount shall be transferred to the 
educational consortium formed to conduct the ``Joining Hands Across 
America: Local Community Initiative'' project as approved by the 
Library: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$600,000 is to remain available until expended for the purpose of 
digitizing archival materials relating to ethnic groups of

[[Page 113 STAT. 422]]

California, including Japanese Americans, which amount shall be 
transferred to an educational archive able to conduct such a project as 
approved by the Library.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $37,628,000, of 
which not more than $20,800,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2000 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d): Provided, That the Copyright 
Office may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That 
not more than $5,454,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal 
year 2000 under 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $26,254,000: 
Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated 
is available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies: Provided further, That not more than $4,250 
may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for 
activities of the International Copyright Institute and for copyright 
delegations, visitors, and seminars.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $47,984,000, of which 
$14,019,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and repair of furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, 
$5,415,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $198,390, of 
which $59,300 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian of Congress, for attendance at 
meetings concerned with the function or activity for which the 
appropriation is made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
              (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and

[[Page 113 STAT. 423]]

              (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be 
        at work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked 
        by the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a)(10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of 
Congress from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative 
overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other 
agencies under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be 
used to employ more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations 
        Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or
                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 204. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. (a) For fiscal year 2000, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $98,788,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the legislative 
branch.
    Sec. 207. <<NOTE: 41 USC 253l-2.>> The Library of Congress may use 
available funds, now and hereafter, to enter into contracts for the 
lease or acquisition of severable services for a period that begins in 
one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year and to enter into 
multi-year contracts for the acquisition of property and services 
pursuant to sections 303L and 304B, respectively, of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act (41 U.S.C. 253l and 254c).

    Sec. 208. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding 
the qualifications and method of appointment of employees of the Library 
of Congress, the Librarian of Congress, using such method of appointment 
as the Librarian may select, may appoint not more than three individuals 
who meet such qualifications as the Librarian may impose to serve as 
management specialists for a term not to exceed 3 years.
    (b) No individual appointed as a management specialist under 
subsection (a) may serve in such position after December 31, 2004.

[[Page 113 STAT. 424]]

    Sec. 209. (a) Section 904 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1983 (2 U.S.C. 136a-2) <<NOTE: 2 USC 136a-2 note.>>  is amended to read 
as follows:

    ``Sec. 904. Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            ``(1) the Librarian of Congress shall be compensated at an 
        annual rate of pay which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
        pay payable for positions at level II of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5313 of title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(2) the Deputy Librarian of Congress shall be compensated 
        at an annual rate of pay which is equal to the annual rate of 
        basic pay payable for positions at level III of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5314 of title 5, United States Code.''.

    (b) Section 203(c)(1) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 
(2 U.S.C. 166(c)(1)) is amended by striking the second sentence and 
inserting the following: ``The basic pay of the Director shall be at a 
per annum rate equal to the rate of basic pay provided for level III of 
the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 5, United States 
Code.''.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. 2 USC 136a-2 note.>> The 
amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to the first 
pay period which begins on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act and each subsequent pay period.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$16,033,000, of which $3,650,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,986,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $175,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 1998 and 
1999 to depository and other designated libraries.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section

[[Page 113 STAT. 425]]

9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs and purposes set forth in the budget for the current 
fiscal year for the Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, 
That not more than $2,500 may be expended on the certification of the 
Public Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: 
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary 
to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of 
the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available 
for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,313 workyears (or 
such other number of workyears as the Public Printer may request, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives): Provided further, That 
activities financed through the revolving fund may provide information 
in any format: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall not be 
used to administer any flexible or compressed work schedule which 
applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade or level of 
which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That expenses 
for attendance at meetings shall not exceed $75,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 210. (a) Section 311 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 3709 of 
the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5) shall apply with respect to purchases 
and contracts for the Government Printing Office as if the reference to 
`$25,000' in clause (1) of such section were a reference to 
`$100,000'.''.
    (b) The heading of section 311 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``authority'' and inserting ``authority; small 
purchase threshold''.
    (c) The table of sections for chapter 3 of title 44, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 311 and 
inserting the following:

``311. Purchases exempt from the Federal Property and Administrative 
           Services Act; contract negotiation authority; small purchase 
           threshold.''.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or

[[Page 113 STAT. 426]]

intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of 
the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; 
benefits comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6), and 
901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), 
and 4081(8)); and under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller 
General of the United States, rental of living quarters in foreign 
countries, $379,000,000: Provided, <<NOTE: 31 USC 9105 note.>> That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to the 
Comptroller General pursuant to that section shall be deposited to the 
appropriation of the General Accounting Office then available and remain 
available until expended, and not more than $1,400,000 of such funds 
shall be available for use in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That 
this appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including necessary 
travel expenses of non-Federal participants. Payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, 
including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the 
International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2000 unless expressly so 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in 
this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available

[[Page 113 STAT. 427]]

for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing 
law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $1,500.
    Sec. 308. Section 308 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-275; 112 Stat. 2452) <<NOTE: 40 USC 166b-7 note.>>  
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-
        1(b)(1))'' and inserting ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-1 note)'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-1(c))'' 
        and inserting ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-1 note)''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-1(e))'' 
        and inserting ``(40 U.S.C. 174j-1 note)''.

    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-6.>> Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 
is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``1999'' 
and inserting ``2000''.

    Sec. 310. Chapter 5 of title II of division B of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-569) is amended in the matter under the 
subheading ``Capitol Visitor Center'' under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF 
THE CAPITOL'' by striking ``the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate, the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
Representatives, the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and of the Senate, and other appropriate committees of 
the House of Representatives and of the Senate'' and inserting ``the 
United States Capitol Preservation Commission established under section 
801 of the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988 (40 U.S.C. 188a)''.
    Sec. 311. Trade Deficit Review Commission. (a) Appropriations.--
Section 127(i) of the Trade Deficit Review Commission Act

[[Page 113 STAT. 428]]

(19 U.S.C. 2213 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence:
``Amounts appropriated pursuant to this subsection shall remain 
available until the date which is 90 days after the date on which the 
Commission submits the final report described in subsection (e).''.
    (b) Applicability <<NOTE: 19 USC 2213 note.>> of certain pay 
authorities to members of the commission.--Section 127(g) of the Trade 
Deficit Review Commission Act is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Applicability of certain pay authorities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An individual who is a member of 
                the Commission and is an annuitant or otherwise covered 
                by section 8344 or 8468 of title 5, United States Code, 
                by reason of membership on the Commission is not subject 
                to the provisions of section 8344 or 8468 (whichever is 
                applicable) with respect to such membership.
                    ``(B) Uniformed service.--An individual who is a 
                member of the Commission and is a member or former 
                member of a uniformed service is not subject to the 
                provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of section 5532, 
                United States Code, with respect to membership on the 
                Commission.''.

    (c) Termination of Commission and Other Matters.--
Section 127 of the Trade Deficit Review Commission Act <<NOTE: 19 USC 
2213 note.>>  is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsections:

    ``(j) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The provisions of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (Public Law 92-463; 5 U.S.C. App.) shall not 
apply to the Commission.
    ``(k) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 90 days after the 
date on which the Commission submits the final report under subsection 
(e).''.
    Sec. 312. Creditable Service With Congressional Campaign Committees. 
Section 8332(m)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(A) such employee has at least 4 years and 6 months of 
        service on such committees as of December 12, 1980; and''.

    Sec. 313. Section 507 of Public Law 104-1 (109 Stat. 43; 2 U.S.C. 
1436) is repealed.

TITLE IV--FISCAL <<NOTE: Legislative Branch Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999.>> YEAR 1999 SUPPLEMENTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH FUNDS

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

      Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For <<NOTE: Marta Macias Brown.>> payment to Marta Macias Brown, 
widow of George E. Brown, Jr., late a Representative from the State of 
California, $136,700: Provided, That this provision shall take effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 401. (a) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-275; 112 Stat. 2437) is amended in the item relating to 
``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and

[[Page 113 STAT. 429]]

Expenses--salaries, officers and employees'' by striking ``$24,282,000'' 
and inserting ``$24,982,000''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1999.

    This title may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

    Approved September 29, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1905 (S. 1206):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-156 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-290   
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-75 accompanying S. 1206 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            June 10, considered and passed House.
            June 16, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 1206.
            Aug. 5, House and Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>