[106th Congress Private Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl006.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3097]]

Private Law 106-6
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    For the relief of Akal Security, Incorporated. <<NOTE: Oct. 10, 
                         2000 -  [H.R. 3363]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PAYMENT FOR SERVICES PERFORMED BUT NOT PAID.

    Notwithstanding section 2465 of title 10, United States Code, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, to Akal Security, Incorporated, a New Mexico 
corporation incorporated in New Mexico, $10,208.74 for security guard 
services rendered in 1991 to the United States Army Reserve Personnel 
Center located at 9700 Page Boulevard in St. Louis, Missouri.

SEC. 2. EXTINGUISHMENT OF LIABILITY.

    Notwithstanding section 2465 of title 10, United States Code, any 
liability of Akal Security, Incorporated, to the United States for 
repayment of $57,771.29 for the services described in section 1 is 
hereby extinguished.

SEC. 3. FULL SATISFACTION.

    The relief under sections 1 and 2 shall, when accepted by or on 
behalf of Akal Security, Incorporated, be in full satisfaction of all 
claims of or on behalf of Akal Security, Incorporated, against the 
United States or against any officer, employee, or agent of the United 
States acting within the scope of employment or agency, for payment for 
the services described in section 1.

SEC. 4. LIMITATION ON ATTORNEY FEES.

    It shall be unlawful for an amount exceeding 10 percent of the 
amount paid pursuant to section 1 to be paid to, or received by, any 
agent or attorney for any service rendered in connection with the claim 
described in such section. Any person who violates this section shall be 
guilty of an infraction, and shall be subject to a fine in the amount 
provided in title 18, United States Code.

    Approved October 10, 2000.