[106th Congress Public Law 575]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ575.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3063]]

Public Law 106-575
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Forest Service to convey certain lands in the Lake 
     Tahoe Basin to the Washoe County School District for use as an 
     elementary school site. <<NOTE: Dec. 28, 2000 -  [H.R. 4656]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: Nevada.>> CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN FOREST SERVICE LAND 
            IN THE LAKE TAHOE BASIN.

    (a) Conveyance.--Upon application, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, may convey to the Washoe 
County School District all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in the property described as a portion of the Northwest quarter 
of Section 15, Township 16 North, Range 18 East, M.D.B. & M., more 
particularly described as Parcel 1 of Parcel Map No. 426 for Boise 
Cascade, filed in the office of the Washoe County Recorder, State of 
Nevada, on May 19, 1977, as file No. 465601, Official Records.
    (b) Review <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of Application.--When the Secretary 
receives an application to convey the property under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall make a final determination whether or not to convey such 
property before the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date of 
the receipt of the application.

    (c) Use; Reversion.--The conveyance of the property under subsection 
(a) shall be for the sole purpose of the construction of an elementary 
school on the property. The property conveyed shall revert to the United 
States if the property is used for a purpose other than as an elementary 
school site.
    (d) Consideration Based on Requirement To Use for Limited Public 
Purposes.--The Secretary shall determine the amount of any consideration 
required for the conveyance of property under this section based on the 
fair market value of the property when it is subject to the restriction 
on use under subsection (c).
    (e) Proceeds.--The proceeds from the conveyance of the property 
under subsection (a) shall be available to the Secretary without further 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended for the purpose 
of acquiring environmentally sensitive land in the Lake Tahoe Basin 
pursuant to section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the 
orderly disposal of certain Federal lands in Nevada and for the 
acquisition of certain other lands in the Lake Tahoe Basin, and for 
other purposes'', approved December 23, 1980 (94 Stat. 3381; commonly 
known as the ``Santini-Burton Act'').
    (f ) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
any sale of National Forest System land under this section

[[Page 114 STAT. 3064]]

shall be subject to the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
conveyance of National Forest System lands.

    Approved December 28, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4656:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-885 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 10, 12, considered and rejected in House.
            Oct. 24, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>