[106th Congress Public Law 251]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ251.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 624]]

Public Law 106-251
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the award of a gold medal on behalf of the Congress to 
former President Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy Reagan in recognition 
 of their service to the Nation. <<NOTE: July 27, 2000 -  [H.R. 3591]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 
note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Both former President Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy 
        Reagan have distinguished records of public service to the 
        United States, the American people, and the international 
        community.
            (2) As President, Ronald Reagan restored ``the great, 
        confident roar of American progress, growth, and optimism'', a 
        pledge which he made before elected to office.
            (3) President Ronald Reagan's leadership was instrumental in 
        uniting a divided world by bringing about an end to the cold 
        war.
            (4) The United States enjoyed sustained economic prosperity 
        and employment growth during Ronald Reagan's presidency.
            (5) President Ronald Reagan's wife Nancy not only served as 
        a gracious First Lady but also as a proponent for preventing 
        alcohol and drug use among the Nation's youth by championing the 
        ``Just Say No'' campaign.
            (6) Together, Ronald and Nancy Reagan dedicated their lives 
        to promoting national pride and to bettering the quality of life 
        in the United States and throughout the world.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the 
Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to former President 
Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy Reagan in recognition of their service 
to the Nation.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal 
with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by 
the Secretary.

[[Page 114 STAT. 625]]

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary 
may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck 
pursuant to section 2 at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the 
medals (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead 
expenses) and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of 
chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. FUNDING AND PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization.--There is hereby authorized to be charged against 
the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund an amount not to exceed 
$30,000 to pay for the cost of the medals authorized by this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved July 27, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3591:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Apr. 3, considered and passed House.
            July 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>