[106th Congress Public Law 348]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ348.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1358]]

Public Law 106-348
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To authorize the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation to 
  establish a memorial in the District of Columbia or its environs to 
honor veterans who became disabled while serving in the Armed Forces of 
       the United States. <<NOTE: Oct. 24, 2000 -  [H.R. 1509]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note.>>  MEMORIAL TO HONOR DISABLED 
            VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Memorial Authorized.--The Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial 
Foundation is authorized to establish a memorial on Federal land in the 
District of Columbia or its environs to honor veterans who became 
disabled while serving in the Armed Forces of the United States.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial shall be in accordance with the 
Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
    (c) Payment of Expenses.--The Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial 
Foundation shall be solely responsible for acceptance of contributions 
for, and payment of the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial. 
No Federal funds may be used to pay any expense of the establishment of 
the memorial.
    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, upon payment of all expenses of 
the establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and 
preservation amount required under section 8(b) of the Commemorative 
Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1008(b))), or upon expiration of the authority for 
the memorial under section 10(b) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)), there 
remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the 
memorial, the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation shall transmit 
the amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit 
in the account provided for in section 8(b)(1) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 
1008(b)(1)).

    Approved October 24, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1509:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-583 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            May 2, 3, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>