[106th Congress Public Law 123]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ123.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1639]]

Public Law 106-123
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To designate certain facilities of the United States Postal Service in 
        Chicago, Illinois. <<NOTE: Dec. 6, 1999 -  [H.R. 1191]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CARDISS COLLINS POST OFFICE BUILDING.

    (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 433 West Harrison Street in Chicago, Illinois, is hereby 
designated as the ``Cardiss Collins Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to such facility in any law, 
regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
shall be considered to be a reference to the ``Cardiss Collins Post 
Office Building''.

SEC. 2. OTIS GRANT COLLINS POST OFFICE BUILDING.

    (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 2302 South Pulaski Street in Chicago, Illinois, is hereby 
designated as the ``Otis Grant Collins Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to such facility in any law, 
regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
shall be considered to be a reference to the ``Otis Grant Collins Post 
Office Building''.

SEC. 3. MARY ALICE (MA) HENRY POST OFFICE BUILDING.

    (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 4222 West Madison Street in Chicago, Illinois, is hereby 
designated as the ``Mary Alice (Ma) Henry Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to such facility in any law, 
regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
shall be considered to be a reference to the ``Mary Alice (Ma) Henry 
Post Office Building''.

SEC. 4. ROBERT LEFLORE, JR. POST OFFICE BUILDING.

    (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 50001 West Division Street in Chicago, Illinois, is hereby 
designated as the ``Robert LeFlore, Jr. Post Office Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to such facility in any law, 
regulation, map, document, paper, or other record of the United

[[Page 113 STAT. 1640]]

States shall be considered to be a reference to the ``Robert LeFlore, 
Jr. Post Office Building''.

    Approved December 6, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1191:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            May 24, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>