[106th Congress Public Law 429]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ429.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1900]]

Public Law 106-429
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE:  Nov. 6, 2000 -  [H.R. 4811]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

    Section 101. <<NOTE: Incorporation by reference.>>  (a) The 
provisions of H.R. 5526 of the 106th Congress, as introduced on October 
24, 2000, are hereby enacted into law.

    (b) <<NOTE: Publication. 1 USC 112 note.>>  In publishing this Act 
in slip form and in the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to 
section 112 of title 1, United States Code, the Archivist of the United 
States shall include after the date of approval at the end an appendix 
setting forth the text of the bill referred to in subsection (a) of this 
section.

    Approved November 6, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4811 (S. 2522):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-720 (Comm. on Appropriations) and No. 106-997 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-291 accompanying S. 2522 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 12, 13, considered and passed House.
            July 18, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 2522.
            Oct. 25, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Nov. 6, Presidential statement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ENDNOTE: The following appendix was added pursuant to the provisions 
of section 101 of this Act.

                                  <all>

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-1]]



                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

                  The table of contents is as follows:

                          APPENDIX A--H.R. 5526

                          APPENDIX A-1--S. 3140

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-3]]



                          APPENDIX A--H.R. 5526

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                TITLE I--EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                 export-import bank of the united states

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country other than a nuclear-
weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                          subsidy appropriation

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, insurance, and tied-
aid grants as authorized by section 10 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945, as amended, $865,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2004: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019 for the disbursement of direct loans, loan 
guarantees, insurance and tied-aid grants obligated in fiscal years 
2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act or any prior Act appropriating funds for 
foreign operations, export financing, or related programs for tied-aid 
credits or grants may be used for any other purpose except through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated by this paragraph are made 
available notwithstanding section 2(b)(2) of the Export Import Bank Act 
of 1945, in connection with the purchase or lease of any product by any 
East European country, any Baltic State or any agency or national 
thereof.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-4]]

                         administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $30,000 
for official reception and representation expenses for members of the 
Board of Directors, $62,000,000: Provided, That necessary expenses 
(including special services performed on a contract or fee basis, but 
not including other personal services) in connection with the collection 
of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, repossession or sale of pledged 
collateral or other assets acquired by the Export-Import Bank in 
satisfaction of moneys owed the Export-Import Bank, or the investigation 
or appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the legal or 
technical aspects of any transaction for which an application for a 
loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made, shall be 
considered nonadministrative expenses for the purposes of this heading: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of 
the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain 
in effect until October 1, 2001.

                 overseas private investment corporation

                            noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by 31 U.S.C. 
9104, such expenditures and commitments within the limits of funds 
available to it and in accordance with law as may be necessary: 
Provided, That the amount available for administrative expenses to carry 
out the credit and insurance programs (including an amount for official 
reception and representation expenses which shall not exceed $35,000) 
shall not exceed $38,000,000: Provided further, That project-specific 
transaction costs, including direct and indirect costs incurred in 
claims settlements, and other direct costs associated with services 
provided to specific investors or potential investors pursuant to 
section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall not be 
considered administrative expenses for the purposes of this heading.

                             program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $24,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
noncredit account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall 
be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty commitments 
incurred or made during fiscal years 2001 and 2002: Provided further, 
That such sums shall remain available through fiscal year 2010 for the 
disbursement of direct and guaranteed loans obligated in fiscal years 
2001 and 2002: Provided further, That in addition, such sums as may be 
necessary for administrative expenses to carry out the credit program 
may be derived from amounts available for administrative expenses to 
carry out the credit and insurance programs in the Overseas Private

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-5]]

Investment Corporation Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002.

                 TITLE II--BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, to remain available until September 30, 2001, unless otherwise 
specified herein, as follows:

                  agency for international development

                child survival and disease programs fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 and 
10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for child survival, 
basic education, assistance to combat tropical and other infectious 
diseases, and related activities, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, $963,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That this amount shall be made available for such 
activities as: (1) immunization programs; (2) oral rehydration programs; 
(3) health and nutrition programs, and related education programs, which 
address the needs of mothers and children; (4) water and sanitation 
programs; (5) assistance for displaced and orphaned children; (6) 
programs for the prevention, treatment, and control of, and research on, 
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, polio, malaria and other infectious diseases; 
and (7) basic education programs for children: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available 
for nonproject assistance, except that funds may be made available for 
such assistance for basic education and ongoing health programs: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
to exceed $125,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used to monitor and provide oversight of child 
survival, maternal health, and infectious disease programs: Provided 
further, That the following amounts should be allocated as follows: 
$295,000,000 for child survival and maternal health; $30,000,000 for 
vulnerable children; $300,000,000 for HIV/AIDS; $125,000,000 for other 
infectious diseases; $103,000,000 for children's basic education; and 
$110,000,000 for UNICEF: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, up to $50,000,000 may be made available 
for a United States contribution to the Global Fund for Children's 
Vaccines, up to $10,000,000 may be made available for the International 
AIDS Vaccine Initiative, and up to $20,000,000 may be made available for 
a United States contribution to an international HIV/AIDS fund as 
authorized by subtitle B, title I of Public Law 106-264, or a comparable 
international HIV/AIDS fund.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-6]]

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103 
through 106, and chapter 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, title V of the International Security and Development Cooperation 
Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533) and the provisions of section 401 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $1,305,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the amount appropriated 
under this heading, up to $12,000,000 may be made available for and 
apportioned directly to the Inter-American Foundation: Provided further, 
That of the amount appropriated under this heading, up to $16,000,000 
may be made available for the African Development Foundation and shall 
be apportioned directly to that agency: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated balances from 
prior appropriations may be made available to any organization or 
program which, as determined by the President of the United States, 
supports or participates in the management of a program of coercive 
abortion or involuntary sterilization: Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available under this heading may be used to pay for the 
performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to motivate or 
coerce any person to practice abortions; and that in order to reduce 
reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be available 
only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly 
or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range of 
family planning methods and services, and that any such voluntary family 
planning project shall meet the following requirements: (1) service 
providers or referral agents in the project shall not implement or be 
subject to quotas, or other numerical targets, of total number of 
births, number of family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a 
particular method of family planning (this provision shall not be 
construed to include the use of quantitative estimates or indicators for 
budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the project shall not include 
payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or financial reward to: (A) 
an individual in exchange for becoming a family planning acceptor; or 
(B) program personnel for achieving a numerical target or quota of total 
number of births, number of family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a 
particular method of family planning; (3) the project shall not deny any 
right or benefit, including the right of access to participate in any 
program of general welfare or the right of access to health care, as a 
consequence of any individual's decision not to accept family planning 
services; (4) the project shall provide family planning acceptors 
comprehensible information on the health benefits and risks of the 
method chosen, including those conditions that might render the use of 
the method inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be 
consequent to the use of the method; and (5) the project shall ensure 
that experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and medical procedures 
are provided only in the context of a scientific study in which 
participants are advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less 
than 60 days after the date on which the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development determines that there has 
been a violation of the requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), 
(3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or practice of violations of 
the requirements contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso, the 
Administrator shall submit to the Committee on

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-7]]

International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, a report containing a 
description of such violation and the corrective action taken by the 
Agency: Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family 
planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no 
applicant shall be discriminated against because of such applicant's 
religious or conscientious commitment to offer only natural family 
planning; and, additionally, all such applicants shall comply with the 
requirements of the previous proviso: Provided further, That for 
purposes of this or any other Act authorizing or appropriating funds for 
foreign operations, export financing, and related programs, the term 
``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, shall not be 
construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local law, of 
information or counseling about all pregnancy options: Provided further, 
That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing 
statutory prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for any activity 
which is in contravention to the Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna (CITES): Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading that are made available for 
assistance programs for displaced and orphaned children and victims of 
war, not to exceed $25,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for 
such purposes, may be used to monitor and provide oversight of such 
programs: Provided further, That of the aggregate amount of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 
1989, not less than $310,000,000 should be made available for 
agriculture and rural development programs of which $30,000,000 should 
be made available for plant biotechnology research and development: 
Provided further, That not less than $2,300,000 should be made available 
for core support for the International Fertilizer Development Center: 
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not 
less than $5,200,000 shall be made available to AmeriCares for the 
construction, rehabilitation, and operation of community-based primary 
healthcare facilities in Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala, and El 
Salvador: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $500,000 should be made available for support of 
the United States Telecommunications Training Institute: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $17,000,000 should be made available for the American Schools and 
Hospitals Abroad program: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $2,000,000 should be 
available to support an international media training center.

                                 cyprus

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $15,000,000 
shall be made available for Cyprus to be used only for scholarships, 
administrative support of the scholarship program, bicommunal projects, 
and measures aimed at reunification of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-8]]

island and designed to reduce tensions and promote peace and cooperation 
between the two communities on Cyprus.

                                 lebanon

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $35,000,000 
shall be made available for Lebanon to be used, among other programs, 
for scholarships and direct support of the American educational 
institutions in Lebanon.

                                  burma

    Of the funds appropriated under the headings ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Development Assistance'', not less than $6,500,000 shall be 
made available to support democracy activities in Burma, democracy and 
humanitarian activities along the Burma-Thailand border, and for Burmese 
student groups and other organizations located outside Burma: Provided, 
That funds made available for Burma-related activities under this 
heading may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law: Provided further, That the provision of such funds shall be made 
available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                            conservation fund

    Of the funds made available under the headings ``Development 
Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $4,000,000 
should be made available to support the preservation of habitats and 
related activities for endangered wildlife.

                   private and voluntary organizations

    None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act for development assistance may be made available to any United 
States private and voluntary organization, except any cooperative 
development organization, which obtains less than 20 percent of its 
total annual funding for international activities from sources other 
than the United States Government: Provided, That the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development, after informing the Committees 
on Appropriations, may, on a case-by-case basis, waive the restriction 
contained in this paragraph, after taking into account the effectiveness 
of the overseas development activities of the organization, its level of 
volunteer support, its financial viability and stability, and the degree 
of its dependence for its financial support on the agency.
    Funds appropriated or otherwise made available under title II of 
this Act should be made available to private and voluntary organizations 
at a level which is at least equivalent to the level provided in fiscal 
year 1995.

                    international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses for international disaster relief, 
rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, $165,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-9]]

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster rehabilitation and 
reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
to support transition to democracy and to long-term development of 
countries in crisis: Provided, That such support may include assistance 
to develop, strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions and 
processes, revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the peaceful 
resolution of conflict: Provided further, That the United States Agency 
for International Development shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 5 days prior to beginning a new program of 
assistance.

         micro and small enterprise development program account

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,500,000, as 
authorized by section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided, That such costs shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That guarantees of 
loans made under this heading in support of microenterprise activities 
may guarantee up to 70 percent of the principal amount of any such loans 
notwithstanding section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. In 
addition, for administrative expenses to carry out programs under this 
heading, $500,000, all of which may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading shall remain available until September 30, 2002.

                   development credit program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees, $1,500,000, as 
authorized by section 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided, That such funds shall be made available only for urban and 
environmental programs: Provided further, That for the cost of direct 
loans and loan guarantees, up to $5,000,000 of funds appropriated by 
this Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'', may be 
transferred to and merged with funds appropriated under this heading to 
be made available for the purposes of part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961: Provided further, That such costs shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to general provisions 
applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 of H.R. 1486 as 
reported by the House Committee on International Relations on May 9, 
1997, shall be applicable to direct loans and loan guarantees provided 
under this heading. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry 
out credit programs administered by the Agency for International 
Development, $4,000,000, all of which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 2002.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-10]]

      payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the ``Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
Fund'', as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 1980, $44,489,000.

     operating expenses of the agency for international development

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$520,000,000: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available to finance the construction (including 
architect and engineering services), purchase, or long term lease of 
offices for use by the Agency for International Development, unless the 
Administrator has identified such proposed construction (including 
architect and engineering services), purchase, or long term lease of 
offices in a report submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at 
least 15 days prior to the obligation of these funds for such purposes: 
Provided further, That the previous proviso shall not apply where the 
total cost of construction (including architect and engineering 
services), purchase, or long term lease of offices does not exceed 
$1,000,000.

operating expenses of the agency for international development office of 
                            inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667, 
$27,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, which sum 
shall be available for the Office of the Inspector General of the Agency 
for International Development.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                          economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II, $2,295,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $840,000,000 shall be available only for Israel, which sum shall be 
available on a grant basis as a cash transfer and shall be disbursed 
within 30 days of the enactment of this Act or by October 31, 2000, 
whichever is later: Provided further, That not less than $695,000,000 
shall be available only for Egypt, which sum shall be provided on a 
grant basis, and of which sum cash transfer assistance shall be provided 
with the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic 
reforms which are additional to those which were undertaken in previous 
fiscal years, and of which not less than $200,000,000 shall be provided 
as Commodity Import Program assistance: Provided further, That in 
exercising the authority to provide cash transfer assistance for Israel, 
the President shall ensure that the level of such assistance does not 
cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary exports from 
the United States to such country and that Israel enters into a side 
letter agreement in an amount proportional to the fiscal year 1999 
agreement: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $150,000,000 should be made available for 
assistance for Jordan: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-11]]

this heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for East Timor of which up to $1,000,000 may be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for Operating Expenses of the 
Agency for International Development: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, in addition to funds otherwise 
made available for Indonesia, not less than $5,000,000 should be made 
available for economic rehabilitation and related activities in Aceh, 
Indonesia: Provided further, That funds made available in the previous 
proviso may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
Transition Initiatives: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be obligated for regional or 
global programs, except as provided through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
of the funds made available under this heading not less than $12,000,000 
should be made available for Mongolia: Provided further, That up to 
$10,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be used, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, to provide assistance to the 
National Democratic Alliance of Sudan to strengthen its ability to 
protect civilians from attacks, slave raids, and aerial bombardment by 
the Sudanese Government forces and its militia allies, and the provision 
of such funds shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That in the previous 
proviso, the term ``assistance'' includes non-lethal, non-food aid such 
as blankets, medicine, fuel, mobile clinics, water drilling equipment, 
communications equipment to notify civilians of aerial bombardment, non-
military vehicles, tents, and shoes.

                     international fund for ireland

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $25,000,000, which shall 
be available for the United States contribution to the International 
Fund for Ireland and shall be made available in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986 (Public Law 
99-415): Provided, That such amount shall be expended at the minimum 
rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and activities: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

           assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, $600,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for assistance and for related programs for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for the Baltic States: Provided further, That funds made 
available for assistance for Kosova from funds appropriated under this 
heading and under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' shall not exceed 
15 percent of the total resources pledged by all donors for calendar 
year 2001 for assistance for Kosova as of March 31, 2001: Provided 
further, That of the funds

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-12]]

made available under this heading for Kosova, not less than $1,300,000 
should be made available to support the National Albanian American 
Council's training program for Kosovar women: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available under this Act for assistance for 
Kosova shall be made available for large scale physical infrastructure 
reconstruction: Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading and the headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not to exceed $80,000,000 
shall be made available for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
    (b) Funds appropriated under this heading or in prior appropriations 
Acts that are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund may be 
deposited by such Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the Fund's 
disbursement of such funds for program purposes. The Fund may retain for 
such program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without 
returning such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without 
further appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for 
Enterprise Funds shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make 
timely payment for projects and activities.
    (c) Funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained in 
that Act for the use of economic assistance.
    (d) None of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for new housing construction or repair or reconstruction of 
existing housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless directly related to 
the efforts of United States troops to promote peace in said country.
    (e) With regard to funds appropriated under this heading for the 
economic revitalization program in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and local 
currencies generated by such funds (including the conversion of funds 
appropriated under this heading into currency used by Bosnia and 
Herzegovina as local currency and local currency returned or repaid 
under such program) the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans prior to 
the obligation and expenditure of funds for such purposes, and prior to 
the use of funds that have been returned or repaid to any lending 
facility or grantee.
    (f ) The provisions of section 532 of this Act shall apply to funds 
made available under subsection (e) and to funds appropriated under this 
heading: Provided, That notwithstanding any provision of this or any 
other Act, including provisions in this subsection regarding the 
application of section 532 of this Act, local currencies generated by, 
or converted from, funds appropriated by this Act and by previous 
appropriations Acts and made available for the economic revitalization 
program in Bosnia may be used in Eastern Europe and the Baltic States to 
carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the 
Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989.
    (g) The President is authorized to withhold funds appropriated under 
this heading made available for economic revitalization programs in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, if he determines and certifies to the Committees 
on Appropriations that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not 
complied with article III of annex 1-A of the General Framework 
Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the withdrawal 
of foreign forces, and that

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-13]]

intelligence cooperation on training, investigations, and related 
activities between Iranian officials and Bosnian officials has not been 
terminated.

    assistance for the independent states of the former soviet union

    (a) For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 
11 and 12 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the 
FREEDOM Support Act, for assistance for the Independent States of the 
former Soviet Union and for related programs, $810,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That the provisions of 
such chapters shall apply to funds appropriated by this paragraph: 
Provided further, That of the funds made available for the Southern 
Caucasus region, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 15 percent 
may be used for confidence-building measures and other activities in 
furtherance of the peaceful resolution of the regional conflicts, 
especially those in the vicinity of Abkhazia and Nagorno-Karabagh: 
Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading 
not less than $20,000,000 shall be made available solely for the Russian 
Far East: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,500,000 should be available only to meet the 
health and other assistance needs of victims of trafficking in persons.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$170,000,000 should be made available for assistance for Ukraine: 
Provided, That of this amount, not less than $25,000,000 should be made 
available for nuclear reactor safety initiatives, and not less than 
$5,000,000 should be made available for the Ukranian Land and Resource 
Management Center.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$92,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Georgia of which 
not less than $25,000,000 should be made available to support Border 
Security Guard and export control initiatives.
    (d) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$90,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Armenia.
    (e) Section 907 of the FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of Public 
        Law 104-201;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his or 
        her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

    (f ) Not more than 25 percent of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for assistance for any country in the 
region. Activities authorized under title V (nonproliferation

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-14]]

and disarmament programs and activities) of the FREEDOM Support Act 
shall not be counted against the 25 percent limitation.
    (g) Of the funds made available under this heading for nuclear 
safety activities, not to exceed 8 percent of the funds provided for any 
single project may be used to pay for management costs incurred by a 
United States agency or national lab in administering said project.
    (h)(1) Of the funds appropriated under this heading that are 
allocated for assistance for the Government of the Russian Federation, 
60 percent shall be withheld from obligation until the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the Government of the Russian Federation--
            (A) has terminated implementation of arrangements to provide 
        Iran with technical expertise, training, technology, or 
        equipment necessary to develop a nuclear reactor, related 
        nuclear research facilities or programs, or ballistic missile 
        capability;
            (B) is cooperating with international efforts to investigate 
        allegations of war crimes and atrocities in Chechnya;
            (C) is providing full access to international non-government 
        organizations providing humanitarian relief to refugees and 
        internally displaced persons in Chechnya; and
            (D) is in compliance with article V of the Treaty on 
        Conventional Armed Forces in Europe regarding forces deployed in 
        the flank zone in and around Chechyna.

    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
            (A) assistance to combat infectious diseases; and
            (B) activities authorized under title V (Nonproliferation 
        and Disarmament Programs and Activities) of the FREEDOM Support 
        Act.

    (i) Of the funds appropriated under this heading for assistance for 
Russia, and the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', not less 
than $10,000,000 shall be made available to non-government organizations 
providing humanitarian relief in Chechyna and Ingushetia.
    ( j) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$45,000,000 shall be made available, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, for assistance for child survival, 
environmental health, and to combat infectious diseases, and for related 
activities.

                           Independent Agency

                               peace corps

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (75 Stat. 612), $265,000,000, including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for use 
outside of the United States: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for abortions: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-15]]

                           Department of State

           international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $325,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That any funds made available under this heading for 
anti-crime programs and activities shall be made available subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2001, the Department of State 
may also use the authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, without regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property 
from an agency of the United States Government for the purpose of 
providing it to a foreign country under chapter 8 of part I of that Act 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to enable the 
Secretary of State to provide, as authorized by law, a contribution to 
the International Committee of the Red Cross, assistance to refugees, 
including contributions to the International Organization for Migration 
and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses of 
personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 5, 
United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$700,000,000, which shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not more than $14,500,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
to support activities and programs conducted by the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees shall be made available after reporting at 
least 5 days in advance to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the reporting requirement contained in the previous 
proviso may be waived for any such obligation if failure to waive this 
requirement would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: 
Provided further, That in case of any such waiver, a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early as practicable, 
but in no event later than 5 days after such obligation: Provided 
further, That not less than $60,000,000 of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be made available for refugees from the former 
Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and other refugees resettling in Israel.

      united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 260(c)), $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are 
appropriated notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 2(c)(2) 
of the Act which would limit the amount of funds which could be 
appropriated for this purpose.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-16]]

     nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism and 
related programs and activities, $311,600,000, to carry out the 
provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
for anti-terrorism assistance, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, 
section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act or the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 for demining activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, 
the destruction of small arms, and related activities, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, including activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations, section 301 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a voluntary contribution to the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and a voluntary contribution 
to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO), and for 
a United States contribution to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban 
Treaty Preparatory Commission: Provided, That the Secretary of State 
shall inform the Committees on Appropriations at least 20 days prior to 
the obligation of funds for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty 
Preparatory Commission: Provided further, That of this amount not to 
exceed $15,000,000, to remain available until expended, may be made 
available for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation and disarmament: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the United 
States to do so: Provided further, That such funds shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for the International Atomic Energy Agency only if the 
Secretary of State determines (and so reports to the Congress) that 
Israel is not being denied its right to participate in the activities of 
that Agency: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, $40,000,000 should be made available for demining, clearance of 
unexploded ordnance, and related activities: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available for demining and related activities, not to 
exceed $500,000, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used for administrative expenses related to the 
operation and management of the demining program.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to international affairs 
technical assistance activities), $6,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall be available nowithstanding any other provision of 
law.

                           debt restructuring

    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan guarantees, as

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-17]]

the President may determine, for which funds have been appropriated or 
otherwise made available for programs within the International Affairs 
Budget Function 150, including the cost of selling, reducing, or 
canceling amounts owed to the United States as a result of concessional 
loans made to eligible countries, pursuant to parts IV and V of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of modifying concessional credit 
agreements with least developed countries, as authorized under section 
411 of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as 
amended, and concessional loans, guarantees and credit agreements, as 
authorized under section 572 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law 
100-461), and of canceling amounts owed, as a result of loans or 
guarantees made pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, by 
countries that are eligible for debt reduction pursuant to title V of 
H.R. 3425 as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-
113, $238,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
this amount, not less than $13,000,000 shall be made available to carry 
out the provisions of part V of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this heading in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Treasury to pay to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund 
administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development amounts for the benefit of countries that are eligible for 
debt reduction pursuant to title V of H.R. 3425 as enacted into law by 
section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-113: Provided further, That amounts 
paid to the HIPC Trust Fund may be used only to fund debt reduction 
under the enhanced HIPC initiative by--
            (1) the Inter-American Development Bank;
            (2) the African Development Fund;
            (3) the African Development Bank; and
            (4) the Central American Bank for Economic Integration:

Provided further, That funds may not be paid to the HIPC Trust Fund for 
the benefit of any country if the Secretary of State has credible 
evidence that the government of such country is engaged in a consistent 
pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights 
or in military or civil conflict that undermines its ability to develop 
and implement measures to alleviate poverty and to devote adequate human 
and financial resources to that end: Provided further, That on the basis 
of final appropriations, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations concerning which countries and 
international financial institutions are expected to benefit from a 
United States contribution to the HIPC Trust Fund during the fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall inform 
the Committees on Appropriations not less than 15 days in advance of the 
signature of an agreement by the United States to make payments to the 
HIPC Trust Fund of amounts for such countries and institutions: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Treasury may disburse funds 
designated for debt reduction through the HIPC Trust Fund only for the 
benefit of countries that--
            (a) have committed, for a period of 24 months, not to accept 
        new market-rate loans from the international financial 
        institution receiving debt repayment as a result of such 
        disbursement, other than loans made by such institution to 
        export-oriented commercial projects that generate foreign

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-18]]

        exchange which are generally referred to as ``enclave'' loans; 
        and
            (b) have documented and demonstrated their commitment to 
        redirect their budgetary resources from international debt 
        repayments to programs to alleviate poverty and promote economic 
        growth that are additional to or expand upon those previously 
        available for such purposes:

Provided further, That any limitation of subsection (e) of section 411 
of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 shall 
not apply to funds appropriated under this heading: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading in this or any 
other appropriations Acts shall be made available for Sudan or Burma 
unless the Secretary of the Treasury determines and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations that a democratically elected government 
has taken office: Provided further, That the authority provided by 
section 572 of Public Law 100-461 may be exercised only with respect to 
countries that are eligible to borrow from the International Development 
Association, but not from the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-only'' countries.

                     TITLE III--MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

              international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $55,000,000, of which up to 
$1,000,000 may remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
civilian personnel for whom military education and training may be 
provided under this heading may include civilians who are not members of 
a government whose participation would contribute to improved civil-
military relations, civilian control of the military, or respect for 
human rights: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading for grant financed military education and training for Indonesia 
and Guatemala may only be available for expanded international military 
education and training and funds made available for Indonesia and 
Guatemala may only be provided through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                   foreign military financing program

    For expenses necessary for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$3,545,000,000: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $1,980,000,000 shall be available for grants only 
for Israel, and not less than $1,300,000,000 shall be made available for 
grants only for Egypt: Provided further, That the funds appropriated by 
this paragraph for Israel shall be disbursed within 30 days of the 
enactment of this Act or by October 31, 2000, whichever is later: 
Provided further, That to the extent that the Government of Israel 
requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for 
Israel by this paragraph shall, as agreed by Israel and the United 
States, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which not less 
than $520,000,000 shall be available for the procurement in Israel of 
defense articles

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-19]]

and defense services, including research and development: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated by this paragraph, not less than 
$75,000,000 should be available for assistance for Jordan: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated by this paragraph, not less than 
$3,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Malta: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated by this paragraph, not less than 
$8,500,000 shall be made available for assistance for Tunisia: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2001, the President is authorized to, 
and shall, direct the draw-downs of defense articles from the stocks of 
the Department of Defense, defense services of the Department of 
Defense, and military education and training of an aggregate value of 
not less than $5,000,000 under the authority of this proviso for Tunisia 
for the purposes of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
any amount so directed shall count toward meeting the earmark in the 
preceding proviso: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated by 
this paragraph, not less than $8,000,000 shall be made available for 
Georgia: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2001, the President 
is authorized to, and shall, direct the draw-downs of defense articles 
from the stocks of the Department of Defense, defense services of the 
Department of Defense, and military education and training of an 
aggregate value of not less than $4,000,000 under the authority of this 
proviso for Georgia for the purposes of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 and any amount so directed shall count toward 
meeting the earmark in the preceding proviso: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be nonrepayable 
notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act: Provided further, That funds made available under this paragraph 
shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph 
(5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a).
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurements has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurements may be financed with such funds: Provided, 
That all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of section 515 of 
this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for assistance for Sudan and Liberia: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for demining, the 
clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities, and may 
include activities implemented through nongovernmental and international 
organizations: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available for assistance for Guatemala: 
Provided further, That only those countries for which assistance was 
justified for the ``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in the 
fiscal year 1989 congressional presentation for security assistance 
programs may utilize funds made available under this heading for 
procurement of defense articles, defense services or design and 
construction services that are not sold by the United States Government 
under the Arms Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be expended at the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-20]]

minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for defense articles and 
services: Provided further, That not more than $33,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be obligated for necessary expenses, 
including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only 
for use outside of the United States, for the general costs of 
administering military assistance and sales: Provided further, That not 
more than $340,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) 
of the Arms Export Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by 
the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2001 pursuant to section 
43(b) of the Arms Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That foreign military 
financing program funds estimated to be outlayed for Egypt during fiscal 
year 2001 shall be transferred to an interest bearing account for Egypt 
in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York within 30 days of enactment of 
this Act or by October 31, 2000, whichever is later: Provided further, 
That the Committees on Appropriations shall be informed at least 10 days 
prior to the obligation of any interest accrued by the account 
established by the previous proviso.

                         peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $127,000,000: Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated or expended 
except as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

               TITLE IV--MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   funds appropriated to the president

                  international financial institutions

                       global environment facility

    For the United States contribution for the Global Environment 
Facility, $108,000,000, to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility, by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, to remain available until expended.

        contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $775,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall: (1) accord 
high priority to encouraging the International Development Association 
to establish and implement a policy to provide new assistance on grant 
terms to enhanced HIPC Initiative countries that have reached the 
completion point; and (2) submit a report to the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, the President of the Senate, and the Committees on 
Appropriations no later than June 30, 2001, on the progress reached in 
achieving the objective set forth in clause (1): Provided further, That 
in negotiating United States participation in the next replenishment of 
the International Development Association, the Secretary of the Treasury

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-21]]

shall accord high priority to providing the International Development 
Association with the policy flexibility to provide new grant assistance 
to countries eligible for debt reduction under the enhanced HIPC 
Initiative.

      contribution to the multilateral investment guarantee agency

    For payment to the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $10,000,000, for the United States paid-in 
share of the increase in capital stock, to remain available until 
expended.

                     limitation on callable capital

    The United States Governor of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee 
Agency may subscribe without fiscal year limitation for the callable 
capital portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an 
amount not to exceed $50,000,000.

        contribution to the inter-american investment corporation

    For payment to the Inter-American Investment Corporation, by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $25,000,000, for the United States share of 
the increase in subscriptions to capital stock, to remain available 
until expended.

contribution to the enterprise for the americas multilateral investment 
                                  fund

    For payment to the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury, for the United States 
contribution to the fund, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the Asian Development Fund, as 
authorized by the Asian Development Bank Act, as amended, $72,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $6,100,000, for the United States paid-in share of the 
increase in capital stock, to remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation for the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $97,548,522.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to the increase in resources of the African Development Fund, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-22]]

  contribution to the european bank for reconstruction and development

    For payment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $35,778,717, for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increase in capital stock, to remain 
available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the 
callable capital portion of the United States share of such capital 
stock in an amount not to exceed $123,237,803.

   contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For the United States contribution by the Secretary of the Treasury 
to increase the resources of the International Fund for Agricultural 
Development, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                International Organizations and Programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $186,000,000: 
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for the United Nations Fund for Science and 
Technology: Provided further, That not less than $5,000,000 should be 
made available to the World Food Program: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available to the 
Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization (KEDO) or the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

              obligations during last month of availability

    Sec. 501. Except for the appropriations entitled ``International 
Disaster Assistance'', and ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', not more than 15 percent of any 
appropriation item made available by this Act shall be obligated during 
the last month of availability.

      prohibition of bilateral funding for international financial 
                              institutions

    Sec. 502. Notwithstanding section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, none of the funds contained in title II of this Act may be used 
to carry out the provisions of section 209(d) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated by title II 
of this Act may be transferred by the Agency for International 
Development directly to an international financial institution (as 
defined in section 533 of this Act) for the purpose of repaying a 
foreign country's loan obligations to such institution.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-23]]

                    limitation on residence expenses

    Sec. 503. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $126,500 shall be for official residence 
expenses of the Agency for International Development during the current 
fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to assure 
that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars.

                         limitation on expenses

    Sec. 504. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $5,000 shall be for entertainment expenses of 
the Agency for International Development during the current fiscal year.

                limitation on representational allowances

    Sec. 505. Of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant to 
this Act, not to exceed $95,000 shall be available for representation 
allowances for the Agency for International Development during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That appropriate steps shall be taken to 
assure that, to the maximum extent possible, United States-owned foreign 
currencies are utilized in lieu of dollars: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available by this Act for general costs of administering 
military assistance and sales under the heading ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
representation allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``International Military 
Education and Training'', not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
entertainment allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available by this Act for the Inter-American Foundation, not to exceed 
$2,000 shall be available for entertainment and representation 
allowances: Provided further, That of the funds made available by this 
Act for the Peace Corps, not to exceed a total of $4,000 shall be 
available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available by this Act under the heading ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', not to exceed $2,000 shall be available for 
representation and entertainment allowances.

                 prohibition on financing nuclear goods

    Sec. 506. None of the funds appropriated or made available (other 
than funds for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'') pursuant to this Act, for carrying out the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, may be used, except for purposes of nuclear 
safety, to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 507. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Iran, 
Sudan, or Syria: Provided, That for purposes of this section, the 
prohibition on obligations or expenditures shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-24]]

include direct loans, credits, insurance and guarantees of the Export-
Import Bank or its agents.

                             military coups

    Sec. 508. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or expended to finance directly 
any assistance to any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by decree or military coup: Provided, That assistance may be 
resumed to such country if the President determines and reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that subsequent to the termination of 
assistance a democratically elected government has taken office.

                       transfers between accounts

    Sec. 509. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated under an appropriation account to which they were not 
appropriated, except for transfers specifically provided for in this 
Act, unless the President, prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.

                   deobligation/reobligation authority

    Sec. 510. Obligated balances of funds appropriated to carry out 
section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act as of the end of the fiscal 
year immediately preceding the current fiscal year are, if deobligated, 
hereby continued available during the current fiscal year for the same 
purpose under any authority applicable to such appropriations under this 
Act: Provided, That the authority of this subsection may not be used in 
fiscal year 2001.

                          availability of funds

    Sec. 511. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current 
fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act: Provided, That 
funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1, 8, 11, and 12 of part 
I, section 667, and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, and funds provided under the heading ``Assistance 
for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'', shall remain available until 
expended if such funds are initially obligated before the expiration of 
their respective periods of availability contained in this Act: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any 
funds made available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 
4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated 
or obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of 
payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the report required by section 
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall designate for each 
country, to the extent known at the time of submission of such report, 
those funds allocated for cash disbursement for balance of payment and 
economic policy reform purposes.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-25]]

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 512. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used to furnish assistance to any country which is in default during 
a period in excess of 1 calendar year in payment to the United States of 
principal or interest on any loan made to the government of such country 
by the United States pursuant to a program for which funds are 
appropriated under this Act: Provided, That this section and section 
620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds 
made available for any narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, 
Bolivia, and Peru authorized by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or 
the Arms Export Control Act.

                           commerce and trade

    Sec. 513. (a) None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to this Act for direct assistance and none of the funds 
otherwise made available pursuant to this Act to the Export-Import Bank 
and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation shall be obligated or 
expended to finance any loan, any assistance or any other financial 
commitments for establishing or expanding production of any commodity 
for export by any country other than the United States, if the commodity 
is likely to be in surplus on world markets at the time the resulting 
productive capacity is expected to become operative and if the 
assistance will cause substantial injury to United States producers of 
the same, similar, or competing commodity: Provided, That such 
prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import Bank if in the judgment 
of its Board of Directors the benefits to industry and employment in the 
United States are likely to outweigh the injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity, and the Chairman 
of the Board so notifies the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act to carry 
out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be 
available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, variety 
improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or 
training in connection with the growth or production in a foreign 
country of an agricultural commodity for export which would compete with 
a similar commodity grown or produced in the United States: Provided, 
That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact in the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States; or
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        American producers.

                           surplus commodities

    Sec. 514. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, the International Development Association, the 
International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, 
the International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-
American Investment Corporation, the North American Development Bank, 
the European Bank

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-26]]

for Reconstruction and Development, the African Development Bank, and 
the African Development Fund to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to oppose any assistance by these institutions, using funds 
appropriated or made available pursuant to this Act, for the production 
or extraction of any commodity or mineral for export, if it is in 
surplus on world markets and if the assistance will cause substantial 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity.

                        notification requirements

    Sec. 515. (a) For the purposes of providing the executive branch 
with the necessary administrative flexibility, none of the funds made 
available under this Act for ``Child Survival and Disease Programs 
Fund'', ``Development Assistance'', ``International Organizations and 
Programs'', ``Trade and Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics 
Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the 
Baltic States'', ``Assistance for the Independent States of the Former 
Soviet Union'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development'', 
``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International Development Office 
of Inspector General'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
Related Programs'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
``International Military Education and Training'', ``Peace Corps'', and 
``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', shall be available for obligation 
for activities, programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, 
countries, or other operations not justified or in excess of the amount 
justified to the Appropriations Committees for obligation under any of 
these specific headings unless the Appropriations Committees of both 
Houses of Congress are previously notified 15 days in advance: Provided, 
That the President shall not enter into any commitment of funds 
appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act for the provision of major defense equipment, other than 
conventional ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be 
aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified 
to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the quantities justified to 
Congress unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in 
advance of such commitment: Provided further, That this section shall 
not apply to any reprogramming for an activity, program, or project 
under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of less 
than 10 percent of the amount previously justified to the Congress for 
obligation for such activity, program, or project for the current fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the requirements of this section or any 
similar provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if failure 
to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare: 
Provided further, That in case of any such waiver, notification to the 
Congress, or the appropriate congressional committees, shall be provided 
as early as practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after taking 
the action to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the 
context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided 
further, That any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall 
contain an explanation of the emergency circumstances.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-27]]

    (b) Drawdowns made pursuant to section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 516. Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under this Act or any 
previously enacted Act making appropriations for foreign operations, 
export financing, and related programs, which are returned or not made 
available for organizations and programs because of the implementation 
of section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2002.

              independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 517. (a) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
``Assistance for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' 
shall be made available for assistance for a government of an 
Independent State of the former Soviet Union--
            (1) unless that government is making progress in 
        implementing comprehensive economic reforms based on market 
        principles, private ownership, respect for commercial contracts, 
        and equitable treatment of foreign private investment; and
            (2) if that government applies or transfers United States 
        assistance to any entity for the purpose of expropriating or 
        seizing ownership or control of assets, investments, or 
        ventures.

Assistance may be furnished without regard to this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national interest.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be made 
available for assistance for a government of an Independent State of the 
former Soviet Union if that government directs any action in violation 
of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any other 
Independent State of the former Soviet Union, such as those violations 
included in the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That such funds may be 
made available without regard to the restriction in this subsection if 
the President determines that to do so is in the national security 
interest of the United States.
    (c) None of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' shall be made 
available for any state to enhance its military capability: Provided, 
That this restriction does not apply to demilitarization, demining or 
nonproliferation programs.
    (d) Funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for the 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union'' for the Russian 
Federation, Armenia, Georgia, and Ukraine shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Funds made available in this Act for assistance for the 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union shall be subject to the 
provisions of section 117 (relating to environment and natural 
resources) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (f ) Funds appropriated in this or prior appropriations Acts that 
are or have been made available for an Enterprise Fund

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-28]]

in the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union may be deposited by 
such Fund in interest-bearing accounts prior to the disbursement of such 
funds by the Fund for program purposes. The Fund may retain for such 
program purposes any interest earned on such deposits without returning 
such interest to the Treasury of the United States and without further 
appropriation by the Congress. Funds made available for Enterprise Funds 
shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment 
for projects and activities.
    (g) In issuing new task orders, entering into contracts, or making 
grants, with funds appropriated in this Act or prior appropriations Acts 
under the heading ``Assistance for the Independent States of the Former 
Soviet Union'' and under comparable headings in prior appropriations 
Acts, for projects or activities that have as one of their primary 
purposes the fostering of private sector development, the Coordinator 
for United States Assistance to the New Independent States and the 
implementing agency shall encourage the participation of and give 
significant weight to contractors and grantees who propose investing a 
significant amount of their own resources (including volunteer services 
and in-kind contributions) in such projects and activities.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 518. None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide any 
financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None of the 
funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any biomedical research 
which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, or the performance of, 
abortions or involuntary sterilization as a means of family planning. 
None of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be obligated or expended for any 
country or organization if the President certifies that the use of these 
funds by any such country or organization would violate any of the above 
provisions related to abortions and involuntary sterilizations: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to lobby for or against abortion.

                  export financing transfer authorities

    Sec. 519. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation other than 
for administrative expenses made available for fiscal year 2001, for 
programs under title I of this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations for use for any of the purposes, programs, and activities 
for which the funds in such receiving account may be used, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 25 percent by any such transfer: Provided, That 
the exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-29]]

                    special notification requirements

    Sec. 520. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for Colombia, Haiti, Liberia, Serbia, Sudan, 
Ethiopia, Eritrea, Zimbabwe, Pakistan, or the Democratic Republic of 
Congo except as provided through the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 521. For the purpose of this Act, ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall be defined at the appropriations Act account level and 
shall include all appropriations and authorizations Acts earmarks, 
ceilings, and limitations with the exception that for the following 
accounts: Economic Support Fund and Foreign Military Financing Program, 
``program, project, and activity'' shall also be considered to include 
country, regional, and central program level funding within each such 
account; for the development assistance accounts of the Agency for 
International Development ``program, project, and activity'' shall also 
be considered to include central program level funding, either as: (1) 
justified to the Congress; or (2) allocated by the executive branch in 
accordance with a report, to be provided to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required 
by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

            child survival and disease prevention activities

    Sec. 522. Up to $16,000,000 of the funds made available by this Act 
for assistance under the heading ``Child Survival and Disease Programs 
Fund'', may be used to reimburse United States Government agencies, 
agencies of State governments, institutions of higher learning, and 
private and voluntary organizations for the full cost of individuals 
(including for the personal services of such individuals) detailed or 
assigned to, or contracted by, as the case may be, the Agency for 
International Development for the purpose of carrying out child 
survival, basic education, and infectious disease activities: Provided, 
That up to $1,500,000 of the funds made available by this Act for 
assistance under the heading ``Development Assistance'' may be used to 
reimburse such agencies, institutions, and organizations for such costs 
of such individuals carrying out other development assistance 
activities: Provided further, That funds appropriated by this Act that 
are made available for child survival activities or disease programs 
including activities relating to research on, and the prevention, 
treatment and control of, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome may be 
made available notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under title II of this Act may be made available pursuant 
to section 301 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 if a primary 
purpose of the assistance is for child survival and related programs.

        prohibition against indirect funding to certain countries

    Sec. 523. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act shall be obligated to finance indirectly any 
assistance or reparations to Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Iran, Syria, North 
Korea, or the People's Republic of China, unless the President

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-30]]

of the United States certifies that the withholding of these funds is 
contrary to the national interest of the United States.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 524. Prior to providing excess Department of Defense articles 
in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
to the same extent and under the same conditions as are other committees 
pursuant to subsection (f ) of that section: Provided, That before 
issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles under the Arms 
Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of such Committees: Provided further, That such Committees 
shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost of such defense 
articles.

                        authorization requirement

    Sec. 525. Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds appropriated 
under the headings ``International Military Education and Training'' and 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'', may be obligated and expended 
notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.

                           democracy in china

    Sec. 526. Notwithstanding any other provision of law that restricts 
assistance to foreign countries, funds appropriated by this Act for 
``Economic Support Fund'' may be made available to provide general 
support and grants for nongovernmental organizations located outside the 
People's Republic of China that have as their primary purpose fostering 
democracy in that country, and for activities of nongovernmental 
organizations located outside the People's Republic of China to foster 
rule of law and democracy in that country: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available for activities to foster democracy in the People's 
Republic of China may be made available for assistance to the government 
of that country, except that funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for the 
National Endowment for Democracy or its grantees may be made available 
for activities to foster democracy in that country notwithstanding this 
proviso and any other provision of law: Provided further, That upon 
enactment of this Act funds appropriated by this or any prior Acts 
making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs, that are provided to the National Endowment for 
Democracy shall be provided notwithstanding any other provision of law 
or regulation: Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to 
the authority of this section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, not to exceed $2,000,000 
may be made available to nongovernmental organizations located outside 
the People's Republic of China to support activities which preserve 
cultural traditions and promote sustainable development and 
environmental

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-31]]

conservation in Tibetan communities in that country: Provided further, 
That the final proviso in section 526 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted 
into law by section 1000(a)(2) of Public Law 106-113) is amended by 
striking ``Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Center for Human Rights'' and 
inserting ``Jamestown Foundation''.

       prohibition on bilateral assistance to terrorist countries

    Sec. 527. (a) Funds appropriated for bilateral assistance under any 
heading of this Act and funds appropriated under any such heading in a 
provision of law enacted prior to the enactment of this Act, shall not 
be made available to any country which the President determines--
            (1) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or 
        group which has committed an act of international terrorism; or
            (2) otherwise supports international terrorism.

    (b) The President may waive the application of subsection (a) to a 
country if the President determines that national security or 
humanitarian reasons justify such waiver. The President shall publish 
each waiver in the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the 
waiver takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in accordance 
with the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

         report on implementation of supplemental appropriations

    Sec. 528. (a) Beginning not later than January 1, 2001, the 
Secretary of State shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations providing information on the use of funds appropriated in 
title VI of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 
1000(a)(2) of Public Law 106-113). Each report shall include the 
following--
            (1) the current and projected status of obligations and 
        expenditures by appropriations account, by country, and by 
        program, project, and activity;
            (2) the contractors and subcontractors engaged in activities 
        funded from appropriations contained in title VI; and
            (3) the procedures and processes under which decisions have 
        been or will be made on which programs, projects, and activities 
        are funded through appropriations contained in title VI.

    (b) For each report required by this section, a classified annex may 
be submitted if deemed necessary and appropriate.
    (c) The last quarterly report required by this section shall be 
provided to the Committees on Appropriations by January 1, 2002.

                          competitive insurance

    Sec. 529. All Agency for International Development contracts and 
solicitations, and subcontracts entered into under such contracts, shall 
include a clause requiring that United States insurance companies have a 
fair opportunity to bid for insurance when such insurance is necessary 
or appropriate.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-32]]

                                  peru

    Sec. 530. (a) Determination.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter during fiscal 
year 2001, the Secretary of State shall determine and report to the 
Committees on Appropriations whether the Government of Peru has made 
substantial progress in creating the conditions for free and fair 
elections, and in respecting human rights, the rule of law, the 
independence and constitutional role of the judiciary and national 
congress, and freedom of expression and independent media.
    (b) Prohibition.--If the Secretary determines and reports pursuant 
to subsection (a) that the Government of Peru has not made substantial 
progress, no funds appropriated by this Act may be made available for 
assistance for the Central Government of Peru.
    (c) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less than $2,000,000 
should be made available to support the work of nongovernmental 
organizations and the Organization of American States in promoting free 
and fair elections, democratic institutions, and human rights in Peru.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 531. In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in economic assistance activities under 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including endowments, debt-for-
development and debt-for-nature exchanges, a nongovernmental 
organization which is a grantee or contractor of the Agency for 
International Development may place in interest bearing accounts funds 
made available under this Act or prior Acts or local currencies which 
accrue to that organization as a result of economic assistance provided 
under title II of this Act and any interest earned on such investment 
shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance was provided to 
that organization.

                            separate accounts

    Sec. 532. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--(1) If 
assistance is furnished to the government of a foreign country under 
chapters 1 and 10 of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under agreements which result in the generation 
of local currencies of that country, the Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall--
            (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a separate 
        account established by that government;
            (B) enter into an agreement with that government which sets 
        forth--
                    (i) the amount of the local currencies to be 
                generated; and
                    (ii) the terms and conditions under which the 
                currencies so deposited may be utilized, consistent with 
                this section; and
            (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
        responsibilities of the Agency for International Development and 
        that government to monitor and account for deposits into and 
        disbursements from the separate account.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-33]]

    (2) Uses of Local Currencies.--As may be agreed upon with the 
foreign government, local currencies deposited in a separate account 
pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local currencies, 
shall be used only--
            (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
        part II (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                    (i) project and sector assistance activities; or
                    (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
            (B) for the administrative requirements of the United States 
        Government.

    (3) Programming Accountability.--The Agency for International 
Development shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent 
of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from 
the separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are used 
for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
    (4) Termination of Assistance Programs.--Upon termination of 
assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or chapter 4 of 
part II (as the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the 
government of that country and the United States Government.
    (5) Reporting Requirement.--The Administrator of the Agency for 
International Development shall report on an annual basis as part of the 
justification documents submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on 
the use of local currencies for the administrative requirements of the 
United States Government as authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), and such 
report shall include the amount of local currency (and United States 
dollar equivalent) used and/or to be used for such purpose in each 
applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--(1) If assistance is made 
available to the government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 
of part I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector assistance, that 
country shall be required to maintain such funds in a separate account 
and not commingle them with any other funds.
    (2) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Such funds may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law which are 
inconsistent with the nature of this assistance including provisions 
which are referenced in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee 
of Conference accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 
98-1159).
    (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any such 
cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the President shall 
submit a notification through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, which shall include a detailed description 
of how the funds proposed to be made available will be used, with a 
discussion of the United States interests that will be served by the 
assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the economic 
policy reforms that will be promoted by such assistance).
    (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be exempt 
from the requirements of subsection (b)(1) only through the notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-34]]

  compensation for united states executive directors to international 
                         financial institutions

    Sec. 533. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act may be made as 
payment to any international financial institution while the United 
States Executive Director to such institution is compensated by the 
institution at a rate which, together with whatever compensation such 
Director receives from the United States, is in excess of the rate 
provided for an individual occupying a position at level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or 
while any alternate United States Director to such institution is 
compensated by the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided 
for an individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``international financial 
institutions'' are: the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development 
Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the African Development Bank, the 
African Development Fund, the International Monetary Fund, the North 
American Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.

          compliance with united nations sanctions against iraq

    Sec. 534. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
pursuant to this Act to carry out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
(including title IV of chapter 2 of part I, relating to the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation) or the Arms Export Control Act may be 
used to provide assistance to any country that is not in compliance with 
the United Nations Security Council sanctions against Iraq unless the 
President determines and so certifies to the Congress that--
            (1) such assistance is in the national interest of the 
        United States;
            (2) such assistance will directly benefit the needy people 
        in that country; or
            (3) the assistance to be provided will be humanitarian 
        assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait.

  authorities for the peace corps, international fund for agricultural 
     development, inter-american foundation and african development 
                               foundation

    Sec. 535. (a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, shall not be construed to prohibit 
activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the 
Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development Foundation Act. 
The agency shall promptly report to the Committees on Appropriations 
whenever it is conducting activities or is proposing to conduct 
activities in a country for which assistance is prohibited.
    (b) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, limitations on the 
availability of funds for ``International Organizations and Programs'' 
in this or any other Act, including prior appropriations

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-35]]

Acts, shall not be construed to be applicable to the International Fund 
for Agricultural Development.

                   impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 536. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to provide--
            (a) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (b) assistance for the purpose of establishing or developing 
        in a foreign country any export processing zone or designated 
        area in which the tax, tariff, labor, environment, and safety 
        laws of that country do not apply, in part or in whole, to 
        activities carried out within that zone or area, unless the 
        President determines and certifies that such assistance is not 
        likely to cause a loss of jobs within the United States; or
            (c) assistance for any project or activity that contributes 
        to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights, 
        as defined in section 502(a)(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of 
        workers in the recipient country, including any designated zone 
        or area in that country: Provided, That in recognition that the 
        application of this subsection should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, the 
        provisions of this subsection shall not preclude assistance for 
        the informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture.

                          clean coal technology

    Sec. 537. (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The United States is the world leader in the development 
        of environmental technologies, particularly clean coal 
        technology.
            (2) Severe pollution problems affecting people in developing 
        countries, and the serious health problems that result from such 
        pollution, can be effectively addressed through the application 
        of United States technology.
            (3) During the next century, developing countries, 
        particularly countries in Asia such as China and India, will 
        dramatically increase their consumption of electricity, and low 
        quality coal will be a major source of fuel for power 
        generation.
            (4) Without the use of modern clean coal technology, the 
        resultant pollution will cause enormous health and environmental 
        problems leading to diminished economic growth in developing 
        countries and, thus, diminished United States exports to those 
        growing markets.

    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to 
promote the export of United States clean coal technology. In 
furtherance of that policy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
Treasury (acting through the United States executive directors to 
international financial institutions), the Secretary of Energy, and the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) should, as appropriate, vigorously promote

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-36]]

the use of United States clean coal technology in environmental and 
energy infrastructure programs, projects and activities. Programs, 
projects and activities for which the use of such technology should be 
considered include reconstruction assistance for the Balkans, activities 
carried out by the Global Environment Facility, and activities funded 
from USAID's Development Credit Authority.

                           special authorities

    Sec. 538. (a) Afghanistan, Lebanon, Montenegro, Victims of War, 
Displaced Children, and Displaced Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles 
I and II of this Act that are made available for Afghanistan, Lebanon, 
Montenegro, and for victims of war, displaced children, and displaced 
Burmese, may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law: Provided, That any such funds that are made available for Cambodia 
shall be subject to the provisions of section 531(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 and section 906 of the International Security and 
Development Cooperation Act of 1985.
    (b) Tropical Forestry and Biodiversity Conservation Activities.--
Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of sections 
103 through 106, and chapter 4 of part II, of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purpose of supporting tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation 
activities and, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, energy programs aimed at reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions: Provided, That such assistance shall be 
subject to sections 116, 502B, and 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.
    (c) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and title II of the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, may be used by the Agency 
for International Development to employ up to 25 personal services 
contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for the purpose of providing direct, interim support for new or 
expanded overseas programs and activities and managed by the agency 
until permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained: Provided, 
That not more than 10 of such contractors shall be assigned to any 
bureau or office: Provided further, That such funds appropriated to 
carry out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be made available for 
personal services contractors assigned only to the Office of Health and 
Nutrition; the Office of Procurement; the Bureau for Africa; the Bureau 
for Latin America and the Caribbean; and the Bureau for Asia and the 
Near East: Provided further, That such funds appropriated to carry out 
title II of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, may be made available only for personal services contractors 
assigned to the Office of Food for Peace.

    (d)(1) Waiver.--The President may waive the provisions of section 
1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President determines and certifies in 
writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President 
pro tempore of the Senate that it is important to the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (2) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
paragraph (1) shall be effective for no more than a period of

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-37]]

6 months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the 
enactment of this Act.

policy on terminating the arab league boycott of israel and normalizing 
                          relations with israel

    Sec. 539. It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League countries should immediately and 
        publicly renounce the primary boycott of Israel and the 
        secondary and tertiary boycott of American firms that have 
        commercial ties with Israel and should normalize their relations 
        with Israel;
            (2) the decision by the Arab League in 1997 to reinstate the 
        boycott against Israel was deeply troubling and disappointing;
            (3) the fact that only three Arab countries maintain full 
        diplomatic relations with Israel is also of deep concern;
            (4) the Arab League should immediately rescind its decision 
        on the boycott and its members should develop normal relations 
        with their neighbor Israel; and
            (5) the President should--
                    (A) take more concrete steps to encourage vigorously 
                Arab League countries to renounce publicly the primary 
                boycotts of Israel and the secondary and tertiary 
                boycotts of American firms that have commercial 
                relations with Israel and to normalize their relations 
                with Israel;
                    (B) take into consideration the participation of any 
                recipient country in the primary boycott of Israel and 
                the secondary and tertiary boycotts of American firms 
                that have commercial relations with Israel when 
                determining whether to sell weapons to said country;
                    (C) report to Congress annually on the specific 
                steps being taken by the United States and the progress 
                achieved to bring about a public renunciation of the 
                Arab primary boycott of Israel and the secondary and 
                tertiary boycotts of American firms that have commercial 
                relations with Israel and to expand the process of 
                normalizing ties between Arab League countries and 
                Israel; and
                    (D) encourage the allies and trading partners of the 
                United States to enact laws prohibiting businesses from 
                complying with the boycott and penalizing businesses 
                that do comply.

                  administration of justice activities

    Sec. 540. Of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act for ``Economic Support Fund'', assistance may be provided to 
strengthen the administration of justice in countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean and in other regions consistent with the provisions of 
section 534(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that 
programs to enhance protection of participants in judicial cases may be 
conducted notwithstanding section 660 of that Act. Funds made available 
pursuant to this section may be made available notwithstanding section 
534(c) and the second and third sentences of section 534(e) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-38]]

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 541. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
11, and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'': Provided, That the President 
shall take into consideration, in any case in which a restriction on 
assistance would be applicable but for this subsection, whether 
assistance in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations is in 
the national interest of the United States: Provided further, That 
before using the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in 
support of programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations under the regular 
notification procedures of those committees, including a description of 
the program to be assisted, the assistance to be provided, and the 
reasons for furnishing such assistance: Provided further, That nothing 
in this subsection shall be construed to alter any existing statutory 
prohibitions against abortion or involuntary sterilizations contained in 
this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2001, restrictions contained 
in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a country shall 
not be construed to restrict assistance under the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and made available 
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that violate internationally recognized 
        human rights.

                                earmarks

    Sec. 542. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act which are earmarked may 
be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account 
notwithstanding the earmark if compliance with the earmark is made 
impossible by operation of any provision of this or any other Act or, 
with respect to a country with which the United States has an agreement 
providing the United States with base rights or base access in that 
country, if the President determines that the recipient for which funds 
are earmarked has significantly reduced its military or economic 
cooperation with the United States since the enactment of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1991; however, before exercising the authority of this subsection with 
regard to a base rights or base access country which has significantly 
reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-39]]

the President shall consult with, and shall provide a written policy 
justification to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That any 
such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) In addition to the authority contained in subsection (a), the 
original period of availability of funds appropriated by this Act and 
administered by the Agency for International Development that are 
earmarked for particular programs or activities by this or any other Act 
shall be extended for an additional fiscal year if the Administrator of 
such agency determines and reports promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations that the termination of assistance to a country or a 
significant change in circumstances makes it unlikely that such 
earmarked funds can be obligated during the original period of 
availability: Provided, That such earmarked funds that are continued 
available for an additional fiscal year shall be obligated only for the 
purpose of such earmark.

                          ceilings and earmarks

    Sec. 543. Ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be 
applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made 
available by any subsequent Act unless such Act specifically so directs. 
Earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act 
shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 544. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act by the 
Congress: Provided, That not to exceed $750,000 may be made available to 
carry out the provisions of section 316 of Public Law 96-533.

            purchase of american-made equipment and products

    Sec. 545. (a) To the maximum extent possible, assistance provided 
under this Act should make full use of American resources, including 
commodities, products, and services.
    (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, all agriculture commodities, equipment and products 
purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (c) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (b) by the Congress.
    (d) The Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress annually 
on the efforts of the heads of each Federal agency and the United States 
directors of international financial institutions (as referenced in 
section 514) in complying with this sense of the Congress.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-40]]

            prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 546. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
the costs for participation of another country's delegation at 
international conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or 
international organizations.

                           consulting services

    Sec. 547. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order pursuant to existing law.

             private voluntary organizations--documentation

    Sec. 548. None of the funds appropriated or made available pursuant 
to this Act shall be available to a private voluntary organization which 
fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or record 
necessary to the auditing requirements of the Agency for International 
Development.

  prohibition on assistance to foreign governments that export lethal 
   military equipment to countries supporting international terrorism

    Sec. 549. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be available to any foreign government which 
provides lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
the Secretary of State has determined is a terrorist government for 
purposes of section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act. The 
prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign government 
shall terminate 12 months after that government ceases to provide such 
military equipment. This section applies with respect to lethal military 
equipment provided under a contract entered into after October 1, 1997.
    (b) Assistance restricted by subsection (a) or any other similar 
provision of law, may be furnished if the President determines that 
furnishing such assistance is important to the national interests of the 
United States.
    (c) Whenever the waiver of subsection (b) is exercised, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report with respect to the furnishing of such assistance. Any such 
report shall include a detailed explanation of the assistance to be 
provided, including the estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and 
an explanation of how the assistance furthers United States national 
interests.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-41]]

  withholding of assistance for parking fines owed by foreign countries

    Sec. 550. (a) In General.--Of the funds made available for a foreign 
country under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, an amount 
equivalent to 110 percent of the total unpaid fully adjudicated parking 
fines and penalties owed to the District of Columbia by such country as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act shall be withheld from 
obligation for such country until the Secretary of State certifies and 
reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that such 
fines and penalties are fully paid to the government of the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives.

     limitation on assistance for the plo for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 551. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for 
the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has exercised the authority 
under section 604(a) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 
(title VI of Public Law 104-107) or any other legislation to suspend or 
make inapplicable section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and 
that suspension is still in effect: Provided, That if the President 
fails to make the certification under section 604(b)(2) of the Middle 
East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or to suspend the prohibition under 
other legislation, funds appropriated by this Act may not be obligated 
for assistance for the Palestine Liberation Organization for the West 
Bank and Gaza.

                      war crimes tribunals drawdown

    Sec. 552. If the President determines that doing so will contribute 
to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations 
of international humanitarian law, the President may direct a drawdown 
pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish to deal with such 
violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation contained in 
paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination required under 
this section shall be in lieu of any determinations otherwise required 
under section 552(c): Provided further, That 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter until September 
30, 2001, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations describing the steps the United States Government is 
taking to collect information regarding allegations of genocide or other 
violations of international law in the former Yugoslavia and to furnish 
that information to the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal for the 
former Yugoslavia: Provided further, That the drawdown made under this 
section for any tribunal shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-42]]

not be construed as an endorsement or precedent for the establishment of 
any standing or permanent international criminal tribunal or court: 
Provided further, That funds made available for tribunals other than 
Yugoslavia or Rwanda shall be made available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                                landmines

    Sec. 553. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, demining 
equipment available to the Agency for International Development and the 
Department of State and used in support of the clearance of landmines 
and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on 
a grant basis in foreign countries, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the President may prescribe.

            restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 554. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to create in any part of Jerusalem a new office of 
any department or agency of the United States Government for the purpose 
of conducting official United States Government business with the 
Palestinian Authority over Gaza and Jericho or any successor Palestinian 
governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
Principles: Provided, That this restriction shall not apply to the 
acquisition of additional space for the existing Consulate General in 
Jerusalem: Provided further, That meetings between officers and 
employees of the United States and officials of the Palestinian 
Authority, or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in 
the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles, for the purpose of conducting 
official United States Government business with such authority should 
continue to take place in locations other than Jerusalem. As has been 
true in the past, officers and employees of the United States Government 
may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians 
(including those who now occupy positions in the Palestinian Authority), 
have social contacts, and have incidental discussions.

               prohibition of payment of certain expenses

    Sec. 555. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act under the heading ``International Military Education and 
Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for Informational 
Program activities or under the headings ``Child Survival and Disease 
Programs Fund'', ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support 
Fund'' may be obligated or expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including entrance 
        fees at sporting events and amusement parks.

                   special debt relief for the poorest

    Sec. 556. (a) Authority To Reduce Debt.--The President may reduce 
amounts owed to the United States (or any agency of the United States) 
by an eligible country as a result of--
            (1) guarantees issued under sections 221 and 222 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-43]]

            (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms 
        Export Control Act; or
            (3) any obligation or portion of such obligation, to pay for 
        purchases of United States agricultural commodities guaranteed 
        by the Commodity Credit Corporation under export credit 
        guarantee programs authorized pursuant to section 5(f ) of the 
        Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act of June 29, 1948, as 
        amended, section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act of 1966, as 
        amended (Public Law 89-808), or section 202 of the Agricultural 
        Trade Act of 1978, as amended (Public Law 95-501).

    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only to implement multilateral official debt relief 
        and referendum agreements, commonly referred to as ``Paris Club 
        Agreed Minutes''.
            (2) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is provided 
        in advance by appropriations Acts.
            (3) The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
        exercised only with respect to countries with heavy debt burdens 
        that are eligible to borrow from the International Development 
        Association, but not from the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, commonly referred to as ``IDA-
        only'' countries.

    (c) Conditions.--The authority provided by subsection (a) may be 
exercised only with respect to a country whose government--
            (1) does not have an excessive level of military 
        expenditures;
            (2) has not repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism;
            (3) is not failing to cooperate on international narcotics 
        control matters;
            (4) (including its military or other security forces) does 
        not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of 
        internationally recognized human rights; and
            (5) is not ineligible for assistance because of the 
        application of section 527 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.

    (d) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Debt Restructuring''.
    (e) Certain Prohibitions Inapplicable.--A reduction of debt pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall not be considered assistance for purposes of any 
provision of law limiting assistance to a country. The authority 
provided by subsection (a) may be exercised notwithstanding section 
620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 321 of the 
International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975.

              authority to engage in debt buybacks or sales

    Sec. 557. (a) Loans Eligible for Sale, Reduction, or Cancellation.--
            (1) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel certain loans.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may, 
        in accordance with this section, sell to any eligible purchaser 
        any concessional loan or portion thereof made before January 1, 
        1995, pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-44]]

        1961, to the government of any eligible country as defined in 
        section 702(6) of that Act or on receipt of payment from an 
        eligible purchaser, reduce or cancel such loan or portion 
        thereof, only for the purpose of facilitating--
                    (A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
                swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or
                    (B) a debt buyback by an eligible country of its own 
                qualified debt, only if the eligible country uses an 
                additional amount of the local currency of the eligible 
                country, equal to not less than 40 percent of the price 
                paid for such debt by such eligible country, or the 
                difference between the price paid for such debt and the 
                face value of such debt, to support activities that link 
                conservation and sustainable use of natural resources 
                with local community development, and child survival and 
                other child development, in a manner consistent with 
                sections 707 through 710 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961, if the sale, reduction, or cancellation would 
                not contravene any term or condition of any prior 
                agreement relating to such loan.
            (2) Terms and conditions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the President shall, in accordance with this 
        section, establish the terms and conditions under which loans 
        may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.
            (3) Administration.--The Facility, as defined in section 
        702(8) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, shall notify the 
        administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 of 
        purchasers that the President has determined to be eligible, and 
        shall direct such agency to carry out the sale, reduction, or 
        cancellation of a loan pursuant to this section. Such agency 
        shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the sale, 
        reduction, or cancellation.
            (4) Limitation.--The authorities of this subsection shall be 
        available only to the extent that appropriations for the cost of 
        the modification, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance.

    (b) Deposit of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or 
cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or 
accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
    (c) Eligible Purchasers.--A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection 
(a)(1)(A) only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the 
President for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-
equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (d) Debtor Consultations.--Before the sale to any eligible 
purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, of 
any loan made to an eligible country, the President should consult with 
the country concerning the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or 
canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development 
swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
    (e) Availability of Funds.--The authority provided by subsection (a) 
may be used only with regard to funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Debt Restructuring''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-45]]

                          assistance for haiti

    Sec. 558. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any previous 
appropriations Act for foreign operations, export financing and related 
programs shall be made available for assistance for the central 
Government of Haiti until--
            (1) the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that Haiti has held free and fair elections to 
        seat a new parliament; and
            (2) the Director of the Office of National Drug Control 
        Policy reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
        Government of Haiti is fully cooperating with United States 
        efforts to interdict illicit drug traffic through Haiti to the 
        United States.

    (b) Not more than 11 percent of the funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out the provisions of sections 103 through 106 and chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, that are made available 
for Latin America and the Caribbean region may be made available, 
through bilateral and Latin America and the Caribbean regional programs, 
to provide assistance for any country in such region.

  requirement for disclosure of foreign aid in report of secretary of 
                                  state

    Sec. 559. (a) Foreign Aid Reporting Requirement.--In addition to the 
voting practices of a foreign country, the report required to be 
submitted to Congress under section 406(a) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, fiscal years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2414a), shall 
include a side-by-side comparison of individual countries' overall 
support for the United States at the United Nations and the amount of 
United States assistance provided to such country in fiscal year 2000.
    (b) United States Assistance.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``United States assistance'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 481(e)(4) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2291(e)(4)).

   restrictions on voluntary contributions to united nations agencies

    Sec. 560. (a) Prohibition on Voluntary Contributions for the United 
Nations.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available to pay any voluntary contribution of the United States to the 
United Nations (including the United Nations Development Program) if the 
United Nations implements or imposes any taxation on any United States 
persons.
    (b) Certification Required for Disbursement of Funds.--None of the 
funds appropriated by this Act may be made available to pay any 
voluntary contribution of the United States to the United Nations 
(including the United Nations Development Program) unless the President 
certifies to the Congress 15 days in advance of such payment that the 
United Nations is not engaged in any effort to implement or impose any 
taxation on United States persons in order to raise revenue for the 
United Nations or any of its specialized agencies.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section the term ``United States 
person'' refers to--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-46]]

            (1) a natural person who is a citizen or national of the 
        United States; or
            (2) a corporation, partnership, or other legal entity 
        organized under the United States or any State, territory, 
        possession, or district of the United States.

                            haiti coast guard

    Sec. 561. The Government of Haiti shall be eligible to purchase 
defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), for the Coast Guard: Provided, That the authority 
provided by this section shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

          limitation on assistance to the palestinian authority

    Sec. 562. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or expended with respect 
to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate that 
waiving such prohibition is important to the national security interests 
of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.

               limitation on assistance to security forces

    Sec. 563. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
provided to any unit of the security forces of a foreign country if the 
Secretary of State has credible evidence that such unit has committed 
gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of such 
country is taking effective measures to bring the responsible members of 
the security forces unit to justice: Provided, That nothing in this 
section shall be construed to withhold funds made available by this Act 
from any unit of the security forces of a foreign country not credibly 
alleged to be involved in gross violations of human rights: Provided 
further, That in the event that funds are withheld from any unit 
pursuant to this section, the Secretary of State shall promptly inform 
the foreign government of the basis for such action and shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, assist the foreign government in taking 
effective measures to bring the responsible members of the security 
forces to justice.

restrictions on assistance to countries providing sanctuary to indicted 
                              war criminals

    Sec. 564. (a) Bilateral Assistance.--None of the funds made 
available by this or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
operations, export financing and related programs, may be provided for 
any country, entity or municipality described in subsection (e).
    (b) Multilateral Assistance.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-47]]

            (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive directors of the 
        international financial institutions to work in opposition to, 
        and vote against, any extension by such institutions of any 
        financial or technical assistance or grants of any kind to any 
        country or entity described in subsection (e).
            (2) Notification.--Not less than 15 days before any vote in 
        an international financial institution regarding the extension 
        of financial or technical assistance or grants to any country or 
        entity described in subsection (e), the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
        provide to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Banking and Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a written justification 
        for the proposed assistance, including an explanation of the 
        United States position regarding any such vote, as well as a 
        description of the location of the proposed assistance by 
        municipality, its purpose, and its intended beneficiaries.
            (3) Definition.--The term ``international financial 
        institution'' includes the International Monetary Fund, the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International Finance 
        Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guaranty Agency, and 
        the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), subsections (a) 
        and (b) shall not apply to the provision of--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) democratization assistance;
                    (C) assistance for cross border physical 
                infrastructure projects involving activities in both a 
                sanctioned country, entity, or municipality and a 
                nonsanctioned contiguous country, entity, or 
                municipality, if the project is primarily located in and 
                primarily benefits the nonsanctioned country, entity, or 
                municipality and if the portion of the project located 
                in the sanctioned country, entity, or municipality is 
                necessary only to complete the project;
                    (D) small-scale assistance projects or activities 
                requested by United States Armed Forces that promote 
                good relations between such forces and the officials and 
                citizens of the areas in the United States SFOR sector 
                of Bosnia;
                    (E) implementation of the Brcko Arbitral Decision;
                    (F) lending by the international financial 
                institutions to a country or entity to support common 
                monetary and fiscal policies at the national level as 
                contemplated by the Dayton Agreement;
                    (G) direct lending to a non-sanctioned entity, or 
                lending passed on by the national government to a non-
                sanctioned entity; or
                    (H) assistance to the International Police Task 
                Force for the training of a civilian police force.
                    (I) assistance to refugees and internally displaced 
                persons returning to their homes in Bosnia from which 
                they had been forced to leave on the basis of their 
                ethnicity.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-48]]

             (2) Notification.--Every 60 days the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the Agency for 
        International Development, shall publish in the Federal Register 
        and/or in a comparable publicly accessible document or Internet 
        site, a listing and justification of any assistance that is 
        obligated within that period of time for any country, entity, or 
        municipality described in subsection (e), including a 
        description of the purpose of the assistance, project and its 
        location, by municipality.

    (d) Further Limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)--
            (1) no assistance may be made available by this Act, or any 
        prior Act making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
        financing and related programs, in any country, entity, or 
        municipality described in subsection (e), for a program, 
        project, or activity in which a publicly indicted war criminal 
        is known to have any financial or material interest; and
            (2) no assistance (other than emergency foods or medical 
        assistance or demining assistance) may be made available by this 
        Act, or any prior Act making appropriations for foreign 
        operations, export financing and related programs for any 
        program, project, or activity in any sanctioned country, entity, 
        or municipality described in subsection (e) in which a person 
        publicly indicted by the Tribunal is in residence or is engaged 
        in extended activity and competent local authorities have failed 
        to notify the Tribunal or failed to take necessary and 
        significant steps to apprehend and transfer such persons to the 
        Tribunal or in which competent local authorities have obstructed 
        the work of the Tribunal.

    (e) Sanctioned Country, Entity, or Municipality.--A sanctioned 
country, entity, or municipality described in this section is one whose 
competent authorities have failed, as determined by the Secretary of 
State, to take necessary and significant steps to apprehend and transfer 
to the Tribunal all persons who have been publicly indicted by the 
Tribunal.
    (f ) Special Rule.--Subject to subsection (d), subsections (a) and 
(b) shall not apply to the provision of assistance to an entity that is 
not a sanctioned entity, notwithstanding that such entity may be within 
a sanctioned country, if the Secretary of State determines and so 
reports to the appropriate congressional committees that providing 
assistance to that entity would promote peace and internationally 
recognized human rights by encouraging that entity to cooperate fully 
with the Tribunal.
    (g) Current Record of War Criminals and Sanctioned Countries, 
Entities, and Municipalities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall establish and 
        maintain a current record of the location, including the 
        municipality, if known, of publicly indicted war criminals and a 
        current record of sanctioned countries, entities, and 
        municipalities.
            (2) Information of the dci and the secretary of defense.--
        The Director of Central Intelligence and the Secretary of 
        Defense should collect and provide to the Secretary of State 
        information concerning the location, including the municipality, 
        of publicly indicted war criminals.
            (3) Information of the tribunal.--The Secretary of State 
        shall request that the Tribunal and other international 
        organizations and governments provide the Secretary of State

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-49]]

        information concerning the location, including the municipality, 
        of publicly indicted war criminals and concerning country, 
        entity and municipality authorities known to have obstructed the 
        work of the Tribunal.
            (4) Report.--Beginning 30 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and not later than September 1 each year 
        thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report in 
        classified and unclassified form to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the location, including the 
        municipality, if known, of publicly indicted war criminals, on 
        country, entity and municipality authorities known to have 
        obstructed the work of the Tribunal, and on sanctioned 
        countries, entities, and municipalities.
            (5) Information to congress.--Upon the request of the 
        chairman or ranking minority member of any of the appropriate 
        congressional committees, the Secretary of State shall make 
        available to that committee the information recorded under 
        paragraph (1) in a report submitted to the committee in 
        classified and unclassified form.

    (h) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
        application of subsection (a) or subsection (b) with respect to 
        specified bilateral programs or international financial 
        institution projects or programs in a sanctioned country, 
        entity, or municipality upon providing a written determination 
        to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
        Representatives that such assistance directly supports the 
        implementation of the Dayton Agreement and its Annexes, which 
        include the obligation to apprehend and transfer indicted war 
        criminals to the Tribunal.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the date of any 
        written determination under paragraph (1) the Secretary of State 
        shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations and 
        Foreign Relations and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and 
        International Relations and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives regarding the 
        status of efforts to secure the voluntary surrender or 
        apprehension and transfer of persons indicted by the Tribunal, 
        in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, and outlining obstacles 
        to achieving this goal.
            (3) Assistance programs and projects affected.--Any waiver 
        made pursuant to this subsection shall be effective only with 
        respect to a specified bilateral program or multilateral 
        assistance project or program identified in the determination of 
        the Secretary of State to Congress.

    (i) Termination of Sanctions.--The sanctions imposed pursuant to 
subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a country or entity shall cease 
to apply only if the Secretary of State determines and certifies to 
Congress that the authorities of that country, entity, or municipality 
have apprehended and transferred to the Tribunal all persons who have 
been publicly indicted by the Tribunal.
    ( j) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) Country.--The term ``country'' means Bosnia-Herzegovina, 
        Croatia, and Serbia.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-50]]

            (2) Entity.--The term ``entity'' refers to the Federation of 
        Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosova, Montenegro, and the Republika 
        Srpska.
            (3) Dayton agreement.--The term ``Dayton Agreement'' means 
        the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and 
        Herzegovina, together with annexes relating thereto, done at 
        Dayton, November 10 through 16, 1995.
            (4) Tribunal.--The term ``Tribunal'' means the International 
        Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.

    (k) Role of Human Rights Organizations and Government Agencies.--In 
carrying out this section, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of 
the Agency for International Development, and the executive directors of 
the international financial institutions shall consult with 
representatives of human rights organizations and all government 
agencies with relevant information to help prevent publicly indicted war 
criminals from benefiting from any financial or technical assistance or 
grants provided to any country or entity described in subsection (e).

    discrimination against minority religious faiths in the russian 
                               federation

    Sec. 565. None of the funds appropriated under this Act may be made 
available for the Government of the Russian Federation, after 180 days 
from the date of the enactment of this Act, unless the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the Government 
of the Russian Federation has implemented no statute, executive order, 
regulation or similar government action that would discriminate, or 
would have as its principal effect discrimination, against religious 
groups or religious communities in the Russian Federation in violation 
of accepted international agreements on human rights and religious 
freedoms to which the Russian Federation is a party.

                        greenhouse gas emissions

    Sec. 566. (a) Funds made available in this Act to support programs 
or activities the primary purpose of which is promoting or assisting 
country participation in the Kyoto Protocol to the Framework Convention 
on Climate Change (FCCC) shall only be made available subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) The President shall provide a detailed account of all Federal 
agency obligations and expenditures for climate change programs and 
activities, domestic and international obligations for such activities 
in fiscal year 2001, and any plan for programs thereafter related to the 
implementation or the furtherance of protocols pursuant to, or related 
to negotiations to amend the FCCC in conjunction with the President's 
submission of the Budget of the United States Government for Fiscal Year 
2002: Provided, That such report shall include an accounting of 
expenditures by agency with each agency identifying climate change 
activities and associated costs by line item as presented in the 
President's Budget Appendix: Provided further, That such report shall 
identify with regard to the Agency for International Development, 
obligations and expenditures by country or central program and activity.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-51]]

        aid to the government of the democratic republic of congo

    Sec. 567. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be provided to the Central Government of the Democratic 
Republic of Congo.

                     assistance for the middle east

    Sec. 568. Of the funds appropriated in titles II and III of this Act 
under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
``Peacekeeping Operations'', for refugees resettling in Israel under the 
heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', and for assistance for 
Israel to carry out provisions of chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 under the heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', not more than a total of 
$5,241,150,000 may be made available for Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, 
the West Bank and Gaza, the Israel-Lebanon Monitoring Group, the 
Multinational Force and Observers, the Middle East Regional Democracy 
Fund, Middle East Regional Cooperation, and Middle East Multilateral 
Working Groups: Provided, That any funds that were appropriated under 
such headings in prior fiscal years and that were at the time of the 
enactment of this Act obligated or allocated for other recipients may 
not during fiscal year 2001 be made available for activities that, if 
funded under this Act, would be required to count against this ceiling: 
Provided further, That funds may be made available notwithstanding the 
requirements of this section if the President determines and certifies 
to the Committees on Appropriations that it is important to the national 
security interest of the United States to do so and any such additional 
funds shall only be provided through the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      enterprise fund restrictions

    Sec. 569. Prior to the distribution of any assets resulting from any 
liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an Enterprise Fund, in whole 
or in part, the President shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations, a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.

                                cambodia

    Sec. 570. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the 
United States executive directors of the international financial 
institutions to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose 
loans to the Central Government of Cambodia, except loans to support 
basic human needs.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
for assistance for the Central Government of Cambodia.

                    foreign military training report

    Sec. 571. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
shall jointly provide to the Congress by March 1, 2001, a report on all 
military training provided to foreign military personnel (excluding 
sales, and excluding training provided to the military

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-52]]

personnel of countries belonging to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization) under programs administered by the Department of Defense 
and the Department of State during fiscal years 2000 and 2001, including 
those proposed for fiscal year 2001. This report shall include, for each 
such military training activity, the foreign policy justification and 
purpose for the training activity, the cost of the training activity, 
the number of foreign students trained and their units of operation, and 
the location of the training. In addition, this report shall also 
include, with respect to United States personnel, the operational 
benefits to United States forces derived from each such training 
activity and the United States military units involved in each such 
training activity. This report may include a classified annex if deemed 
necessary and appropriate.
    (b) For purposes of this section a report to Congress shall be 
deemed to mean a report to the Appropriations and Foreign Relations 
Committees of the Senate and the Appropriations and International 
Relations Committees of the House of Representatives.

            korean peninsula energy development organization

    Sec. 572. (a) Of the funds made available under the heading 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', not 
to exceed $55,000,000 may be made available for the Korean Peninsula 
Energy Development Organization (hereafter referred to in this section 
as ``KEDO''), notwithstanding any other provision of law, only for the 
administrative expenses and heavy fuel oil costs associated with the 
Agreed Framework.
    (b) Such funds may be made available for KEDO only if, 30 days prior 
to such obligation of funds, the President certifies and so reports to 
Congress that--
            (1) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to implement the Joint 
        Declaration on Denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in which 
        the Government of North Korea has committed not to test, 
        manufacture, produce, receive, possess, store, deploy, or use 
        nuclear weapons, and not to possess nuclear reprocessing or 
        uranium enrichment facilities;
            (2) the parties to the Agreed Framework have taken and 
        continue to take demonstrable steps to pursue the North-South 
        dialogue;
            (3) North Korea is complying with all provisions of the 
        Agreed Framework;
            (4) North Korea has not significantly diverted assistance 
        provided by the United States for purposes for which it was not 
        intended;
            (5) there is no credible evidence that North Korea is 
        seeking to develop or acquire the capability to enrich uranium, 
        or any additional capability to reprocess spent nuclear fuel;
            (6) North Korea is complying with its commitments regarding 
        access to suspect underground construction at Kumchang-ni;
            (7) there is no credible evidence that North Korea is 
        engaged in a nuclear weapons program, including efforts to 
        acquire, develop, test, produce, or deploy such weapons; and
            (8) the United States is continuing to make significant 
        progress on eliminating the North Korean ballistic missile

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-53]]

        threat, including further missile tests and its ballistic 
        missile exports.

    (c) The President may waive the certification requirements of 
subsection (b) if the President determines that it is vital to the 
national security interests of the United States and provides written 
policy justifications to the appropriate congressional committees. No 
funds may be obligated for KEDO until 30 days after submission to 
Congress of such waiver.
    (d) The Secretary of State shall, at the time of the annual 
presentation for appropriations, submit a report providing a full and 
detailed accounting of the fiscal year 2002 request for the United 
States contribution to KEDO, the expected operating budget of KEDO, 
proposed annual costs associated with heavy fuel oil purchases, 
including unpaid debt, and the amount of funds pledged by other donor 
nations and organizations to support KEDO activities on a per country 
basis, and other related activities.

                     african development foundation

    Sec. 573. Funds made available to grantees of the African 
Development Foundation may be invested pending expenditure for project 
purposes when authorized by the President of the Foundation: Provided, 
That interest earned shall be used only for the purposes for which the 
grant was made: Provided further, That this authority applies to 
interest earned both prior to and following enactment of this provision: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African 
Development Foundation Act, in exceptional circumstances the board of 
directors of the Foundation may waive the $250,000 limitation contained 
in that section with respect to a project: Provided further, That the 
Foundation shall provide a report to the Committees on Appropriations in 
advance of exercising such waiver authority.

  prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 574. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical support, 
consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the Palestinian 
Broadcasting Corporation.

                                  iraq

    Sec. 575. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
$25,000,000 shall be made available for programs benefiting the Iraqi 
people, of which not less than $12,000,000 should be made available for 
food, medicine, and other humanitarian assistance (including related 
administrative, communications, logistical, and transportation costs) to 
be provided to the Iraqi people inside Iraq: Provided, That such 
assistance should be provided through the Iraqi National Congress 
Support Foundation or the Iraqi National Congress: Provided further, 
That not less than $6,000,000 of the amounts made available for programs 
benefiting the Iraqi people should be made available to the Iraqi 
National Congress Support Foundation or the Iraqi National Congress for 
the production and broadcasting inside Iraq of radio and satellite 
television programming: Provided further, That funds may

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-54]]

be made available to support efforts to bring about political transition 
in Iraq which may be made available only to Iraqi opposition groups 
designated under the Iraq Liberation Act (Public Law 105-338) for 
political, economic, humanitarian, and other activities of such groups, 
and not to exceed $2,000,000 may be made available for groups and 
activities seeking the prosecution of Saddam Hussein and other Iraqi 
government officials for war crimes: Provided further, That none of 
these funds may be made available for administrative expenses of the 
Department of State: Provided further, That the President shall, not 
later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a plan (in classified or unclassified form) for the 
transfer to the Iraqi National Congress Support Foundation or the Iraqi 
National Congress of humanitarian assistance for the Iraqi people 
pursuant to this paragraph, and for the commencement of broadcasting 
operations pursuant to this paragraph.

        agency for international development budget justification

    Sec. 576. The Agency for International Development shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations a detailed budget justification that is 
consistent with the requirements of section 515, for each fiscal year. 
The Agency shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a proposed 
budget justification format no later than November 15, 2000, or 30 days 
after the enactment of this Act, whichever occurs later. The proposed 
format shall include how the Agency's budget justification will address: 
(1) estimated levels of obligations for the current fiscal year and 
actual levels for the 2 previous fiscal years; (2) the President's 
request for new budget authority and estimated carryover obligational 
authority for the budget year; (3) the disaggregation of budget data and 
staff levels by program and activity for each bureau, field mission, and 
central office; and (4) the need for a user-friendly, transparent budget 
narrative.

                             kyoto protocol

    Sec. 577. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, 
at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United States Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to the Senate 
for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article II, section 
2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which has not 
entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.

                       west bank and gaza program

    Sec. 578. For fiscal year 2001, 30 days prior to the initial 
obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza Program, the 
Secretary of State shall certify to the appropriate committees of 
Congress that procedures have been established to assure the Comptroller 
General of the United States will have access to appropriate United 
States financial information in order to review the uses of United 
States assistance for the Program funded under

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-55]]

the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.

                                indonesia

    Sec. 579. (a) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``International Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' may be made available for Indonesia if the President 
determines and submits a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees that the Government of Indonesia and the Indonesian Armed 
Forces are--
            (1) taking effective measures to bring to justice members of 
        the armed forces and militia groups against whom there is 
        credible evidence of human rights violations;
            (2) taking effective measures to bring to justice members of 
        the armed forces against whom there is credible evidence of 
        aiding or abetting militia groups;
            (3) allowing displaced persons and refugees to return home 
        to East Timor, including providing safe passage for refugees 
        returning from West Timor;
            (4) not impeding the activities of the United Nations 
        Transitional Authority in East Timor;
            (5) demonstrating a commitment to preventing incursions into 
        East Timor by members of militia groups in West Timor; and
            (6) demonstrating a commitment to accountability by 
        cooperating with investigations and prosecutions of members of 
        the Indonesian Armed Forces and militia groups responsible for 
        human rights violations in Indonesia and East Timor.

                          man and the biosphere

    Sec. 580. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be provided for the United Nations Man and the Biosphere 
Program or the United Nations World Heritage Fund.

                      taiwan reporting requirement

    Sec. 581. Not less than 30 days prior to the next round of arms 
talks between the United States and Taiwan, the President shall consult, 
on a classified basis, with appropriate Congressional leaders and 
committee chairmen and ranking members regarding the following matters:
            (1) Taiwan's requests for purchase of defense articles and 
        defense services during the pending round of arms talks;
            (2) the Administration's assessment of the legitimate 
        defense needs of Taiwan, in light of Taiwan's requests; and
            (3) the decision-making process used by the Executive branch 
        to consider those requests.

   restriction on united states assistance for certain reconstruction 
                        efforts in central europe

    Sec. 582. Funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
for United States assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States 
should to the maximum extent practicable be used for the procurement of 
articles and services of United States origin.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-56]]

  restrictions on assistance to governments destabilizing sierra leone

    Sec. 583. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available for assistance for the government of any country that the 
Secretary of State determines there is credible evidence that such 
government has provided lethal or non-lethal military support or 
equipment, directly or through intermediaries, within the previous 6 
months to the Sierra Leone Revolutionary United Front (RUF), or any 
other group intent on destabilizing the democratically elected 
government of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
for assistance for the government of any country that the Secretary of 
State determines there is credible evidence that such government has 
aided or abetted, within the previous 6 months, in the illicit 
distribution, transportation, or sale of diamonds mined in Sierra Leone.
    (c) Whenever the prohibition on assistance required under subsection 
(a) or (b) is exercised, the Secretary of State shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in a timely manner.

                     voluntary separation incentives

    Sec. 584. Section 579(c)(2)(D) of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000, as enacted by 
section 1000(a)(2) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public 
Law 106-113), is amended by striking ``December 31, 2000'' and inserting 
in lieu thereof ``December 31, 2001''.

             contributions to united nations population fund

    Sec. 585. (a) Limitations on Amount of Contribution.--Of the amounts 
made available under ``International Organizations and Programs'', not 
more than $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001 shall be available for the 
United Nations Population Fund (hereafter in this subsection referred to 
as the ``UNFPA'').
    (b) Prohibition on Use of Funds in China.--None of the funds made 
available under ``International Organizations and Programs'' may be made 
available for the UNFPA for a country program in the People's Republic 
of China.
    (c) Conditions on Availability of Funds.--Amounts made available 
under ``International Organizations and Programs'' for fiscal year 2001 
for the UNFPA may not be made available to UNFPA unless--
            (1) the UNFPA maintains amounts made available to the UNFPA 
        under this section in an account separate from other accounts of 
        the UNFPA;
            (2) the UNFPA does not commingle amounts made available to 
        the UNFPA under this section with other sums; and
            (3) the UNFPA does not fund abortions.

    (d) Report to the Congress and Withholding of Funds.--
            (1) Not later than February 15, 2001, the Secretary of State 
        shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees indicating the amount of funds that the United 
        Nations Population Fund is budgeting for the year in which the 
        report is submitted for a country program in the People's 
        Republic of China.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-57]]

            (2) If a report under paragraph (1) indicates that the 
        United Nations Population Fund plans to spend funds for a 
        country program in the People's Republic of China in the year 
        covered by the report, then the amount of such funds that the 
        UNFPA plans to spend in the People's Republic of China shall be 
        deducted from the funds made available to the UNFPA after March 
        1 for obligation for the remainder of the fiscal year in which 
        the report is submitted.

                          indochinese parolees

    Sec. 586. (a) The status of certain aliens from Vietnam, Cambodia, 
and Laos described in subsection (b) of this section may be adjusted by 
the Attorney General, under such regulations as she may prescribe, to 
that of an alien lawfully admitted permanent residence if--
            (1) within 3 years after the date of promulgation by the 
        Attorney General of regulations in connection with this title 
        the alien makes an application for such adjustment and pays the 
        appropriate fee;
            (2) the alien is otherwise eligible to receive an immigrant 
        visa and is otherwise admissible to the United States for 
        permanent residence except as described in subsection (c); and
            (3) the alien had been physically present in the United 
        States prior to October 1, 1997.

    (b) The benefits provided by subsection (a) shall apply to any alien 
who is a native or citizen of Vietnam, Laos, or Cambodia and who was 
inspected and paroled into the United States before October 1, 1997 and 
was physically present in the United States on October 1, 1997; and
            (1) was paroled into the United States from Vietnam under 
        the auspices of the Orderly Departure Program; or
            (2) was paroled into the United States from a refugee camp 
        in East Asia; or
            (3) was paroled into the United States from a displaced 
        person camp administered by the United Nations High Commissioner 
        for Refugees in Thailand.

    (c) Waiver of Certain Grounds for Inadmissibility.--The provisions 
of paragraphs (4), (5), and (7)(A) and (9) of section 212(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act shall not be applicable to any alien 
seeking admission to the United States under this subsection, and 
nothwithstanding any other provision of law, the Attorney General may 
waive 212(a)(1); 212(a)(6)(B), (C), and (F); 212(8)(A); 212(a)(10)(B) 
and (D) with respect to such an alien in order to prevent extreme 
hardship to the alien or the alien's spouse, parent, son or daughter, 
who is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence. Any such waiver by the Attorney General shall be in 
writing and shall be granted only on an individual basis following an 
investigation.
    (d) Ceiling.--The number of aliens who may be provided adjustment of 
status under this provision shall not exceed 5,000.
    (e) Date of Approval.--Upon the approval of such an application for 
adjustment of status, the Attorney General shall create a record of the 
alien's admission as a lawful permanent resident as of the date of the 
alien's inspection and parole described in subsection (b)(1), (b)(2) and 
(b)(3).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-58]]

    (f ) No Offset in Number of Visas Available.--When an alien is 
granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence under this section the Secretary of State shall not be 
required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be issued 
under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

                   american churchwomen in el salvador

    Sec. 587. (a) Information relevant to the December 2, 1980, murders 
of four American churchwomen in El Salvador shall be made public to the 
fullest extent possible.
    (b) The Secretary of State and the Department of State are to be 
commended for fully releasing information regarding the murders.

    (c) The President shall order all Federal agencies and departments 
that possess relevant information to make every effort to declassify and 
release to the victims' families relevant information as expeditiously 
as possible.
    (d) In making determinations concerning the declassification and 
release of relevant information, the Federal agencies and departments 
shall presume in favor of releasing, rather than of withholding, such 
information.

               procurement and financial management reform

    Sec. 588. (a) Funding Conditions.--Of the funds made available under 
the heading ``International Financial Institutions'' in this Act, 10 
percent of the United States portion or payment to such International 
Financial Institution shall be withheld by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, until the Secretary certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations that, to the extent pertinent to its lending programs, 
the institution is--
            (1) Implementing procedures for conducting annual audits by 
        qualified independent auditors for all new investment lending;
            (2) Implementing procedures for annual independent external 
        audits of central bank financial statements for countries making 
        use of International Monetary Fund resources under new 
        arrangements or agreements with the Fund;
            (3) Taking steps to establish an independent fraud and 
        corruption investigative organization or office;
            (4) Implementing a process to assess a recipient country's 
        procurement and financial management capabilities including an 
        analysis of the risks of corruption prior to initiating new 
        investment lending; and
            (5) Taking steps to fund and implement programs and policies 
        to improve transparency and anti-corruption programs and 
        procurement and financial management controls in recipient 
        countries.

    (b) Report.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall report on March 1, 
2001 to the Committees on Appropriations on progress made by each 
International Financial Institution, and, to the extent pertinent to its 
lending programs, the International Monetary Fund, to fulfill the 
objectives identified in subsection (a) and on progress of the 
International Monetary Fund to implement procedures for annual 
independent external audits of central bank financial statements for 
countries making use of Fund resources under all new arrangements with 
the Fund.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-59]]

    (c) Definitions.--The term ``International Financial Institutions'' 
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
International Development Association, the International Finance 
Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Inter-American 
Investment Corporation, the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral 
Investment Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the Asian Development Fund, 
the African Development Bank, the African Development Fund, the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the International Monetary 
Fund.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 589. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export Control Act may be 
used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt and NATO and major non-NATO 
allies for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option 
to purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial 
suppliers, not including Major Defense Equipment (other than helicopters 
and other types of aircraft having possible civilian application), if 
the President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or 
national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under such 
Act.

                  foreign military expenditures report

    Sec. 590. Section 511(b) of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 
102-391) is amended by repealing paragraph (2) relating to military 
expenditures.

               abolition of the inter-american foundation

    Sec. 591. Section 586 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000, as enacted by section 
1000(a)(2) of Public Law 106-113, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``year 2000'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``years 2000 and 2001''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``6290f'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``290f''.

repeal of requirement for annual gao report on the financial operations 
                   of the international monetary fund

    Sec. 592. Section 1706 of the International Financial Institutions 
Act (22 U.S.C. 262r-5) is repealed.

                      extension of gao authorities

    Sec. 593. The funds made available to the Comptroller General 
pursuant to title I, chapter 4 of Public Law 106-31 shall remain 
available until expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-60]]

                           funding for serbia

    Sec. 594. (a) Of funds made available in this Act, up to 
$100,000,000 may be made available for assistance for Serbia: Provided, 
That none of these funds may be made available for assistance for Serbia 
after March 31, 2001 unless the President has made the determination and 
certification contained in subsection (c).
    (b) After March 31, 2001, the Secretary of the Treasury should 
instruct the United States executive directors to international 
financial institutions to support loans and assistance to the Government 
of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia subject to the conditions in 
subsection (c): Provided, That section 576 of the Foreign Operations, 
Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1997, as 
amended, shall not apply to the provision of loans and assistance to the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia through international financial 
institutions.
    (c) The determination and certification referred to in subsection 
(a) is a determination by the President and a certification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate that the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is--
            (1) cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for 
        Yugoslavia including access for investigators, the provision of 
        documents, and the surrender and transfer of indictees or 
        assistance in their apprehension;
            (2) taking steps that are consistent with the Dayton Accords 
        to end Serbian financial, political, security and other support 
        which has served to maintain separate Republika Srpska 
        institutions; and
            (3) taking steps to implement policies which reflect a 
        respect for minority rights and the rule of law.

    (d) Subsections (b), (c), and (d) shall not apply to Montenegro, 
Kosova, humanitarian assistance or assistance to promote democracy in 
municipalities.
    (e) The Secretary of State should instruct the United States 
representatives to regional and international organizations to support 
membership for the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
(FRY) subject to a certification by the President to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that the 
FRY has applied for membership on the same basis as the other successor 
states to the FRY and has taken appropriate steps to resolve issues 
related to state liabilities, assets and property.

                           forestry initiative

    Sec. 595. (a) The provisions of S. 3140 of the 106th Congress, as 
introduced on September 28, 2000 are hereby enacted into law.
    (b) In publishing the Act in slip form and in the United States 
Statutes at Large pursuant to section 112, of title 1, United States 
Code, the Archivist of the United States shall include after the date of 
approval at the end appendixes setting forth the texts of the bill 
referred to in subsection (a) of this section.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-61]]

                                user fees

    Sec. 596. The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
States Executive Director at each international financial institution 
(as defined in section 1701(c)(2) of the International Financial 
Institutions Act) and the International Monetary Fund to oppose any loan 
of these institutions that would require user fees or service charges on 
poor people for primary education or primary healthcare, including 
prevention and treatment efforts for HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, 
and infant, child, and maternal well-being, in connection with the 
institutions' lending programs.

                 basic education assistance for pakistan

    Sec. 597. Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 may be made available for assistance for basic 
education programs for Pakistan, notwithstanding any provision of law 
that restricts assistance to foreign countries: Provided, That such 
assistance is subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                  authorization for population planning

    Sec. 598. Not to exceed $425,000,000 of the funds appropriated in 
title II of this Act may be available for population planning activities 
or other population assistance: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
614 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or any other provision of 
law, none of such funds may be obligated or expended until February 15, 
2001.

             TITLE VI--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                  agency for international development

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$135,000,000, for rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance for 
Mozambique, Madagascar, and southern Africa, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be made available for nonproject assistance: Provided 
further, That prior to any obligation of funds appropriated under this 
heading, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations with a detailed report 
containing the amount of the proposed obligation and a description of 
the programs and projects, on a country-by-country basis, to be funded 
with such amount: Provided further, That up to $12,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be charged to finance obligations 
for which appropriations available under chapters 1 and 10 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 were initially charged for assistance 
for rehabilitation and reconstruction for Mozambique, Madagascar, and 
southern Africa: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, up to $5,000,000 may be used for administrative

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-62]]

expenses, including auditing costs, of the Agency for International 
Development associated with the assistance furnished under this heading: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

     operating expenses of the agency for international development

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development'', $13,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount provided shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

           assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the 
Baltic States'', $75,825,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That this amount shall only be available for assistance 
for Montenegro, Croatia, and Serbia: Provided further, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
amount provided shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

              international military education and training

    For an additional amount for ``International Military Education and 
Training'', $2,875,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, 
for grants to countries of the Balkans and southeast Europe: Provided, 
That funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available 
notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-63]]

by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount provided shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
to enable the President to carry out section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act, $31,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, 
for grants to countries of the Balkans and southeast Europe: Provided, 
That funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be made available 
notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956: Provided further, That 
funds made available under this heading shall be nonrepayable, 
notwithstanding sections 23(b) and 23(c) of the Act: Provided further, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the amount provided shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                           debt restructuring

    For an additional amount for ``Debt restructuring'' $210,000,000 for 
a contribution to the ``Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Trust Fund'' of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HIPC Trust 
Fund): Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request that includes designation 
of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 601. Limitation on Supplemental Funds for Population 
Planning.--Amounts appropriated under this title or under any other 
provision of law for fiscal year 2001 that are in addition to the funds 
made available under title II of this Act shall be deemed to have been 
appropriated under title II of such Act and shall be subject to all 
limitations and restrictions contained in section 599 of this Act, 
notwithstanding section 543 of this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-64]]

                        TITLE VII--DEBT REDUCTION

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount for fiscal year 2001 into the 
account established under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States 
Code, to reduce the public debt, $5,000,000,000.

                            General Provision

             adjustment of 2001 discretionary spending caps

    Sec. 701. (a) Section 251(c)(5) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)(5)) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
            ``(A) for the discretionary category: $637,000,000,000 in 
        new budget authority and $612,695,000,000 in outlays;''.

    (b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), in preparing the report 
in calendar year 2000 as required by section 254(f ) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 904(f )) with 
respect to fiscal year 2001, the Office of Management and Budget shall 
not make the calculations required by section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the calculations permitted by 
subparagraph (B), (C), (F), and (G) of section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (c) Under the terms of section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 adjustments for rounding shall be 
provided for the first amount referred to in section 251(c)(5)(A) of 
such Act, as amended by this section, equal to 0.5 percent of such 
amount.

 TITLE VIII--INTERNATIONAL DEBT FORGIVENESS AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
                           INSTITUTIONS REFORM

SEC. 801. DEBT RELIEF UNDER THE HEAVILY INDEBTED POOR COUNTRIES (HIPC) 
            INITIATIVE.

    (a) Repeal of Limitation on Availability of Earnings on Profits of 
Nonpublic Gold Sales.--Paragraph (1) of section 62 of the Bretton Woods 
Agreements Act, as added by section 503(a) of H.R. 3425 of the 106th 
Congress (as enacted by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-113 (113 
Stat. 1536)), is amended--
            (1) by adding ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (B); and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (D).

    (b) Contributions to HIPC Trust Fund.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations for contributions.--
        There is authorized to be appropriated for the period beginning 
        October 1, 2000, and ending September 30, 2003, $435,000,000 for 
        purposes of United States contributions to the Heavily Indebted 
        Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund administered by the Bank.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-65]]

            (2) Availability of amounts.--Amounts appropriated pursuant 
        to the authorization of appropriations in paragraph (1) shall 
        remain available until expended.

    (c) Certification Required.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
        later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall certify to the appropriate congressional 
        committees that the following requirements are satisfied:
                    (A) Implementation by the bank of certain 
                policies.--The Bank is implementing--
                          (i) policies providing for the suspension of a 
                      loan if funds are being diverted for purposes 
                      other than the purpose for which the loan was 
                      intended;
                          (ii) policies seeking to prevent loans from 
                      displacing private sector financing;
                          (iii) policies requiring that loans other than 
                      project loans must be disbursed--
                                    (I) on the basis of specific prior 
                                reforms; or
                                    (II) incrementally upon 
                                implementation of specific reforms after 
                                initial disbursement;
                          (iv) policies seeking to minimize the number 
                      of projects receiving financing that would 
                      displace a population involuntarily or be to the 
                      detriment of the people or culture of the area 
                      into which the displaced population is to be 
                      moved;
                          (v) policies vigorously promoting open markets 
                      and liberalization of trade in goods and services;
                          (vi) policies providing that financing by the 
                      Bank concentrates chiefly on projects and programs 
                      that promote economic and social progress rather 
                      than short-term liquidity financing; and
                          (vii) policies providing for the establishment 
                      of appropriate qualitative and quantitative 
                      indicators to measure progress toward graduation 
                      from receiving financing on concessionary terms, 
                      including an estimated timetable by which 
                      countries may graduate over the next 15 years.
                    (B) Implementation by the fund of certain 
                policies.--The Fund is implementing--
                          (i) policies providing for the suspension of a 
                      financing if funds are being diverted for purposes 
                      other than the purpose for which the financing was 
                      intended;
                          (ii) policies seeking to ensure that financing 
                      by the Fund normally serves as a catalyst for 
                      private sector financing and does not displace 
                      such financing;
                          (iii) policies requiring that financing must 
                      be disbursed--
                                    (I) on the basis of specific prior 
                                reforms; or
                                    (II) incrementally upon 
                                implementation of specific reforms after 
                                initial disbursement;
                          (iv) policies vigorously promoting open 
                      markets and liberalization of trade in goods and 
                      services;
                          (v) policies providing that financing by the 
                      Fund concentrates chiefly on short-term balance of 
                      payments financing; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-66]]

                          (vi) policies providing for the use, in 
                      conjunction with the Bank, of appropriate 
                      qualitative and quantitative indicators to measure 
                      progress toward graduation from receiving 
                      financing on concessionary terms, including an 
                      estimated timetable by which countries may 
                      graduate over the next 15 years.
            (2) Exception.--In the event that the Secretary cannot 
        certify that a policy described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B) is 
        being implemented, the Secretary shall, not later than 30 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees on the progress, if any, 
        made by the Bank or the Fund in adopting and implementing such 
        policy, as the case may be.

SEC. 802. STRENGTHENING PROCEDURES FOR MONITORING USE OF FUNDS BY 
            MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall instruct the United States 
Executive Director of each multilateral development bank to exert the 
influence of the United States to strengthen the bank's procedures and 
management controls intended to ensure that funds disbursed by the bank 
to borrowing countries are used as intended and in a manner that 
complies with the conditions of the bank's loan to that country.
    (b) Progress Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report evaluating the progress made toward 
achieving the objectives of subsection (a), including a description of--
            (1) any progress made in improving the supervision, 
        monitoring, and auditing of programs and projects supported by 
        each multilateral development bank, in order to identify and 
        reduce bribery and corruption;
            (2) any progress made in developing each multilateral 
        development bank's priorities for allocating anticorruption 
        assistance;
            (3) country-specific anticorruption programs supported by 
        each multilateral development bank;
            (4) actions taken to identify and discipline multilateral 
        development bank employees suspected of knowingly being involved 
        in corrupt activities; and
            (5) the outcome of efforts to harmonize procurement 
        practices across all multilateral development banks.

SEC. 803. REPORTS ON POLICIES, OPERATIONS, AND MANAGEMENT OF 
            INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Annual Report on Financial Operations.--Beginning 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, or October 31, 2000, whichever is 
later, and on October 31 of each year thereafter, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on the sufficiency of audits of the 
financial operations of each multilateral development bank conducted by 
persons or entities outside such bank.
    (b) Annual Report on United States Supported Policies.--Beginning 
180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, or October 31, 2000, 
whichever is later, and on October 31 of each year thereafter, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees on--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-67]]

            (1) the actions taken by recipient countries, as a result of 
        the assistance allocated to them by the multilateral development 
        banks under programs referred to in section 802(b), to 
        strengthen governance and reduce the opportunity for bribery and 
        corruption; and
            (2) how International Development Association-financed 
        projects contribute to the eventual graduation of a 
        representative sample of countries from reliance on financing on 
        concessionary terms and international development assistance.

    (c) Amendment of Report on Fund.--Section 1705(a) of the 
International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r-4(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``the progress''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, and (2) the progress made by the International Monetary Fund 
        in adopting and implementing the policies described in section 
        801(c)(1)(B) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001''.

    (d) Report on Debt Relief.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees on the history of debt relief 
programs led by, or coordinated with, international financial 
institutions, including but not limited to--
            (1) the extent to which poor countries and the poorest-of-
        the-poor benefit from debt relief, including measurable evidence 
        of any such benefits; and
            (2) the extent to which debt relief contributes to the 
        graduation of a country from reliance on financing on 
        concessionary terms and international development assistance.

SEC. 804. REPEAL OF BILATERAL FUNDING FOR INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
            INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 209(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2169(d); relating to bilateral funding for international financial 
institutions) is repealed.

SEC. 805. REFOCUSED ACTIVITIES OF THE IMF.

    The Bretton Woods Agreement Act is amended by adding the following 
new section:

``SEC. 63. PRINCIPLES FOR INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LENDING.

    ``It is the policy of the United States to work to implement reforms 
in the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to achieve the following goals:
            ``(1) Short-term balance of payments financing.--Lending 
        from the general resources of the Fund should concentrate 
        chiefly on short-term balance of payments financing.
            ``(2) Limitations on medium-term financing.--Use of medium-
        term lending from the general resources of the Fund should be 
        limited to a set of well-defined circumstances, such as--
                    ``(A) when a member's balance of payments problems 
                will be protracted;
                    ``(B) such member has a strong structural reform 
                program in place; and
                    ``(C) the member has little or no access to private 
                sources of capital.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-68]]

            ``(3) Premium pricing.--Premium pricing should be introduced 
        for lending from the general resources of the Fund, for greater 
        than 200 percent of a member's quota in the Fund, to discourage 
        excessive use of Fund lending and to encourage members to rely 
        on private financing to the maximum extent possible.
            ``(4) Redressing misreporting of information.--The Fund 
        should have in place and apply systematically a strong framework 
        of safeguards and measures to respond to, correct, and 
        discourage cases of misreporting of information in the context 
        of a Fund program, including--
                    ``(A) suspending Fund disbursements and ensuring 
                that Fund lending is not resumed to members that engage 
                in serious misreporting of material information until 
                such time as remedial actions and sanctions, as 
                appropriate, have been applied;
                    ``(B) ensuring that members make early repayments, 
                where appropriate, of Fund resources disbursed on the 
                basis of misreported information;
                    ``(C) making public cases of serious misreporting of 
                material information;
                    ``(D) requiring all members receiving new 
                disbursements from the Fund to undertake annually 
                independent audits of central bank financial statements 
                and publish the resulting audits; and
                    ``(E) requiring all members seeking new loans from 
                the Fund to provide to the Fund detailed information 
                regarding their internal control procedures, financial 
                reporting and audit mechanisms and, in cases where there 
                are questions about the adequacy of these systems, 
                undertaking an on-site review and identifying needed 
                remedies.''.

SEC. 806. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Banking and Financial Services and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Bank.--The term ``Bank'' means the International Bank 
        for Reconstruction and Development.
            (3) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the International 
        Monetary Fund.
            (4) International financial institutions.--The term 
        ``international financial institutions'' means the multilateral 
        development banks and the International Monetary Fund.
            (5) Multilateral development banks.--The term ``multilateral 
        development banks'' means the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
        Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-
        American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the 
        Inter-American Investment Corporation, the African Development 
        Bank, the African Development Fund, the European Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, and the Multilateral Investment 
        Guaranty Agency.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-69]]

            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2001''.

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ENDNOTE: The following appendix was added pursuant to the provisions 
of section 595 of this Appenidx (114 Stat. 1900A-60).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-71]]



                          APPENDIX A-1--S. 3140

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Kentucky National Forest Land 
Transfer Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the United States owns over 40,000 acres of land and 
        mineral rights administered by the Tennessee Valley Authority 
        within the Daniel Boone National Forest in the State of 
        Kentucky;
            (2) the land and mineral rights were acquired by the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority for purposes of power production 
        using funds derived from ratepayers;
            (3) the management of the land and mineral rights should be 
        carried out in accordance with the laws governing the management 
        of national forests; and
            (4) the Tennessee Valley Authority, on behalf of the 
        ratepayers of the Authority, should be reasonably compensated 
        for the land and mineral rights of the Authority transferred 
        within the Daniel Boone National Forest.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to transfer administrative jurisdiction over land of the 
        Tennessee Valley Authority within the Daniel Boone National 
        Forest to the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (2) to compensate the Tennessee Valley Authority for the 
        reasonable value of the transfer of jurisdiction.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Covered land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered land'' means all 
                land and interests in land owned or managed by the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority within the boundaries of the 
                Daniel Boone National Forest in the State of Kentucky 
                that are transferred under this Act, including surface 
                and subsurface estates.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``covered land'' does not 
                include any land or interest in land owned or managed by 
                the Tennessee Valley Authority for the transmission of 
                water, gas, or power, including power line easements and 
                associated facilities.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-72]]

SEC. 4. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OVER COVERED LAND.

    (a) In General.--All covered land is transferred to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary to be managed in accordance 
with the laws (including regulations) pertaining to the National Forest 
System.
    (b) Authority of Secretary of Interior Over Mineral Resources.--The 
transfer of the covered land shall be subject to the authority of the 
Secretary of the Interior with respect to mineral resources underlying 
National Forest System land, including laws pertaining to mineral 
leasing and the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 
U.S.C. 1201 et seq.).
    (c) Surface Mining.--No surface mining shall be permitted with 
respect to any covered land except as provided under section 522(e)(2) 
of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 
1272(e)(2)).

SEC. 5. MONETARY CREDITS.

    (a) In General.--In consideration for the transfer provided under 
section 4, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide to the Tennessee 
Valley Authority monetary credits with a value of $4,000,000 that may be 
used for the payment of--
            (1) not more than 50 percent of the bonus or other payments 
        made by successful bidders in any sales of mineral, oil, gas, or 
        geothermal leases in the contiguous 48 States under--
                    (A) the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.);
                    (B) the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1331 et seq.); or
                    (C) the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 
                et seq.);
            (2) not more than 10 percent of the bonus or other payments 
        made by successful bidders in any sales of mineral, oil, gas, or 
        geothermal leases in the State of Alaska under the laws referred 
        to in paragraph (1);
            (3) not more than 50 percent of any royalty, rental, or 
        advance royalty payment made to the United States to maintain 
        any mineral, oil, gas, or geothermal lease in the contiguous 48 
        States issued under the laws referred to in paragraph (1); or
            (4) not more than 10 percent of any royalty, rental, or 
        advance royalty payment made to the United States to maintain 
        any mineral, oil, gas, or geothermal lease in the State of 
        Alaska issued under the laws referred to in paragraph (1).

    (b) Value of Credits.--The total amount of credits provided under 
subsection (a) shall be considered equal to the fair market value of the 
covered land.
    (c) Acceptance of Credits.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall accept 
        credits provided under subsection (a) in the same manner as cash 
        for the payments described under subsection (a).
            (2) Use of credits.--The use of the credits shall be subject 
        to the laws (including regulations) governing such payments, to 
        the extent the laws are consistent with this section.

    (d) Treatment of Credits for Distribution to States.--All credits 
accepted by the Secretary of the Interior under subsection (c) for the 
payments described in subsection (a) shall be considered to be money 
received for the purpose of section 35 of the Mineral

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-73]]

Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191) and section 20 of the Geothermal Steam Act 
of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1019).
    (e) Exchange Account.--
            (1) Establishment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall establish an exchange 
        account for the Tennessee Valley Authority for the monetary 
        credits provided under subsection (a).
            (2) Administration.--The account shall--
                    (A) be established with the Minerals Management 
                Service of the Department of the Interior; and
                    (B) have an initial balance of credits equal to 
                $4,000,000.
            (3) Use of credits.--
                    (A) In general.--The credits shall be available to 
                the Tennessee Valley Authority for the purposes 
                described in subsection (a).
                    (B) Adjustment of balance.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior shall adjust the balance of credits in the 
                account to reflect credits accepted by the Secretary of 
                the Interior under subsection (c).

    (f) Transfer or Sale of Credits.--
            (1) In general.--The Tennessee Valley Authority may transfer 
        or sell any credits in the account of the Authority to another 
        person or entity.
            (2) Use of transferred credits.--Credits transferred or sold 
        under paragraph (1) may be used in accordance with this 
        subsection only by a person or entity that is qualified to bid 
        on, or that holds, a mineral, oil, or gas lease under--
                    (A) the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.);
                    (B) the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
                1331 et seq.); or
                    (C) the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 
                et seq.).
            (3) Notification.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the 
                transfer or sale of any credits, the Tennessee Valley 
                Authority shall notify the Secretary of the Interior of 
                the transfer or sale.
                    (B) Validity of transfer or sale.--The transfer or 
                sale of any credit shall not be valid until the 
                Secretary of the Interior has received the notification 
                required under subparagraph (A).
            (4) Time limit on use of credits.--
                    (A) In general.--On the date that is 5 years after 
                the date on which an account is established for the 
                Tennessee Valley Authority under subsection (e), the 
                Secretary of the Interior shall terminate the account.
                    (B) Unused credits.--Any credits that originated in 
                the terminated account and have not been used as of the 
                termination date, including any credits transferred or 
                sold under this subsection, shall expire.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-74]]

SEC. 6. EXISTING AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this Act affects any valid existing 
rights under any lease, permit, or other authorization by the Tennessee 
Valley Authority on covered land in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Renewal.--Renewal of any existing lease, permit, or other 
authorization on covered land shall be at the discretion of the 
Secretary on terms and conditions determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 7. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Environmental law.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``environmental law'' 
                means all applicable Federal, State, and local laws 
                (including regulations) and requirements related to 
                protection of human health, natural or cultural 
                resources, or the environment.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``environmental law'' 
                includes--
                          (i) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
                      Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
                      9601 et seq.);
                          (ii) the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
                      6901 et seq.);
                          (iii) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                      (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                          (iv) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
                      seq.);
                          (v) the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and 
                      Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
                          (vi) the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
                      U.S.C. 2601 et seq.);
                          (vii) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
                      300f et seq.);
                          (viii) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                      of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
                          (ix) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                      U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
            (2) Hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant, release, 
        and response action.--The terms ``hazardous substance'', 
        ``pollutant or contaminant'', ``release'', and ``response 
        action'' have the meanings given the terms in section 101 and 
        other provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
        seq.).

    (b) Documentation of Existing Conditions.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Tennessee Valley Authority shall 
        provide the Secretary all documentation and information that 
        exists on the environmental condition of the land and waters 
        comprising the covered land.
            (2) Additional documentation.--The Tennessee Valley 
        Authority shall provide the Secretary with any additional 
        documentation and information regarding the environmental 
        condition of the covered land as such documentation and 
        information becomes available.

    (c) Action Required.--
            (1) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Tennessee Valley Authority shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 1900A-75]]

        provide to the Secretary an assessment indicating what action, 
        if any, is required under any environmental law on covered land.
            (2) Memorandum of understanding.--If the assessment 
        concludes that action is required under any environmental law 
        with respect to any portion of the covered land, the Secretary 
        and the Tennessee Valley Authority shall enter into a memorandum 
        of understanding that--
                    (A) provides for the performance by the Tennessee 
                Valley Authority of the required actions identified in 
                the assessment; and
                    (B) includes a schedule providing for the prompt 
                completion of the required actions to the satisfaction 
                of the Secretary.

    (d) Documentation Demonstrating Action.--The Tennessee Valley 
Authority shall provide the Secretary with documentation demonstrating 
that all actions required under any environmental law have been taken, 
including all response actions that are necessary to protect human 
health and the environment with respect to any hazardous substance, 
pollutant or contaminant, hazardous waste, hazardous material, or 
petroleum product or derivative of a petroleum product on covered land.
    (e) Continuation of Responsibilities and Liabilities.--
            (1) In general.--The transfer of covered land under this 
        Act, and the requirements of this section, shall not affect the 
        responsibilities and liabilities of the Tennessee Valley 
        Authority under any environmental law.
            (2) Access.--The Tennessee Valley Authority shall have 
        access to the property that may be reasonably required to carry 
        out a responsibility or satisfy a liability referred to in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may 
        require such additional terms and conditions in connection with 
        the transfer of covered land under this Act as the Secretary 
        considers to be appropriate to protect the interest of the 
        United States concerning the continuation of any 
        responsibilities and liabilities under any environmental law.
            (4) No effect on responsibilities or liabilities.--Nothing 
        in this Act affects, directly or indirectly, the 
        responsibilities or liabilities under any environmental law of 
        any person with respect to the Secretary.

    (f) Other Federal Agencies.--Subject to the other provisions of this 
section, a Federal agency that carried or carries out operations on 
covered land resulting in the release or threatened release of a 
hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant, hazardous waste, 
hazardous material, or petroleum product or derivative of a petroleum 
product for which that agency would be liable under any environmental 
law shall pay--
            (1) the costs of related response actions; and
            (2) the costs of related actions to remediate petroleum 
        products or their derivatives.