[106th Congress Public Law 35]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ035.106]

Public Law 106-35
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend the Omnibus Consolidated <<NOTE: June 15, 1999 -  [H.R. 
1379]>>  and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, to make a 
    technical correction relating to international narcotics control 
                               assistance.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Western 
Hemisphere Drug Elimination Technical Corrections Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Western Hemisphere Drug Elimination 
Technical Corrections Act''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS RELATING TO RESOURCES FOR 
            ILLICIT NARCOTICS IN CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Subtitle B of title VIII of 
division C of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 826. FURTHER MISCELLANEOUS ADDITIONAL RESOURCES.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of State for fiscal year 1999 such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2291).
    ``(b) Rule of Construction.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) are in addition to 
amounts made available to carry out section 481 of such Act under any 
other provision of law.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Title VIII of division C of such Act 
(Public Law 105-277) is amended in the table of contents in section 
801(b) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-693.>>  by adding at the end of the item 
relating to subtitle B the following:

``Sec. 826. Further miscellaneous additional resources.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in subtitle B of title VIII of division C of such 
Act (Public Law 105-277).

    Approved June 15, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1379:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Apr. 20, considered and passed House.
            May 27, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>