[106th Congress Public Law 131]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ131.106]


[[Page 1677]]

            GATEWAY VISITOR CENTER AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1999

[[Page 113 STAT. 1678]]

Public Law 106-131
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To authorize the Gateway Visitor Center at Independence National 
 Historical Park, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 7, 1999 -  [H.R. 
                                 449]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Gateway Visitor 
Center Authorization Act of 1999.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 407m note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Gateway Visitor Center Authorization 
Act of 1999''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 407m note.>>  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The National Park Service completed and approved in 1997 
        a general management plan for Independence National Historical 
        Park that establishes goals and priorities for the park's 
        future.
            (2) The general management plan for Independence National 
        Historical Park calls for the revitalization of Independence 
        Mall and recommends as a critical component of the Independence 
        Mall's revitalization the development of a new ``Gateway Visitor 
        Center''.
            (3) Such a visitor center would replace the existing park 
        visitor center and would serve as an orientation center for 
        visitors to the park and to city and regional attractions.
            (4) Subsequent to the completion of the general management 
        plan, the National Park Service undertook and completed a design 
        project and master plan for Independence Mall which includes the 
        Gateway Visitor Center.
            (5) Plans for the Gateway Visitor Center call for it to be 
        developed and managed, in cooperation with the Secretary of the 
        Interior, by a nonprofit organization which represents the 
        various public and civic interests of the greater Philadelphia 
        metropolitan area.
            (6) The Gateway Visitor Center Corporation, a nonprofit 
        organization, has been established to raise funds for and 
        cooperate in a program to design, develop, construct, and 
        operate the proposed Gateway Visitor Center.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to enter into a cooperative agreement with the Gateway 
Visitor Center Corporation to construct and operate a regional visitor 
center on Independence Mall.

SEC. 3. GATEWAY VISITOR CENTER AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Agreement.--The Secretary of the Interior, in administering the 
Independence National Historical Park, may enter into

[[Page 113 STAT. 1679]]

an agreement under appropriate terms and conditions with the Gateway 
Visitor Center Corporation (a nonprofit corporation established under 
the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) to facilitate the 
construction and operation of a regional Gateway Visitor Center on 
Independence Mall.
    (b) Operations of Center.--The Agreement shall authorize the 
Corporation to operate the Center in cooperation with the Secretary and 
to provide at the Center information, interpretation, facilities, and 
services to visitors to Independence National Historical Park, its 
surrounding historic sites, the City of Philadelphia, and the region, in 
order to assist in their enjoyment of the historic, cultural, 
educational, and recreational resources of the greater Philadelphia 
area.
    (c) Management-Related Activities.--The Agreement shall authorize 
the Secretary to undertake at the Center activities related to the 
management of Independence National Historical Park, including, but not 
limited to, provision of appropriate visitor information and 
interpretive facilities and programs related to Independence National 
Historical Park.
    (d) Activities of Corporation.--The Agreement shall authorize the 
Corporation, acting as a private nonprofit organization, to engage in 
activities appropriate for operation of a regional visitor center that 
may include, but are not limited to, charging fees, conducting events, 
and selling merchandise, tickets, and food to visitors to the Center.
    (e) Use of Revenues.--Revenues from activities engaged in by the 
Corporation shall be used for the operation and administration of the 
Center.
    (f ) Protection of Park.--Nothing in this section authorizes the 
Secretary or the Corporation to take any actions in derogation of the 
preservation and protection of the values and resources of Independence 
National Historical Park.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means an agreement 
        under this section between the Secretary and the Corporation.
            (2) Center.--The term ``Center'' means a Gateway Visitor 
        Center constructed and operated in accordance with the 
        Agreement.
            (3) Corporation.--The term ``Corporation'' means the Gateway 
        Visitor Center Corporation (a nonprofit corporation established 
        under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1680]]

            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

    Approved December 7, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 449:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-66 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-68 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Apr. 12, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>