[106th Congress Public Law 148]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ148.106]

Public Law 106-148
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To reauthorize and amend the National Geologic Mapping Act of 
              1992. <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 1528]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: National Geologic Mapping 
Reauthorization Act of 1999.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 43 USC 31a note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Geologic Mapping 
Reauthorization Act of 1999''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Section 2(a) of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31a(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (10);
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) geologic map information is required for the 
        sustainable and balanced development of natural resources of all 
        types, including energy, minerals, land, water, and biological 
        resources;
            ``(9) advances in digital technology and geographical 
        information system science have made geologic map databases 
        increasingly important as decision support tools for land and 
        resource management; and''; and
            (4) in paragraph (10) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by 
        inserting ``of surficial and bedrock deposits'' after ``geologic 
        mapping''.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31b) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as 
        paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (10), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Education component.--The term `education component' 
        means the education component of the geologic mapping program 
        described in section 6(d)(3).
            ``(5) Federal component.--The term `Federal component' means 
        the Federal component of the geologic mapping program described 
        in section 6(d)(1).''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
            ``(9) State component.--The term `State component' means the 
        State component of the geologic mapping program described in 
        section 6(d)(2).''.

SEC. 4. GEOLOGIC MAPPING PROGRAM.

    Section 4 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking 
                ``priorities'' and inserting ``national priorities and 
                standards for'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) by striking ``develop a geologic mapping 
                      program implementation plan'' and inserting 
                      ``develop a 5-year strategic plan for the geologic 
                      mapping program''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``within 300 days after the 
                      date of enactment of the National Geologic Mapping 
                      Reauthorization Act of 1997'' and inserting ``not 
                      later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
                      of the National Geologic Mapping Reauthorization 
                      Act of 1999'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``within 90 
                days after the date of enactment of the National 
                Geologic Mapping Reauthorization Act of 1997'' and 
                inserting ``not later than 1 year after the date of the 
                enactment of the National Geologic Mapping 
                Reauthorization Act of 1999''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (C)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                      striking ``within 210 days after the date of 
                      enactment of the National Geologic Mapping 
                      Reauthorization Act of 1997'' and inserting ``not 
                      later than 3 years after the date of the enactment 
                      of the National Geologic Mapping Reauthorization 
                      Act of 1999, and biennially thereafter'';
                          (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``will 
                      coordinate'' and inserting ``are coordinating'';
                          (iii) in clause (ii), by striking ``will 
                      establish'' and inserting ``establish''; and
                          (iv) in clause (iii), by striking ``will lead 
                      to'' and inserting ``affect''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:

    ``(d) Program Components.--
            ``(1) Federal component.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The geologic mapping program 
                shall include a Federal geologic mapping component, the 
                objective of which shall be to determine the geologic 
                framework of areas determined to be vital to the 
                economic, social, environmental, or scientific welfare 
                of the United States.
                    ``(B) Mapping priorities.--For the Federal 
                component, mapping priorities--
                          ``(i) shall be described in the 5-year plan 
                      under section 6; and
                          ``(ii) shall be based on--
                                    ``(I) national requirements for 
                                geologic map information in areas of 
                                multiple-issue need or areas of 
                                compelling single-issue need; and
                                    ``(II) national requirements for 
                                geologic map information in areas where 
                                mapping is required to solve critical 
                                earth science problems.
                    ``(C) Interdisciplinary studies.--
                          ``(i) In general.--The Federal component shall 
                      include interdisciplinary studies that add value 
                      to geologic mapping.
                          ``(ii) Representative categories.--
                      Interdisciplinary studies under clause (i) may 
                      include--
                                    ``(I) establishment of a national 
                                geologic map database under section 7;
                                    ``(II) studies that lead to the 
                                implementation of cost-effective digital 
                                methods for the acquisition, 
                                compilation, analysis, cartographic 
                                production, and dissemination of 
                                geologic map information;
                                    ``(III) paleontologic, geochrono-
                                logic, and isotopic investigations that 
                                provide information critical to 
                                understanding the age and history of 
                                geologic map units;
                                    ``(IV) geophysical investigations 
                                that assist in delineating and mapping 
                                the physical characteristics and 3-
                                dimensional distribution of geologic 
                                materials and geologic structures; and
                                    ``(V) geochemical investigations and 
                                analytical operations that characterize 
                                the composition of geologic map units.
                          ``(iii) Use of results.--The results of 
                      investigations under clause (ii) shall be 
                      contributed to national databases.
            ``(2) State component.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The geologic mapping program 
                shall include a State geologic mapping component, the 
                objective of which shall be to establish the geologic 
                framework of areas determined to be vital to the 
                economic, social, environmental, or scientific welfare 
                of individual States.
                    ``(B) Mapping priorities.--For the State component, 
                mapping priorities--
                          ``(i) shall be determined by State panels 
                      representing a broad range of users of geologic 
                      maps; and
                          ``(ii) shall be based on--
                                    ``(I) State requirements for 
                                geologic map information in areas of 
                                multiple-issue need or areas of 
                                compelling single-issue need; and
                                    ``(II) State requirements for 
                                geologic map information in areas where 
                                mapping is required to solve critical 
                                earth science problems.
                    ``(C) Integration of federal and state priorities.--
                A national panel including representatives of the Survey 
                shall integrate the State mapping priorities under this 
                paragraph with the Federal mapping priorities under 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(D) Use of funds.--The Survey and recipients of 
                grants under the State component shall not use more than 
                15.25 percent of the Federal funds made available under 
                the State component for any fiscal year to pay indirect, 
                servicing, or program management charges.
                    ``(E) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost 
                of activities under the State component for any fiscal 
                year shall not exceed 50 percent.
            ``(3) Education component.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The geologic mapping program 
                shall include a geologic mapping education component for 
                the training of geologic mappers, the objectives of 
                which shall be--
                          ``(i) to provide for broad education in 
                      geologic mapping and field analysis through 
                      support of field studies; and
                          ``(ii) to develop academic programs that teach 
                      students of earth science the fundamental 
                      principles of geologic mapping and field analysis.
                    ``(B) Investigations.--The education component may 
                include the conduct of investigations, which--
                          ``(i) shall be integrated with the Federal 
                      component and the State component; and
                          ``(ii) shall respond to mapping priorities 
                      identified for the Federal component and the State 
                      component.
                    ``(C) Use of funds.--The Survey and recipients of 
                grants under the education component shall not use more 
                than 15.25 percent of the Federal funds made available 
                under the education component for any fiscal year to pay 
                indirect, servicing, or program management charges.
                    ``(D) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost 
                of activities under the education component for any 
                fiscal year shall not exceed 50 percent.''.

SEC. 5. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    Section 5 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``90 days after the 
        date of enactment of the National Geologic Mapping 
        Reauthorization Act of 1997'' and inserting ``1 year after the 
        date of the enactment of the National Geologic Mapping 
        Reauthorization Act of 1999''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``critique the 
                draft implementation plan'' and inserting ``update the 
                5-year plan''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``this Act'' and 
                inserting ``sections 4 through 7''.

SEC. 6. GEOLOGIC MAPPING PROGRAM 5-YEAR PLAN.

    The National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 is amended by striking 
section 6 (43 U.S.C. 31e) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 43 USC 31e.>> GEOLOGIC MAPPING PROGRAM 5-YEAR PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director, 
shall, with the advice and review of the advisory committee, prepare a 
5-year plan for the geologic mapping program.
    ``(b) Requirements.--The 5-year plan shall identify--
            ``(1) overall priorities for the geologic mapping program; 
        and
            ``(2) implementation of the overall management structure and 
        operation of the geologic mapping program, including--
                    ``(A) the role of the Survey in the capacity of 
                overall management lead, including the responsibility 
                for developing the national geologic mapping program 
                that meets Federal needs while fostering State needs;
                    ``(B) the responsibilities of the State geological 
                surveys, with emphasis on mechanisms that incorporate 
                the needs, missions, capabilities, and requirements of 
                the State geological surveys, into the nationwide 
                geologic mapping program;
                    ``(C) mechanisms for identifying short- and long-
                term priorities for each component of the geologic 
                mapping program, including--
                          ``(i) for the Federal component, a priority-
                      setting mechanism that responds to--
                                    ``(I) Federal mission requirements 
                                for geologic map information;
                                    ``(II) critical scientific problems 
                                that require geologic maps for their 
                                resolution; and
                                    ``(III) shared Federal and State 
                                needs for geologic maps, in which joint 
                                Federal-State geologic mapping projects 
                                are in the national interest;
                          ``(ii) for the State component, a priority-
                      setting mechanism that responds to--
                                    ``(I) specific intrastate needs for 
                                geologic map information; and
                                    ``(II) interstate needs shared by 
                                adjacent States that have common 
                                requirements; and
                          ``(iii) for the education component, a 
                      priority-setting mechanism that responds to 
                      requirements for geologic map information that are 
                      dictated by Federal and State mission 
                      requirements;
                    ``(D) a mechanism for adopting scientific and 
                technical mapping standards for preparing and publishing 
                general- and special-purpose geologic maps to--
                          ``(i) ensure uniformity of cartographic and 
                      scientific conventions; and
                          ``(ii) provide a basis for assessing the 
                      comparability and quality of map products; and
                    ``(E) a mechanism for monitoring the inventory of 
                published and current mapping investigations nationwide 
                to facilitate planning and information exchange and to 
                avoid redundancy.''.

SEC. 7. NATIONAL GEOLOGIC MAP DATABASE.

    Section 7 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 
31f ) is amended by striking the section heading and all that follows 
through subsection (a) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 7. NATIONAL GEOLOGIC MAP DATABASE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Survey shall establish a national 
        geologic map database.
            ``(2) Function.--The database shall serve as a national 
        catalog and archive, distributed through links to Federal and 
        State geologic map holdings, that includes--
                    ``(A) all maps developed under the Federal component 
                and the education component;
                    ``(B) the databases developed in connection with 
                investigations under subclauses (III), (IV), and (V) of 
                section 4(d)(1)(C)(ii); and
                    ``(C) other maps and data that the Survey and the 
                Association consider appropriate.''.

SEC. 8. BIENNIAL REPORT.

    The National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 is amended by striking 
section 8 (43 U.S.C. 31g) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 43 USC 31g.>> BIENNIAL REPORT.

    ``Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later 3 years after the date of the 
enactment of the National Geologic Mapping Reauthorization Act of 1999 
and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that--
            ``(1) describes the status of the national geologic mapping 
        program;
            ``(2) describes and evaluates the progress achieved during 
        the preceding 2 years in developing the national geologic map 
        database; and
            ``(3) includes any recommendations that the Secretary may 
        have for legislative or other action to achieve the purposes of 
        sections 4 through 7.''.

SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 is amended by striking 
section 9 (43 U.S.C. 31h) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 9. <<NOTE: 43 USC 31h.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act--
            ``(1) $28,000,000 for fiscal year 1999;
            ``(2) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2000;
            ``(3) $37,000,000 for fiscal year 2001;
            ``(4) $43,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;
            ``(5) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            ``(6) $57,000,000 for fiscal year 2004; and
            ``(7) $64,000,000 for fiscal year 2005.

    ``(b) Allocation of Appropriations.--Of any amounts appropriated for 
any fiscal year in excess of the amount appropriated for fiscal year 
2000--
            ``(1) 48 percent shall be available for the State component; 
        and
            ``(2) 2 percent shall be available for the education 
        component.''.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1528 (S. 607):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-389 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-78 accompanying S. 607 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 26, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>