[106th Congress Public Law 346]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ346.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1356]]

Public Law 106-346
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
  agencies for <<NOTE: Oct. 23, 2000 -  [H.R. 4475]>>  the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, 
namely:
    Section 101. <<NOTE: Incoporation by reference.>>  (a) The 
provisions of the following bill are hereby enacted into law, H.R. 5394 
of the 106th Congress, as introduced on October 5, 2000.

    (b) <<NOTE: Publication. 1 USC 112 note.>> In publishing the Act in 
slip form and in the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to section 
112 of title 1, United States Code, the Archivist of the United States 
shall include after the date of approval at the end an appendix setting 
forth the text of the bill referred to in subsection (a) of this 
section.

    Approved October 23, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4475 (S. 2720):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-622 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-940 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-309 accompanying S. 2720 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            May 19, considered and passed House.
            June 14, 15, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 6, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Oct. 23, Presidential statement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ENDNOTE: The following appendix was added pursuant to the provisions 
of section 101 of this Act.

                                  <all>

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-1]]



                           APPENDIX--H.R. 5394

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Department of 
Transportation and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $63,245,000: 
Provided, That not more than 52 percent of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be obligated and not more than 224 full time 
equivalent staff years funded through the end of the second quarter of 
fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That funds in excess of 52 percent 
and 224 full time equivalent staff years shall be available only if the 
Secretary transmits a request to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations for these additional funds: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $60,000 for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine: 
Provided further, That not more than $15,000 of the official reception 
and representation funds shall be available for obligation prior to 
January 20, 2001.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $8,140,000.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $11,000,000.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$126,887,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-2]]

limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of 
the Department shall be transferred to the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center without the approval of the agency modal administrator: 
Provided further, That no assessments may be levied against any program, 
budget activity, subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice 
of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

                Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $13,775,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the guaranteed loan program, $400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center outreach 
activities, $3,000,000, of which $2,635,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these 
funds may be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare, $3,192,000,000, of which $341,000,000 shall be 
available for defense-related activities; and of which $25,000,000 shall 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be available 
for pay for administrative expenses in connection with shipping 
commissioners in the United States: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act shall be available for expenses incurred for 
yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the extent fees are 
collected from yacht owners and credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
Coast Guard to plan, finalize, or implement any regulation that would 
promulgate new maritime user fees not specifically authorized by law 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

               Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, and 
improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-3]]

and aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $415,000,000, of 
which $20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund; of which $156,450,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, 
renovate or improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to 
remain available until September 30, 2005; $37,650,000 shall be 
available to acquire new aircraft and increase aviation capability, to 
remain available until September 30, 2003; $60,113,000 shall be 
available for other equipment, to remain available until September 30, 
2003; $63,336,000 shall be available for shore facilities and aids to 
navigation facilities, to remain available until September 30, 2003; 
$55,151,000 shall be available for personnel compensation and benefits 
and related costs, to remain available until September 30, 2002; and 
$42,300,000 for the Integrated Deepwater Systems program, to remain 
available until September 30, 2003: Provided, That the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard is authorized to dispose of surplus real property, by sale 
or lease, and the proceeds shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and made available only for the National Distress 
and Response System Modernization program, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2003: Provided further, That upon initial 
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2002 President's budget, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress a 
comprehensive capital investment plan for the United States Coast Guard 
which includes funding for each budget line item for fiscal years 2002 
through 2006, with total funding for each year of the plan constrained 
to the funding targets for those years as estimated and approved by the 
Office of Management and Budget: Provided further, That the amount 
herein appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day 
after initial submission of the President's budget that the plan has not 
been submitted to the Congress: Provided further, That the Commandant 
shall transfer $5,800,000 to the City of Homer, Alaska, for the 
construction of a municipal pier and other harbor improvements, 
contingent upon the City of Homer entering into an agreement with the 
United States to accommodate Coast Guard vessels and to support Coast 
Guard operations at Homer, Alaska.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $16,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $15,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                               Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $778,000,000.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-4]]

                            Reserve Training

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized 
by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and supplies, 
equipment, and services, $80,375,000: Provided, That no more than 
$22,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Coast Guard to assess direct charges on the Coast 
Guard Reserves for items or activities which were not so charged during 
fiscal year 1997.

               Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $21,320,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to and used for the purposes 
of this appropriation funds received from State and local governments, 
other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries, for 
expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation.

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, 
lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, in 
addition to amounts made available by Public Law 104-264, 
$6,544,235,000, of which $4,414,869,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which $5,200,274,000 shall be 
available for air traffic services program activities; $694,979,000 
shall be available for aviation regulation and certification program 
activities; $139,301,400 shall be available for civil aviation security 
program activities; $189,988,000 shall be available for research and 
acquisition program activities; $12,000,000 shall be available for 
commercial space transportation program activities; $48,443,600 shall be 
available for Financial Services program activities; $54,864,000 shall 
be available for Human Resources program activities; $99,347,000 shall 
be available for Regional Coordination program activities; and 
$105,038,000 shall be available for Staff Offices program activities: 
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
Federal Aviation Administration to plan, finalize, or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically 
authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this Act: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-5]]

appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, 
and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including 
airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related 
thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration forms: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $5,000,000 shall be for the contract tower cost-sharing program and 
not less than $750,000 shall be for the Centennial of Flight Commission: 
Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a grant agreement 
with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to assist in the 
development of aviation safety standards: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act shall be available for new applicants for the 
second career training program: Provided further, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for paying premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 
5546(a) to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to operate a manned auxiliary flight service 
station in the contiguous United States: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act may be used for the Federal Aviation 
Administration to enter into a multiyear lease greater than 5 years in 
length or greater than $100,000,000 in value unless such lease is 
specifically authorized by the Congress and appropriations have been 
provided to fully cover the Federal Government's contingent liabilities: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical 
charting and cartography are available for activities conducted by, or 
coordinated through, the Transportation Administrative Service Center.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, 
establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air 
navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as authorized under 
part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including 
initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering 
and service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under this 
head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,656,765,000, of which $2,334,112,400 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2003, and of which $322,652,600 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2001: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities: 
Provided further, That upon initial submission to the Congress of the 
fiscal year 2002 President's budget, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall transmit to the Congress a comprehensive capital investment plan

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-6]]

for the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2002 through 2006, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: 
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after initial submission of the 
President's budget that the plan has not been submitted to the Congress: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
Federal Aviation Administration to enter into a capital lease agreement 
unless appropriations have been provided to fully cover the Federal 
Government's contingent liabilities at the time the lease agreement is 
signed.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII 
of title 49, United States Code, including construction of experimental 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
$187,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until September 30, 2003: Provided, That there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for administration of such programs; for 
administration of programs under section 40117; for procurement, 
installation, and commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices 
and systems at airports; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,200,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,200,000,000 in fiscal year 2001, notwithstanding section 47117(h) of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not more than $53,000,000 of funds limited under 
this heading shall be obligated for administration.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-7]]

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 49 U.S.C. 48103, as 
amended, $579,000,000 are rescinded.

                    Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                  Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration not to exceed $295,119,000 shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, 
That of the funds available under section 104(a) of title 23, United 
States Code: $4,000,000 shall be available for Commercial Remote Sensing 
Products and Spatial Information Technologies under section 5113 of 
Public Law 105-178, as amended; $10,000,000 shall be available for the 
National Historic Covered Bridge Preservation Program under section 1224 
of Public Law 105-178, as amended; $5,000,000 shall be available for the 
construction and improvement of the Alabama State Docks, and shall 
remain available until expended; $10,000,000 shall be available to 
Auburn University for research activities at the Center for 
Transportation Technology and to construct a building to house the 
center, and shall remain available until expended; $7,500,000 shall be 
available for ``Child Passenger Protection Education Grants'' under 
section 2003(b) of Public Law 105-178, as amended; and $25,000,000 shall 
be available for the Transportation and Community and System 
Preservation Program under section 1221 of Public Law 105-178, as 
amended.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs, the obligations for which are 
in excess of $29,661,806,000 for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction programs for fiscal year 2001: Provided, That within the 
$29,661,806,000 obligation limitation on Federal-aid highways and 
highway safety construction programs, not more than $437,250,000 shall 
be available for the implementation or

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-8]]

execution of programs for transportation research (sections 502, 503, 
504, 506, 507, and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; 
section 5505 of title 49, United States Code, as amended; and sections 
5112 and 5204-5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2001; not more 
than $25,000,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs for the Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology 
Deployment Program (section 1218 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 
2001, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available to the 
Federal Railroad Administration for administrative expenses and 
technical assistance in connection with such program, of which not to 
exceed $1,500,000 shall be available to the Federal Railroad 
Administration for ``Safety and operations'', and, notwithstanding 
section 1218(c)(4) of Public Law 105-178, of which $1,000,000 shall be 
available for low speed magnetic levitation research and development; 
not more than $31,000,000 shall be available for the implementation or 
execution of programs for the Bureau of Transportation Statistics 
(section 111 of title 49, United States Code) for fiscal year 2001: 
Provided further, That within the $218,000,000 obligation limitation on 
Intelligent Transportation Systems, the following sums shall be made 
available for Intelligent Transportation System projects in the 
following specified areas:
            State of Alaska, $2,350,000;
            Alameda-Contra Costa, California, $500,000;
            Aquidneck Island, Rhode Island, $500,000;
            Austin, Texas, $250,000;
            Automated crash notification system, UAB, $1,000,000;
            Baton Rouge, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            Bay County, Florida, $1,500,000;
            Beaumont, Texas, $150,000;
            Bellingham, Washington, $350,000;
            Bloomington Township, Illinois, $400,000;
            Calhoun County, Michigan, $750,000;
            Carbondale, Pennsylvania, $2,000,000;
            Cargo Mate, New Jersey, $750,000;
            Charlotte, North Carolina, $625,000;
            College Station, Texas, $1,800,000;
            Commonwealth of Virginia, $5,500,000;
            Corpus Christi, Texas (vehicle dispatching), $1,000,000;
            Delaware River Port Authority, $1,250,000;
            DuPage County, Illinois, $500,000;
            Fargo, North Dakota, $1,000,000;
            Fort Collins, Colorado, $1,250,000;
            Hattiesburg, Mississippi, $500,000;
            Huntington Beach, California, $1,250,000;
            Huntsville, Alabama, $3,000,000;
            I-70 West project, Colorado, $750,000;
            Inglewood, California, $600,000;
            Jackson, Mississippi, $1,000,000;
            Jefferson County, Colorado, $4,250,000;
            Johnsonburg, Pennsylvania, $1,500,000;
            Kansas City, Missouri, $1,250,000;
            Lake County, Illinois, $450,000;
            Lewis & Clark Trail, Montana, $625,000;
            Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, $2,000,000;
            Moscow, Idaho, $875,000;
            Muscle Shoals, Alabama, $1,000,000;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-9]]

            Nashville, Tennessee, $500,000;
            New Jersey regional integration/TRANSCOM, $3,000,000;
            North Central Pennsylvania, $750,000;
            North Las Vegas, Nevada, $1,800,000;
            Norwalk and Santa Fe Springs, California, $500,000;
            Oakland and Wayne Counties, Michigan, $1,500,000;
            Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $1,500,000;
            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, $500,000;
            Puget Sound regional fare collection, Washington, 
        $2,500,000;
            Rensselaer County, New York, $500,000;
            Rochester, New York, $1,500,000;
            Sacramento County, California, $875,000;
            Sacramento to Reno, I-80 corridor, $100,000;
            Sacramento, California, $500,000;
            Salt Lake City (Olympic Games), Utah, $1,000,000;
            San Antonio, Texas, $100,000;
            Santa Teresa, New Mexico, $500,000;
            Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, $400,000;
            Seabrook, Texas, $1,200,000;
            Shreveport, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            South Dakota commercial vehicle, ITS, $1,250,000;
            Southeast Michigan, $500,000;
            Southhaven, Mississippi, $150,000;
            Spokane County, Washington, $1,000,000;
            Springfield-Branson, Missouri, $750,000;
            St. Louis, Missouri, $500,000;
            State of Arizona, $1,000,000;
            State of Connecticut, $3,000,000;
            State of Delaware, $1,000,000;
            State of Illinois, $1,000,000;
            State of Indiana (SAFE-T), $1,000,000;
            State of Iowa (traffic enforcement and transit), $2,750,000;
            State of Kentucky, $1,500,000;
            State of Maryland, $3,000,000;
            State of Minnesota, $6,500,000;
            State of Missouri (rural), $750,000;
            State of Montana, $750,000;
            State of Nebraska, $2,600,000;
            State of New Mexico, $750,000;
            State of North Carolina, $1,500,000;
            State of North Dakota, $500,000;
            State of Ohio, $2,000,000;
            State of Oklahoma, $1,000,000;
            State of Oregon, $750,000;
            State of South Carolina statewide, $2,000,000;
            State of Tennessee, $1,850,000;
            State of Utah, $1,500,000;
            State of Vermont, $500,000;
            State of Wisconsin, $1,000,000;
            Texas border phase I, Houston, Texas, $500,000;
            Tuscaloosa, Alabama, $2,000,000;
            Tuscon, Arizona, $1,250,000;
            Vermont rural ITS, $1,500,000;
            Washington, DC area, $1,250,000;
            Washoe County, Nevada, $200,000;
            Wayne County, Michigan, $5,000,000;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-10]]

            Williamson County/Round Rock, Texas, $250,000:

Provided further, That, notwithstanding Public Law 105-178, as amended, 
funds authorized under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2001 shall be apportioned based on each State's percentage 
share of funding provided for under section 105 of title 23, United 
States Code, for fiscal year 2001, except that before such 
apportionments are made, $156,486,491 shall be set aside for projects 
authorized under section 1602 of Public Law 105-178, as amended; 
$25,000,000 shall be set aside for the Indian Reservation Roads Program 
under section 204 of title 23, United States Code; $18,467,857 shall be 
set aside for the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge project authorized by 
section 404 of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, 
as amended; $10,000,000 shall be set aside for the commercial driver's 
license program under motor carrier safety grants authorized by section 
31102 of title 49, United States Code; and $1,735,039 shall be set aside 
for the Alaska Highway authorized by section 218 of title 23, United 
States Code. Of the funds to be apportioned under section 110 for fiscal 
year 2001, the Secretary shall ensure that such funds are apportioned 
for the Interstate Maintenance program, the National Highway system 
program, the bridge program, the surface transportation program, and the 
congestion mitigation and air quality program in the same ratio that 
each State is apportioned funds for such program in fiscal year 2001 but 
for this section: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, of the funds apportioned to the State of Oklahoma under section 110 
of title 23, United States Code, for fiscal year 2001, $8,000,000 shall 
be available only for the widening of U.S. 177 from SH-33 to 32nd Street 
in Stillwater, Oklahoma; $4,300,000 shall be available only for the 
reconstruction of U.S. 177 in the vicinity of Cimarron River, Oklahoma; 
$1,500,000 shall be available only for the reconstruction of US 70 from 
Broken Bow, Oklahoma to the Arkansas State line; $1,000,000 shall be 
available only to improve Battiest-Pickens Road between Battiest and 
Pickens, Oklahoma; $140,000 shall be available only to conduct a 
feasibility study of increasing lanes or adding passing lanes on SH 3 in 
McCurtain, Pushmataha, and Atoka counties, Oklahoma; and $100,000 shall 
be available only for the reconstruction of U.S. 70 in Marshall and 
Bryan counties, Oklahoma: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of the funds apportioned to the State of 
Mississippi under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2001, $24,600,000 may be available for construction of an 
interchange for a connector road from the interchange to U.S. Highway 
51, between mile markers 115 and 120 on I-55 in Mississippi: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
apportioned to the State of New York under section 110 of title 23, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2001, $4,000,000 shall be available 
only to upgrade and improve the Albany to North Creek intermodal 
transportation corridor: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of the funds apportioned to the State of 
Nebraska under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2001, $3,500,000 shall be available only for the construction of a 
pedestrian overpass in Lincoln: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, of the funds apportioned to the State of 
Alabama under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2001, $8,000,000 shall be

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-11]]

available only for construction of the Patton Island bridge in 
Lauderdale County, Alabama: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, of the funds apportioned to the State of 
California under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2001, $46,000,000 shall be available only for traffic mitigation 
and other improvements to existing SR 710 in South Pasadena, Pasadena 
and El Serano: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the obligation limitation distributed for specific 
projects described herein shall remain available until expended and 
shall be in addition to the amount of any obligation limitation imposed 
on obligations for Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction 
programs for future fiscal years.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for carrying out the 
provisions of title 23, United States Code, that are attributable to 
Federal-aid highways, including the National Scenic and Recreational 
Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not otherwise provided, 
including reimbursement for sums expended pursuant to the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 308, $28,000,000,000 or so much thereof as may be available in 
and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                        Emergency Relief Program

                          (highway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for the Emergency Relief Program for 
emergency expenses resulting from floods and other natural disasters, as 
authorized by section 125 of title 23, United States Code, $720,000,000, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for $720,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

               FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                          motor carrier safety

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses for administration of motor carrier safety 
programs and motor carrier safety research, pursuant to section 104(a) 
of title 23, United States Code, not to exceed $92,194,000 shall be paid 
in accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act 
and from any available take-down balances to the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-12]]

together with advances and reimbursements received by the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration: Provided, That such amounts shall be 
available to carry out the functions and operations of the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration.

                  National Motor Carrier Safety Program

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102, 
$177,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $177,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants''.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                         Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 
49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United 
States Code, $116,876,000 of which $85,321,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2003: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, finalize, or implement 
any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of title 49 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining to a grading standard 
that is different from the three grading standards (treadwear, traction, 
and temperature resistance) already in effect: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this Act may be obligated or expended 
to purchase a vehicle to conduct New Car Assessment Program crash 
testing at a price that exceeds the manufacturer's suggested retail 
price, unless the Secretary submits a request for a waiver that is 
approved by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the Department of Transportation shall fund a study with 
the National Academy of Sciences on whether the static stability factor 
is a scientifically valid measurement that presents practical, useful 
information to the public including a comparison of the static stability 
factor test versus a test with rollover metrics based on dynamic driving 
conditions that may induce rollover events: Provided further, That 
nothing in this provision prohibits NHTSA from completing action on its 
proposal to provide rollover rating information to the public while the 
National Academy of Sciences conducts this study: Provided further, That 
to the extent NHTSA continues action on its rollover ratings proposal 
during the study, the agency shall consider any available preliminary 
deliberations or conclusions available from the National Academy of 
Sciences before completing action on its proposal, and shall consider 
coordinating any final action on its proposal with the completion of the 
National Academy of Sciences study: Provided further, That the National 
Academy of Sciences shall complete this study and issue a report to the 
House and Senate Committees

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-13]]

on Appropriations not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That after the National Academy of Sciences 
submits its findings to the Congress and the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration, the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration shall formally review and respond within 30 days to the 
study findings and propose any appropriate revisions to the consumer 
information program based on that review.

                         Operations and Research

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2001, are in excess of 
$72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

                        National Driver Register

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                      Highway Traffic Safety Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, $213,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2001, are in excess of 
$213,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 
411 of which $155,000,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 
23 U.S.C. 402, $13,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant Protection Incentive 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, $36,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410, and 
$9,000,000 shall be for the ``State Highway Safety Data Grants'' under 
23 U.S.C. 411: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or 
structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $7,750,000 of the funds 
made available for section 402, not to

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-14]]

exceed $650,000 of the funds made available for section 405, not to 
exceed $1,800,000 of the funds made available for section 410, and not 
to exceed $450,000 of the funds made available for section 411 shall be 
available to NHTSA for administering highway safety grants under chapter 
4 of title 23, United States Code: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$500,000 of the funds made available for section 410 ``Alcohol-Impaired 
Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be available for technical 
assistance to the States.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                          Safety and Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $101,717,000, of which $5,899,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That, as part of the Washington 
Union Station transaction in which the Secretary assumed the first deed 
of trust on the property and, where the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation or any successor is obligated to make payments on such deed 
of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including payments on and after 
September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to receive such payments 
directly from the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation, credit them 
to the appropriation charged for the first deed of trust, and make 
payments on the first deed of trust with those funds: Provided further, 
That such additional sums as may be necessary for payment on the first 
deed of trust may be advanced by the Administrator from unobligated 
balances available to the Federal Railroad Administration, to be 
reimbursed from payments received from the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation.

                    Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$25,325,000, to remain available until expended.

             Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to section 
512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times as 
may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee 
of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of 
such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 502 of 
such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan guarantee commitments 
shall be made using Federal funds for the credit risk premium during 
fiscal year 2001.

                      Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$17,000,000 to be matched by the State of Rhode

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-15]]

Island or its designee on a dollar-for-dollar basis and to remain 
available until expended.

                     Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 26101 and 26102, $25,100,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $20,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations, to remain available 
until expended.

                     West Virginia Rail Development

    For capital costs associated with track, signal, and crossover 
rehabilitation and improvements on the MARC Brunswick line in West 
Virginia, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

      Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 24104(a), 
$521,476,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary shall not obligate more than $208,590,000 prior to September 
30, 2001.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $12,800,000: Provided, That no more than $64,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That of the funds in this Act available for the execution of 
contracts under section 5327(c) of title 49, United States Code, 
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the Department of Transportation's 
Office of Inspector General for costs associated with the audit and 
review of new fixed guideway systems: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500,000 for the National Transit Database shall remain 
available until expended.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $669,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,345,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds provided under this 
heading, $60,000,000 shall be available for grants for the costs of 
planning, delivery, and temporary use of transit vehicles for special 
transportation needs and construction of temporary transportation 
facilities for the XIX Winter Olympiad and the VIII Paralympiad for the 
Disabled, to be held in Salt Lake City, Utah:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-16]]

Provided further, That in allocating the funds designated in the 
preceding proviso, the Secretary shall make grants only to the Utah 
Department of Transportation, and such grants shall not be subject to 
any local share requirement or limitation on operating assistance under 
this Act or the Federal Transit Act, as amended: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 3008 of Public Law 105-178, the $50,000,000 to 
carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308 shall be transferred to and merged with funding 
provided for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and 
related equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities under 
``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants''.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                      Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $22,200,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $110,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)), $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315), 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)), $52,113,600 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305), $10,886,400 is available for 
State planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $29,500,000 is available for the 
national planning and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314).

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $5,016,600,000, to remain available until expended, and to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That $2,676,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$87,800,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
transit planning and research account: Provided further, That 
$51,200,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
administrative expenses account: Provided further, That $4,800,000 shall 
be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation research account: Provided further, That $80,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job access and 
reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That $2,116,800,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's capital investment 
grants account.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-17]]

                        Capital Investment Grants

                       including transfer of funds

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $529,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $2,646,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, there shall be available for fixed guideway 
modernization, $1,058,400,000; there shall be available for the 
replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related equipment 
and the construction of bus-related facilities, $529,200,000, together 
with $50,000,000 transferred from ``Federal Transit Administration, 
Formula grants''; and there shall be available for new fixed guideway 
systems $1,058,400,000, together with $4,983,828 made available for the 
Pittsburgh airport busway project under Public Law 105-66, together with 
$1,488,750 made available for the Burlington to Gloucester, New Jersey 
line under Public Law 103-331, together with $20,521,470 previously 
appropriated for the Orlando Lynx light rail project remaining 
unobligated as of or deobligated after September 30, 2000; to be 
available as follows:
            $10,400,000 for Alaska or Hawaii ferry projects;
            $500,000 for the Albuquerque/Greater Albuquerque mass 
        transit project;
            $25,000,000 for the Atlanta, Georgia, North line extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Austin, Texas, capital metro light rail 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Baltimore central LRT double track 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the Birmingham, Alabama, transit corridor;
            $25,000,000 for the Boston South Boston Piers transitway 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Boston Urban Ring project;
            $2,000,000 for the Burlington-Bennington (ABRB), Vermont, 
        commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Calais, Maine, branch line regional 
        transit program;
            $2,000,000 for the Canton-Akron-Cleveland commuter rail 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Central Florida commuter rail project;
            $5,000,000 for the Charlotte, North Carolina, north corridor 
        and south corridor transitway projects;
            $35,000,000 for the Chicago METRA commuter rail projects;
            $15,000,000 for the Chicago Ravenswood and Douglas branch 
        reconstruction projects;
            $1,500,000 for the Clark County, Nevada, RTC fixed guideway 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Cleveland Euclid corridor improvement 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Colorado Roaring Fork Valley project;
            $70,000,000 for the Dallas north central light rail 
        extension project;
            $3,000,000 for the Denver Southeast corridor project;
            $20,200,000 for the Denver Southwest corridor project;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-18]]

            $500,000 for the Detroit, Michigan, metropolitan airport 
        light rail project;
            $50,000,000 for the Dulles corridor project;
            $15,000,000 for the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Tri-County 
        commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Galveston, Texas, rail trolley extension 
        project;
            $15,000,000 for the Girdwood to Wasilla, Alaska, commuter 
        rail project;
            $500,000 for the Harrisburg-Lancaster capital area transit 
        corridor 1 commuter rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Hollister/Gilroy branch line rail 
        extension project;
            $2,500,000 for Honolulu, Hawaii, bus rapid transit project;
            $2,500,000 for the Houston advanced transit project;
            $10,750,000 for the Houston regional bus project;
            $3,000,000 for the Indianapolis, Indiana, northeast-downtown 
        corridor project;
            $1,000,000 for the Johnson County, Kansas, I-35 commuter 
        rail project;
            $3,500,000 for Kansas City, Missouri, Southtown corridor 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee rail extension 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Little Rock, Arkansas, river rail 
        project;
            $8,000,000 for the Long Island Railroad East Side access 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Los Angeles Mid-City and East Side 
        corridors projects;
            $50,000,000 for the Los Angeles North Hollywood extension 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Los Angeles-San Diego LOSSAN corridor 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Lowell, Massachusetts-Nashua, New 
        Hampshire commuter rail project;
            $10,000,000 for the MARC expansion projects--Penn-Camden 
        lines connector and midday storage facility;
            $1,000,000 for the Massachusetts North Shore corridor 
        project;
            $6,000,000 for the Memphis, Tennessee, Medical Center rail 
        extension project;
            $6,000,000 for the Nashville, Tennessee, regional commuter 
        rail project;
            $121,000,000 for the New Jersey Hudson Bergen project;
            $7,000,000 for the Newark-Elizabeth rail link project;
            $2,000,000 for the Northern Indiana south shore commuter 
        rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Northwest New Jersey-Northeast 
        Pennsylvania passenger rail project;
            $10,000,000 for the Oceanside-Escondido, California, light 
        rail extension project;
            $2,000,000 for the Orange County, California, transitway 
        project;
            $10,000,000 for the Philadelphia-Reading SETPA Schuylkill 
        Valley metro project;
            $2,000,000 for the Philadelphia SEPTA Cross County metro 
        project;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-19]]

            $10,000,000 for the Phoenix metropolitan area transit 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the Pittsburgh North Shore-central business 
        district corridor project;
            $12,000,000 for the Pittsburgh stage II light rail project;
            $7,500,000 for the Portland-Interstate MAX LRT extension 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Portland, Maine, marine highway program;
            $5,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Sounder commuter rail 
        project;
            $10,000,000 for the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Triangle 
        transit project;
            $500,000 for the Rhode Island-Pawtucket and T.F. Green 
        commuter rail and maintenance facility;
            $35,200,000 for the Sacramento, California, south corridor 
        LRT project;
            $2,000,000 for the Salt Lake City-University light rail line 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the San Bernardino, California, Metrolink 
        project;
            $31,500,000 for the San Diego Mission Valley East light rail 
        project;
            $80,000,000 for the San Francisco BART extension to the 
        airport project;
            $12,250,000 for the San Jose Tasman West light rail project;
            $75,000,000 for the San Juan Tren Urbano project;
            $1,500,000 for the Santa Fe-Eldorado, New Mexico, rail link 
        project;
            $50,000,000 for the Seattle, Washington, central link LRT 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Spokane, Washington, South Valley 
        corridor light rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the St. Louis, Missouri, MetroLink Cross 
        County connector project;
            $60,000,000 for the St. Louis-St. Clair MetroLink extension 
        project;
            $8,000,000 for the Stamford, Connecticut, fixed guideway 
        corridor;
            $6,000,000 for the Stockton, California, Altamont commuter 
        rail project;
            $5,000,000 for the Twin Cities Transitways projects;
            $50,000,000 for the Twin Cities Transitways--Hiawatha 
        corridor project;
            $3,000,000 for the Virginia Railway Express commuter rail 
        project;
            $7,500,000 for the Washington Metro-Blue Line extension-
        Addison Road (Largo) project;
            $2,000,000 for the West Trenton, New Jersey, rail project;
            $2,500,000 for the Whitehall and St. George ferry terminal 
        projects;
            $5,000,000 for the Wilmington, Delaware, downtown transit 
        corridor project; and
            $1,000,000 for the Wilsonville to Washington County, Oregon, 
        commuter rail project:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-20]]

Provided further, That any funds previously appropriated for the Miami-
Dade Transit east-west multimodal corridor project and the Miami Metro-
Dade North 27th Avenue corridor project remaining unobligated as of or 
deobligated after September 30, 2000, are to be made available for the 
South Miami-Dade Busway Extension project: Provided further, That funds 
made available under the heading ``Capital investment grants'' in 
division A, section 101(g) of Public Law 105-277 for the ``Colorado-
North Front Range corridor feasibility study'' are to be made available 
for ``Colorado-Eagle Airport to Avon light rail system feasibility 
study''; and that funds made available in Public Law 106-69 under 
``Capital investment grants'' for buses and bus-related facilities that 
were designated for projects numbered 14 and 20 shall be made available 
to the State of Alabama for buses and bus-related facilities.

                          Discretionary Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of previous 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5338(b), $350,000,000, to 
remain available until expended and to be derived from the Mass Transit 
Account of the Highway Trust Fund.

                  Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    Notwithstanding section 3037(l)(3) of Public Law 105-178, as 
amended, for necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $100,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes: Provided further, That up to $250,000 of 
the funds provided under this heading may be used by the Federal Transit 
Administration for technical assistance and support and performance 
reviews of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants program.

              SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

              Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

                     (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-21]]

$13,004,000, to be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, 
pursuant to Public Law 99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                      Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $36,373,000, of which $645,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $4,707,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2003: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred for training, for reports publication and 
dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred in performance of 
hazardous materials exemptions and approvals functions.

                             Pipeline Safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline 
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $47,044,000, 
of which $7,488,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 2003; of which 
$36,556,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of which 
$23,837,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2003; and of 
which $3,000,000 shall be derived from amounts previously collected 
under 49 U.S.C. 60301: Provided, That amounts previously collected under 
49 U.S.C. 60301 shall be available for damage prevention grants to 
States.

                      Emergency Preparedness Grants

                      (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2003: Provided, That not more than $14,300,000 shall 
be made available for obligation in fiscal year 2001 from amounts made 
available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d): Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall be 
made available for obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of 
Transportation, or his designee.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-22]]

                       OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$48,450,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3) to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of 
title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and 
unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air carriers and 
ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $17,954,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $900,000 
from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface Transportation 
Board shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections 
and used for necessary and authorized expenses under this heading: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund 
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2001, to result in a final 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at no more than 
$17,054,000.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $4,795,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-23]]

not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-
5902) $62,942,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2001 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. Hereafter, funds appropriated under this or any other Act 
for expenditures by the Federal Aviation Administration shall be 
available: (1) except as otherwise authorized by title VIII of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), 
for expenses of primary and secondary schooling for dependents of 
Federal Aviation Administration personnel stationed outside the 
continental United States at costs for any given area not in excess of 
those of the Department of Defense for the same area, when it is 
determined by the Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the 
locality are unable to provide adequately for the education of such 
dependents; and (2) for transportation of said dependents between 
schools serving the area that they attend and their places of residence 
when the Secretary, under such regulations as may be prescribed, 
determines that such schools are not accessible by public means of 
transportation on a regular basis.
    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 104 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision or political and Presidential 
appointees in an independent agency funded in this Act may be assigned 
on temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation or such 
independent agency.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 308. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-24]]

record and available for public inspection, except where otherwise 
provided under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued 
pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 309. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act shall 
disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(3)) 
obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection with a 
motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as provided 
in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) 18 U.S.C. 2725 is amended by: In paragraph (2) striking the word 
``and''; and inserting after paragraph 3:
            ``(4) `highly restricted personal information' means an 
        individual's photograph or image, social security number, 
        medical or disability information; and
            ``(5) `express consent' means consent in writing, including 
        consent conveyed electronically that bears an electronic 
        signature as defined in section 106(5) of Public Law 106-229.''.

    (c) 18 U.S.C. 2721(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--A State department of motor vehicles, and any 
officer, employee, or contractor thereof, shall not knowingly disclose 
or otherwise make available to any person or entity:
            ``(1) personal information, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(3), 
        about any individual obtained by the department in connection 
        with a motor vehicle record, except as provided in subsection 
        (b) of this section; or
            ``(2) highly restricted personal information, as defined in 
        18 U.S.C. 2725(4), about any individual obtained by the 
        department in connection with a motor vehicle record, without 
        the express consent of the person to whom such information 
        applies, except uses permitted in subsections (b)(1), (b)(4), 
        (b)(6), and (b)(9): Provided, That subsection (a)(2) shall not 
        in any way affect the use of organ donation information on an 
        individual's driver's license or affect the administration of 
        organ donation initiatives in the States.''.

    (d) 18 U.S.C. 2721(b) is amended by inserting before ``may be 
disclosed'' ``, subject to subsection (a)(2),''.
    (e) 18 U.S.C. 2721 is amended by inserting after subsection (d):
    ``(e) Prohibition on Conditions.--No State may condition or burden 
in any way the issuance of an individual's motor vehicle record as 
defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1) to obtain express consent. Nothing in this 
paragraph shall be construed to prohibit a State from charging an 
administrative fee for issuance of a motor vehicle record.''.
    (f ) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 310. (a) For fiscal year 2001, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        and paragraph (7) of this section, for the highway use tax 
        evasion program, and amounts provided under section 110 of title 
        23,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-25]]

        United States Code, excluding $128,752,000 pursuant to 
        subsection (e) of section 110 of title 23, as amended, and for 
        the Bureau of Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
                construction programs (other than sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for sections set forth in paragraphs (1) 
                through (7) of subsection (b) and sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for section 105 of title 23, United States 
                Code, equal to the amount referred to in subsection 
                (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the aggregate of the 
                amounts not distributed under paragraph (1) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 117 of title 23, United States 
        Code (relating to high priority projects program), section 201 
        of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, the Woodrow 
        Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, and $2,000,000,000 
        for such fiscal year under section 105 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to minimum guarantee) so that the amount 
        of obligation authority available for each of such sections is 
        equal to the amount determined by multiplying the ratio 
        determined under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be 
        appropriated for such section (except in the case of section 
        105, $2,000,000,000) for such fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by the 
        Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined under 
        paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
        program for such fiscal year;
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for the 
        minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-26]]

                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year; and
            (7) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, after 
        determining the amount of funds to be allocated to the surface 
        transportation program, to the bridge program, to the congestion 
        mitigation and air quality improvement program, and to the 
        Interstate and National Highway System program, under section 
        110 of title 23, United States Code, deduct a sum, in an amount 
        not to exceed 1\1/6\ percent of the sum made available to each 
        program, to administer the provisions of law to be financed from 
        appropriations for the Federal-aid highways program.

    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations: (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 147 
of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under section 
9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 131(b) and 
131( j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; (5) under 
sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and Uniform 
Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under sections 1103 through 1108 
of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991; (7) 
under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in effect on the 
day before the date of the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 23, United 
States Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for such 
fiscal year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 1015 of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapter 5 of title 
23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made available 
for such programs under such limitation shall remain available for a 
period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the distribution of obligation limitation under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds: 
(1) that are authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year for 
Federal-aid highways programs (other than the program under section 160 
of title 23, United States Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and highway-related 
programs under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code; and (2) that 
the Secretary determines will not be allocated to the States, and will 
not be available for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-27]]

obligation, in such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation 
limitation for such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall 
be made in the same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority 
under subsection (a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for 
any purposes described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States 
Code.
    (f ) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) of this section for a section set forth in 
subsection (a)(4) shall remain available until used and shall be in 
addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs for future 
fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 49 
U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any other 
authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel traffic 
safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara 
Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation 
Scheme.
    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, airports may 
transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) instrument landing systems (along with associated approach 
lighting equipment and runway visual range equipment) which conform to 
FAA design and performance specifications, the purchase of which was 
assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, airport development aid 
program or airport improvement program grant. The Federal Aviation 
Administration shall accept such equipment, which shall thereafter be 
operated and maintained by FAA in accordance with agency criteria.
    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that: (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in excess 
of $10,000,000 in any 1 year of the contract; (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's 
liability; or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and subsequent years of the contract 
without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds: 
Provided, That this limitation does not apply to a contract in which the 
Federal Government incurs no financial liability from not buying 
additional systems, subsystems, or components beyond the basic contract 
requirements.
    Sec. 316. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except for 
fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this Act 
under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' for 
projects specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying 
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2003, and other recoveries, 
shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 5309.
    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2000, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-28]]

for expenditure may be transferred to and administered under the most 
recent appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 318. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate in 
excess of 335 technical staff-years under the federally funded research 
and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2001.
    Sec. 319. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited respectively 
to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' 
account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Transit Planning and 
Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad Administration's 
``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State rail safety 
inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 320. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
prepare, propose, or promulgate any regulations pursuant to title V of 
the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (49 U.S.C. 32901 et 
seq.) prescribing corporate average fuel economy standards for 
automobiles, as defined in such title, in any model year that differs 
from standards promulgated for such automobiles prior to the enactment 
of this section.
    Sec. 321. Funds made available for Alaska or Hawaii ferry boats or 
ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be 
used to construct new vessels and facilities, or to improve existing 
vessels and facilities, including both the passenger and vehicle-related 
elements of such vessels and facilities, and for repair facilities: 
Provided, That not more than $3,000,000 of the funds made available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be used by the State of Hawaii 
to initiate and operate a passenger ferryboat services demonstration 
project to test the viability of different intra-island and inter-island 
ferry routes.
    Sec. 322. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited to 
the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall be subject to 
the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 323. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended 
for employee training which: (a) does not meet identified needs for 
knowledge, skills and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
official duties; (b) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
emotional response or psychological stress in some participants; (c) 
does not require prior employee notification of the content and methods 
to be used in the training and written end of course evaluations; (d) 
contains any methods or content associated with religious or quasi-
religious belief systems or ``new age'' belief systems as defined in 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
September 2, 1988; (e) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or (f 
) includes content related to human immunodeficiency virus/acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than that necessary to make 
employees

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-29]]

more aware of the medical ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the workplace 
rights of HIV-positive employees.
    Sec. 324. None of the funds in this Act shall, in the absence of 
express authorization by Congress, be used directly or indirectly to pay 
for any personal service, advertisement, telegraph, telephone, letter, 
printed or written material, radio, television, video presentation, 
electronic communications, or other device, intended or designed to 
influence in any manner a Member of Congress or of a State legislature 
to favor or oppose by vote or otherwise, any legislation or 
appropriation by Congress or a State legislature after the introduction 
of any bill or resolution in Congress proposing such legislation or 
appropriation, or after the introduction of any bill or resolution in a 
State legislature proposing such legislation or appropriation: Provided, 
That this shall not prevent officers or employees of the Department of 
Transportation or related agencies funded in this Act from communicating 
to Members of Congress or to Congress, on the request of any Member, or 
to members of State legislature, or to a State legislature, through the 
proper official channels, requests for legislation or appropriations 
which they deem necessary for the efficient conduct of business.
    Sec. 325. (a) In General.--None of the funds made available in this 
Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
expending the funds the entity will comply with the Buy American Act (41 
U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 326. In addition to the funds limited in this Act, $54,963,000, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account), shall be available for section 1069(y) of Public Law 102-240.
    Sec. 327. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and other 
funds received by the Department from travel management centers, charge 
card programs, the subleasing of building

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-30]]

space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations of 
the Department and allocated to elements of the Department using fair 
and equitable criteria and such funds shall be available until December 
31, 2001.
    Sec. 328. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of an 
amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 329. For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council 
authorized under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $750,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That the duties of the 
Amtrak Reform Council described in section 203(g)(1) of Public Law 105-
134 shall include the identification of Amtrak routes which are 
candidates for closure or realignment, based on performance rankings 
developed by Amtrak which incorporate information on each route's fully 
allocated costs and ridership on core intercity passenger service, and 
which assume, for purposes of closure or realignment candidate 
identification, that Federal subsidies for Amtrak will decline over the 
4-year period from fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2002: Provided 
further, That these closure or realignment recommendations shall be 
included in the Amtrak Reform Council's annual report to the Congress 
required by section 203(h) of Public Law 105-134.
    Sec. 330. Item number 1473 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 311) is 
amended by striking ``Stony'' and inserting ``Commerce''.
    Sec. 331. None of the funds in this Act may be used to make a grant 
unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations not less than three full business days 
before any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full funding 
grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is announced by the 
department or its modal administrations from: (1) any discretionary 
grant program of the Federal Highway Administration other than the 
emergency relief program; (2) the airport improvement program of the 
Federal Aviation Administration; or (3) any program of the Federal 
Transit Administration other than the formula grants and fixed guideway 
modernization programs: Provided, That no notification shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 332. Of the funds provided for fiscal year 2001 in section 232 
of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2000, as enacted by section 
1000(a)(5) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2000, $20,000,000 
shall be available only for fire and life safety improvements to enable 
the James A. Farley Post Office in New York City to be used as a train 
station and commercial center.
    Sec. 333. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
planning, design, or construction of a light rail system in Houston, 
Texas.
    Sec. 334. Section 3030(b) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(72) Wilmington Downtown transit corridor.
            ``(73) Honolulu Bus Rapid Transit project.''.

    Sec. 335. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act or any other Act shall be used: (1) to adopt any proposed

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-31]]

rule or proposed amendment to a rule contained in the Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking issued on April 24, 2000 (Docket No. FMCSA-97-2350-953); (2) 
to adopt any rule or amendment to a rule similar in substance to a 
proposed rule or proposed amendment to a rule contained in such Notice; 
or (3) if any such proposed rule or proposed amendment to a rule has 
been adopted prior to enactment of this section, to enforce such rule or 
amendment to a rule: Provided, That nothing in this section shall apply 
to issuing and proceeding, through all stages of rulemaking other than 
adoption of a final rule, under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, 
United States Code on a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking to be 
issued in Docket No. FMCSA-97-2350-953 that contains proposed rules and 
proposed amendments to rules that take appropriate account of the 
information received for filing in the docket on the Notice of Proposed 
Rulemaking (Docket No. FMCSA-97-2350-953).
    Sec. 336. Section 3038(e) of Public Law 105-178 is amended by 
striking ``50'' and inserting ``90''.
    Sec. 337. Item number 273 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
is amended by striking ``Reconstruct I-235 and improve the interchange 
for access to the MLKing Parkway.'' and inserting ``Construction of the 
north-south segments of the Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway in Des 
Moines.''.
    Sec. 338. Item number 328 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
is amended by inserting before ``of'' the following: ``or 
construction''.
    Sec. 339. Section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
Century (112 Stat. 256) is amended--
            (1) by striking item number 63, relating to Ohio; and
            (2) in item number 186, relating to Ohio, by striking 
        ``3.75'' and inserting ``7.5''.

    Sec. 340. (a) Of the funds apportioned to the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts under each of subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and 
(b)(4) of section 104 and section 105 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary shall withhold obligation of Federal funds and all project 
approvals for the Central Artery/Tunnel project in fiscal year 2001 and 
each fiscal year thereafter unless the Secretary of the Department of 
Transportation determines that the Commonwealth meets each of the 
following criteria:
            (1) The Commonwealth is in full compliance with the 
        partnership agreement that was executed on June 22, 2000, 
        between the Federal Highway Administration, the Massachusetts 
        Turnpike Authority, the Massachusetts Highway Department, and 
        the Massachusetts Executive Office of Transportation and 
        Construction.
            (2) The Commonwealth is in full compliance with the balanced 
        statewide program memorandum of understanding entered into by 
        the Massachusetts Highway Department, the Executive Office of 
        Transportation and Construction, and metropolitan planning 
        organizations in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
            (3) The Commonwealth of Massachusetts shall spend no less 
        than $400,000,000 each year for construction activities and 
        specific transportation projects as defined in the Balanced

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-32]]

        Statewide Program Memorandum of Understanding on projects other 
        than the Central Artery/Tunnel project.

    (b) After June 22, 2000, the Secretary of Transportation shall not 
approve new net advance construction for the Central Artery/Tunnel 
project in an amount greater than $222,000,000 and no conversion of 
advance construction to obligation authority shall cause the Federal 
share of funding for the Central Artery/Tunnel project to exceed 
$8,549,000,000.
    (c) Of the funds apportioned to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
under each of subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of section 
104 and section 105 of title 23, United States Code, the Secretary shall 
withhold obligation of Federal funds and all project approvals for the 
Central Artery/Tunnel project in fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year 
thereafter until the Inspector General of the Department of 
Transportation finds the annual update of the Central Artery/Tunnel 
project finance plan consistent with Federal Highway Administration 
financial plan guidance and the Secretary of the Department of 
Transportation approves the annual update of the finance plan, except 
for fiscal year 2001 when approval of the annual update of the finance 
plan will not be required until December 1, 2000.
    (d) Total Federal contributions to the Central Artery/Tunnel project 
shall not exceed $8,549,000,000.
    (e) Should the Secretary withhold Federal funds apportioned to the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts under subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), 
and (b)(4) of section 104 and section 105 of title 23, United States 
Code, for the Central Artery/Tunnel project in any fiscal year for 
noncompliance with this section, such funds shall be available to the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts for projects other than the Central 
Artery/Tunnel project in that fiscal year.
    (f ) This section shall be in effect for each fiscal year in which 
any Federal funds are made available to construct the Central Artery/
Tunnel project in Boston, Massachusetts.
    (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section to the 
contrary, the Secretary is authorized to approve conversion of advance 
construction to obligation authority and otherwise make Federal funds 
available to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts without regard to the 
requirements of this section, other than subsection (d), if and only if 
to the extent necessary, as evidenced by a certificate of the Secretary 
of Administration and Finance of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
satisfactory to the Secretary, to enable the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts to pay all or any portion of the principal amount of notes 
issued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts pursuant to section 9 
through 10D of chapter 11 of the Massachusetts acts of 1997, as amended, 
to finance costs of the Central Artery/Tunnel project in anticipation of 
the receipts of Federal funds: Provided, That no funds derived from the 
sale of grant anticipation notes shall be used to exceed the caps 
described in subsections (b) and (d).
    Sec. 341. Section 3027(c)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (49 U.S.C. 5307 note; 112 Stat. 2681-477), relating to 
services for elderly and persons with disabilities, is amended by 
striking ``$1,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,444,000''.
    Sec. 342. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated 
balances from section 149(a)(45) and section 149(a)(63) of Public Law 
100-17 and the Ebensburg Bypass Demonstration

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-33]]

Project of Public Law 101-164 may be used for improvements along Route 
56 in Cambria County, Pennsylvania, including the construction of a 
parking facility in the vicinity.
    Sec. 343. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning, development, or construction of California State Route 710 
freeway extension project through South Pasadena, California.
    Sec. 344. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for engineering work related to an additional runway at New Orleans 
International Airport.
    Sec. 345. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, up to $800,000 
of unobligation balances from capital investement grants available for 
Fayette County, Pennsylvania intermodal facilities and buses in the 
Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277) and the Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-69) may be 
made available for an intermodal parking facility in Cambria County, 
Pennsylvania.
    Sec. 346. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan 
at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to the Senate 
for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article II, section 
2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which has not 
entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.
    Sec. 347. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who 
prepare or submit appropriations language as part of the President's 
Budget submission to the Congress of the United States for programs 
under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittees on Department 
of Transportation and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects 
reductions from the previous year due to user fee proposals that have 
not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the budget unless 
such budget submission identifies which additional spending reductions 
should occur in the event the user fee proposals are not enacted prior 
to the date of the convening of a committee of conference for the fiscal 
year 2002 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 348. In addition to the authority provided in section 636 of 
the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 
1997, as included in Public Law 104-208, title I, section 101(f ), as 
amended, beginning in fiscal year 2001 and thereafter, amounts 
appropriated for salaries and expenses for the Department of 
Transportation may be used to reimburse an employee whose position is 
that of safety inspector for not to exceed one-half the costs incurred 
by such employee for professional liability insurance. Any payment under 
this section shall be contingent upon the submission of such information 
or documentation as the Department may require.
    Sec. 349. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide to 
the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building construction, 
maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport sponsor-owned 
buildings for services relating to air traffic control, air navigation 
or weather reporting. The prohibition of

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-34]]

funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the Agency 
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' rates for 
these items or to grant assurances that require airport sponsors to 
provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 350. None of the funds provided in this Act or prior 
Appropriations Acts for Coast Guard ``Acquisition, construction, and 
improvements'' shall be available after the fifteenth day of any quarter 
of any fiscal year beginning after December 31, 2000, unless the 
Commandant of the Coast Guard first submits a quarterly report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on all major Coast Guard 
acquisition projects including projects executed for the Coast Guard by 
the United States Navy and vessel traffic service projects: Provided, 
That such reports shall include an acquisition schedule, estimated 
current and year funding requirements, and a schedule of anticipated 
obligations and outlays for each major acquisition project: Provided 
further, That such reports shall rate on a relative scale the cost risk, 
schedule risk, and technical risk associated with each acquisition 
project and include a table detailing unobligated balances to date and 
anticipated unobligated balances at the close of the fiscal year and the 
close of the following fiscal year should the Administration's pending 
budget request for the acquisition, construction, and improvements 
account be fully funded: Provided further, That such reports shall also 
provide abbreviated information on the status of shore facility 
construction and renovation projects: Provided further, That all 
information submitted in such reports shall be current as of the last 
day of the preceding quarter.
    Sec. 351. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning in 
fiscal year 2004, the Secretary shall withhold 2 percent of the amount 
required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under 
each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, 
United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a 
provision described in section 163(a) of chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code, in fiscal year 2005, the Secretary shall withhold 4 percent 
of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any 
State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of 
title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not 
enforcing a provision described in section 163(a) of title 23, United 
States Code; in fiscal year 2006, the Secretary shall withhold 6 percent 
of the amount required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any 
State under each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of 
title 23, United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not 
enforcing a provision described in section 163(a) of title 23, United 
States Code; and beginning in fiscal year 2007, and in each fiscal year 
thereafter, the Secretary shall withhold 8 percent of the amount 
required to be apportioned for Federal-aid highways to any State under 
each of paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of section 104(b) of title 23, 
United States Code, if a State has not enacted and is not enforcing a 
provision described in section 163(a) of title 23, United States Code. 
If within 4 years from the date the apportionment for any State is 
reduced in accordance with this section the Secretary determines that 
such State has enacted and is enforcing a provision described in section 
163(a) of chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, the apportionment

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-35]]

of such State shall be increased by an amount equal to such reduction. 
If at the end of such 4-year period, any State has not enacted and is 
not enforcing a provision described in section 163(a) of title 23, 
United States Code, any amounts so withheld shall lapse.
    Sec. 352. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, including the Surplus Property Act of 1944 (58 Stat. 765, chapter 
479; 50 U.S.C. App. 1622 et seq.), the Secretary of Transportation (or 
the appropriate Federal officer) may waive, without charge, any of the 
terms contained in any deed of conveyance described in subsection (b) 
that restrict the use of any land described in such a deed that, as of 
the date of enactment of this Act, is not being used for the operation 
of an airport or for air traffic. A waiver made under the preceding 
sentence shall be deemed to be consistent with the requirements of 
section 47153 of title 49, United States Code.
    (b) Deed of Conveyance.--A deed of conveyance referred to in 
subsection (a) is a deed of conveyance issued by the United States 
before the date of enactment of this Act for the conveyance of lands to 
a public institution of higher education in Oklahoma.
    (c) Use of Lands Subject to Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the lands subject to a waiver under subsection (a) shall not be 
        subject to any term, condition, reservation, or restriction that 
        would otherwise apply to that land as a result of the conveyance 
        of that land by the United States to the institution of higher 
        education.
            (2) Use of lands.--An institution of higher education that 
        is issued a waiver under subsection (a) may use revenues derived 
        from the use, operation, or disposal of that land only for 
        weather-related and educational purposes that include benefits 
        for aviation.

    (d) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        if an institution of higher education that is subject to a 
        waiver under subsection (a) received financial assistance in the 
        form of a grant from the Federal Aviation Administration or a 
        predecessor agency before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        then the Secretary of Transportation may waive the repayment of 
        the outstanding amount of any grant that the institution of 
        higher education would otherwise be required to pay.
            (2) Eligibility to receive subsequent grants.--Nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall affect the eligibility of an institution of 
        higher education that is subject to that paragraph from 
        receiving grants from the Secretary of Transportation under 
        chapter 471 of title 49, United States Code, or under any other 
        provision of law relating to financial assistance provided 
        through the Federal Aviation Administration.

    Sec. 353. The table contained in section 1602 of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century is amended in item 1006 (112 Stat. 294) 
by striking ``Extend NW 86th Street from NW 70th Street'' and inserting 
``Construct a road from State Highway 141''.
    Sec. 354. For the purpose of constructing an underpass to improve 
access and enhance highway/rail safety and economic development along 
Star Landing Road in DeSoto County, Mississippi, the State of 
Mississippi may use funds previously allocated to it under the 
transportation enhancements program, if available.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-36]]

    Sec. 355. Section 1214 of Public Law 105-178, as amended, is further 
amended by adding a new subsection to read as follows:
    ``(s) Notwithstanding section 117(c) of title 23, United States 
Code, for project number 1646 in section 1602 of Public Law 105-178, the 
non-Federal share of the project may be funded by Federal funds from an 
agency or agencies not part of the United States Department of 
Transportation.''.
    Sec. 356. Hereafter, the New Jersey Transit commuter rail station to 
be located at the intersection of the Main/Bergen line and the Northeast 
Corridor line in the State of New Jersey shall be known and designated 
as the ``Frank R. Lautenberg Station'': Provided, That the Secretary of 
Transportation shall ensure that any and all applicable reference in 
law, map, regulation, documentation, and all appropriate signage shall 
make reference to the ``Frank R. Lautenberg Station''.
    Sec. 357. None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
planning, development or construction of a multi-lane, limited access 
expressway at section 800, Pennsylvania Route 202 in Bucks County, 
Pennsylvania.
    Sec. 358. Item 131 in the table under ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Capital investment grants'' in Public Law 106-69 is 
amended by adding after ``buses'' the following: ``, bus-related 
equipment and bus facilities''.
    Sec. 359. Each executive agency shall establish a policy under which 
eligible employees of the agency may participate in telecommuting to the 
maximum extent possible without diminished employee performance. Not 
later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall provide that the 
requirements of this section are applied to 25 percent of the Federal 
workforce, and to an additional 25 percent of such workforce each year 
thereafter.
    Sec. 360. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, new fixed 
guideway system funds available for the Jackson, Mississippi, Intermodal 
Corridor in the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1998, Public Law 105-66, may be made available for 
obligation during this fiscal year for studies to evaluate and define 
transportation alternatives for this project, including an intermodal 
facility at Jackson International Airport, and for related preliminary 
engineering, final design or construction.
    Sec. 361. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, up to $499,000 
of the funds made available in item 760 of section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century shall be available for 
corridor planning studies between western Baldwin County and Mobile 
Municipal Airport.
    Sec. 362. Item number 78 in section 1107(b) of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240) is 
amended by inserting ``Akron Innerbelt (State Route 59) corridor, 
Broadway viaduct replacement, and High Street viaduct replacement,'' 
after ``extension,''.
    Sec. 363. Section 117(c) of title 23, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``; except that 
the Federal share on account of the project to be carried out under item 
1419 of the table contained in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 309), relating to reconstruction of 
a road and causeway in Shiloh

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-37]]

Military Park in Hardin County, Tennessee, shall be 100 percent of the 
total cost thereof''.
    Sec. 364. Section 30118 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsections (a), (b)(1), and (c), by inserting ``, 
        original equipment,'' before ``or replacement equipment'' each 
        place it appears; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting 
                appropriately;
                    (B) by striking ``A manufacturer'' and inserting the 
                following: ``(1) In general.--A manufacturer''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Duty of manufacturers.--For the purposes of paragraph 
        (1), a manufacturer of a motor vehicle, original equipment, or 
        replacement equipment shall have a duty to review and consider 
        information, including information received from any foreign 
        source, to learn whether the vehicle or equipment contains a 
        defect or does not comply with an applicable motor vehicle 
        safety standard.''.

    Sec. 365. Funds appropriated to the Federal Transit Administration 
under the heading ``Transit planning and research'' for international 
activities in Public Law 106-69 shall be transferred to and administered 
by the Agency for International Development for transportation needs in 
the frontline states to the Kosovo conflict, as determined to be 
appropriate by the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development.
    Sec. 366. Under the heading ``Discretionary Grants'' in Public Law 
105-66, ``$4,000,000 for the Salt Lake City regional commuter system 
project;'' is amended to read ``$4,000,000 for the transit and other 
transportation-related portions of the Salt Lake City regional commuter 
system and Gateway intermodal terminal;''.
    Sec. 367. Of the amounts to be made available in fiscal year 2001 
under section 1404 (safety incentives to prevent operation of motor 
vehicles by intoxicated persons) of Public Law 105-178, $2,492,121 shall 
be made available to the Commonwealth of Kentucky for adopting a 0.08 
blood alcohol content standard. Thereafter the remaining funds shall be 
distributed by formula to the eligible States, including Kentucky.
    Sec. 368. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall waive repayment of any Federal-aid highway funds 
expended by the City of Spokane, Washington on the Lincoln Street Bridge 
Project.
    Sec. 369. Items 218 and 219 in the table under ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Capital investment grants'' in division A, section 
101(g) of Public Law 105-277 and items 222 and 223 in the table under 
``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' in Public 
Law 106-69 are amended by inserting ``and bus and bus facilities'' at 
the end of each item.
    Sec. 370. Item number 6 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
is amended by inserting after ``Kaysville'', ``and within the amount 
provided, $2,000,000 for repair and reconstruction of the North Ogden 
Divide Highway''.
    Sec. 371. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, States may use 
funds provided in this Act under section 402 of title

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-38]]

23, United States Code, to produce and place highway safety public 
service messages in television, radio, cinema, and print media, and on 
the Internet in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of 
Transportation. Any State that uses funds for such public service 
messages shall submit to the Secretary a report describing and assessing 
the effectiveness of the messages.
    Sec. 372. Notwithstanding section 402 of the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1982 (49 U.S.C. 
10903 nt), Mohall Railroad, Inc. may abandon track from milepost 5.25 
near Granville, North Dakota, to milepost 35.0 at Lansford, North 
Dakota, and the track so abandoned shall not be counted against the 350-
mile limitation contained in that section.
    Sec. 373. Item number 163 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) 
is amended by inserting before the numeral ``which includes the study, 
design, and construction related to local street improvements needed to 
complement the extension of Kapkowski Road''.
    Sec. 374. Item number 331 in the table contained in section 1602 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 269) is 
amended by striking ``highway access'' and inserting ``highway and 
freight rail access''.
    Sec. 375. For capital costs associated with track relocation, track 
construction and rehabilitation, highway-rail separation construction 
activities including right-of-way acquisition and utility relocation, 
and signal improvements in Muscle Shoals, Tuscumbia, and Sheffield, 
Alabama, $5,000,000 to the Alabama Department of Transportation, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That obligation of Federal 
funds is contingent upon a match of no less than 75 percent from non-
Federal sources.
    Sec. 376. For capital costs associated with track acquisition and 
rehabilitation between Strasburg Junction and Shenandoah Caverns, 
Virginia, $1,000,000 to Valley Trains and Tours, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the obligation of Federal funds is 
contingent upon an agreement with Norfolk Southern Corporation on track 
usage and financial support by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
    Sec. 377. Item 1135 of the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 298) is 
amended by striking ``Replace Barton Road/M-14 interchange, Ann Arbor'' 
and inserting ``Conduct a study of all possible alternatives to the 
current M-14/Barton Drive interchange in Ann Arbor, including relocation 
of M-14/U.S. 23 from Maple Road to Plymouth Road, mass transit options, 
and other means of reducing commuter traffic and improving highway 
safety''.
    Sec. 378. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to 
amounts made available in this Act or any other Act, the following sums 
shall be made available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account): $50,000,000 for the intelligent transportation 
infrastructure program as authorized by section 5117(b)(3) of Public Law 
105-178; $8,500,000 for construction of, and improvements to, 17th 
Avenue and 23d Avenue highway ramps in Denver, Colorado; $1,000,000 for 
engineering, construction of, and improvements to, the Cascade Gateway 
Border Project in Whatcom County, Washington; $100,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, Corridor D on the Appalachian 
development highway system in the State of West Virginia;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-39]]

$1,500,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the Alameda 
Corridor-East Gateway to American Trade corridor project, California; 
$4,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, Avenue G viaduct 
and connector roads in Council Bluffs, Iowa; $34,100,000 for design and 
construction of the Birmingham, Alabama Northern Beltline; $13,500,000 
for construction of, and improvements to, US 231 from Bowling Green to 
Scottsville, Kentucky; $150,000 for improvements to the Broad Street and 
Wyckoff Road intersection, including traffic light upgrades, in the 
Borough of Eatontown, New Jersey; $12,000,000 for construction of road 
expansion and improvements to, the Broad Street Parkway in Nashua, New 
Hampshire; $10,000,000 to construct interchanges US 281 at FM 2812, FM 
162, FM 490, SP 122, and SH 186 in Texas; $12,500,000 to construct 
interchanges US 77 at Business 77 North, FM 3186, FM 490, SP 122, and SP 
413 in Texas; $30,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the 
Cooper River Bridge in South Carolina; $100,000,000 for construction of, 
and improvements to, Corridor X on the Appalachian development highway 
system in the State of Alabama; $4,000,000 for construction, including 
related activities, of an interchange at County Highway J and US 10 and 
to upgrade a segment of US 10 to a four-lane highway in Portage County, 
Wisconsin; $5,000,000 for construction, including related activities, of 
the Craig Road overpass between I-15 and Lossee Road in the City of 
North Las Vegas, Nevada; $30,200,000 for construction of, and 
improvements to, bridges and other projects on the Dalton Highway, 
Alaska; $3,200,000 for improvements to Dayton Road in Ames, Iowa; 
$15,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the Detroit, 
Michigan Ambassador Bridge Gateway project; $24,000,000 for construction 
of, and improvements to, FAST Corridor in Washington; $10,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, the Fort Washington Way 
reconfiguration project, Cincinnati, Ohio; $35,000,000 for construction 
of, and improvements to, the Four Bears Bridge in North Dakota; 
$50,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the Glen Highway/
George Parks Highway interchange in Alaska; $8,000,000 for preliminary 
design of the Interstate Route 69 Great River Bridge crossing the 
Mississippi at Bolivar County, Mississippi; $8,000,000 for 
reconstruction of, and other improvements to, Halls Mill Road in 
Freehold Township and Monmouth County, New Jersey; $4,500,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, Hamakua-Hilo corridor road and 
bridge projects, Hawaii; $35,000,000 for construction, including related 
activities, of an extension of Highway 180 from the City of Mendota to 
I-5 in Fresno County, California; $10,000,000 to upgrade Highway 36 in 
Marion County, Missouri, to four-lane divided highway; $9,750,000 for 
widening, relocation of, and other improvements to South Carolina 
Highway 5, including the removal and relocation of municipal utilities, 
between Interstate 85 in Cherokee County, South Carolina and Interstate 
77 in York County, South Carolina; $10,000,000 for upgrading Highway 60 
in Shannon and Carter counties, Missouri, to four-lane divided highway; 
$6,400,000 for Hoeven Valley corridor, Sioux City, road, intersection, 
and rail crossing improvements in Iowa; $20,000,000 for environmental 
work, design, and construction of the Hoover Dam bypass four-lane 
bridge; $13,500,000 for construction of, and improvements to, I-15 
between milepost 0 and milepost 16, from the Utah border to Deep Creek, 
Idaho; $10,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the I-15 
Southbound project, Nevada; $10,000,000 for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-40]]

construction of, and improvements to, I-195 in Rhode Island; $6,400,000 
for municipality relocation costs for I-235 in Polk County, Iowa; 
$12,000,000 for environmental work, preliminary survey and design, and 
reconstruction of I-35 from Des Moines to Ankeny, Iowa; $36,000,000 for 
construction, including related activities, of the I-39/US 51/SH 29 
corridor (Wausau Beltline) in and around Wausau, Wisconsin; $94,000,000 
for construction of, and improvements to, I-49 in the State of Arkansas; 
$18,400,000 for environmental work, preliminary survey and design of I-
69 in Tennessee; $10,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, 
the I-80/US 395 interchange, in Reno, Nevada; $2,800,000 for border 
crossing improvements on I-87, in New York; $8,000,000 for construction 
of, and improvements to, the I-95 to Transitway access project in 
Stamford, Connecticut; $4,000,000 for construction of, and improvements 
to, U.S. Department of Transportation structure numbered 289-961-H at 
FAS Route 37 in Illinois; $250,000 for improvements at the Rosedale Road 
and Provinceline Road intersection in the Township of Princeton, New 
Jersey; $1,200,000 for improvements to County Route 605 in Delaware 
Township and West Amwell Township Hunterdon County, New Jersey; 
$2,500,000 for improvements to the Route 9 and Route 520 intersection in 
Marlboro Township, New Jersey; $5,000,000 for improvements to US 73 from 
State Avenue North to Marxen Road in Wyandotte County, Kansas; 
$5,000,000 for installation of sound barriers along the Route 309 
Expressway between Limekiln Pike and State Route 63 in Montgomery 
County, Pennsylvania; $8,700,000 for construction, including related 
activities, of a new interchange on I-435 at Donahoo Road in Wyandotte 
County, Kansas; $15,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, 
the intersection at 27th Street and Airport Road in Billings, Montana; 
$5,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, Kahuku Bridges, 
Hawaii; $5,500,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the Kansas 
Lane Connector Road alignment project in Monroe, Louisiana; $4,000,000 
for construction of, and improvements to, Kekaha, Kauai access roads, 
Hawaii; $10,000,000 for planning, environmental work, and preliminary 
engineering of highway, pedestrian, vehicular, and bicycle access to the 
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in the District of 
Columbia; $2,500,000 for construction of, and improvements to, Kihei 
Road, Hawaii; $10,000,000 for Lafayette Street access improvements from 
the US 202 Dannehower Bridge to the Pennsylvania Turnpike, including 
extension of Lafayette Street to the Conshohocken Road, intersection 
improvements and bridge reconstruction, in Norristown, Pennsylvania; 
$12,400,000 for widening and overlay/guard rail work on SR 789 between 
Lander and Hudson, Wyoming; $500,000 for reconstruction of Lewisville 
Road in Lawrence Township, New Jersey; $3,200,000 for construction of, 
and improvements to, the Martin Luther King, Jr. Bridge in Toledo, Ohio; 
$9,300,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the Midtown West 
intermodal ferry terminal, New York City, New York; $5,000,000 for 
construction, including related activities, of an extension of 
Mississippi Highway 44, including a bridge over the Pearl River, in 
Lawrence County, Mississippi; $13,000,000 for construction of, and 
improvements to, the Missouri River pedestrian crossing in Omaha, 
Nebraska; $5,000,000 for the NJCDC Training Facility Project in 
Paterson, New Jersey; $16,000,000 for construction of, and improvements 
to, North Shore Road in Swain County, North Carolina; $3,500,000 for 
construction of, and improvements

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-41]]

to, the Norwich, Connecticut intermodal facility project; $1,500,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, Padanaram and Little River Road 
bridge projects in Dartmouth, Massachusetts; $11,000,000 for 
reconstruction activities on the Potee Street Bridge in Baltimore, 
Maryland; $250,000 for reconstruction of Institute Street, Lockwood 
Avenue, First Street, Second Street, Third Street, Ford Avenue, Liberty 
Street and Bond Street in the Borough of Freehold, New Jersey; 
$4,200,000 for relocation and related construction activities thereto of 
MacArthur Boulevard in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; $1,200,000 for grade 
crossing eliminations along Route 17 in Chemung County, New York; 
$4,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, Route 2 between St. 
Johnsbury, Vermont and the New Hampshire State Line; $500,000 for 
improvements to Route 35 at Clinton Avenue and other intersections in 
the Borough of Eatontown, New Jersey; $500,000 for Route 35 corridor 
improvements, including signal upgrades, in the Borough of Eatontown, 
New Jersey; $2,600,000 for construction of, and improvements to, the 
Niangua Bridge on Route 5 in Camden County, Missouri; $1,000,000 for 
improvements to Route 641 in Hunterdon County, New Jersey; $25,000,000 
for construction, including related activities, of the Route 7 North 
bypass in Brookfield, Connecticut; $6,000,000 for construction of, and 
improvements to, the Route 9 Bennington Bypass, Vermont; $5,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, Saddle Road, Hawaii; $1,200,000 
for reconstruction of School Road East in Marlboro Township, New Jersey; 
$29,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, a Southeast 
Connector Route between I-90 and SD 79 in South Dakota; $5,000,000 for 
improvements, including traffic signal system upgrades, to State Route 
99 in Shoreline, Washington; $500,000 for the Township of Princeton, New 
Jersey municipal complex road improvements, including improvements to 
the Valley, Mount Lucas, Terhune and Cherry Hill roadways in the 
Township of Princeton, New Jersey; $23,600,000 for construction of, and 
improvements to, US 12 between Aberdeen and I-29 in South Dakota; 
$40,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, US 19 in Pinellas 
County, Florida; $25,000,000 for construction of, and improvements to, 
US 50 Parkersburg bypass in West Virginia; $10,000,000 for construction 
of, and improvements to, US 63 in Jonesboro, Arkansas; $5,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, US 101 in Oregon; $4,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, US 54 in Kansas; $100,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, the US 82 bridge over the 
Mississippi River at Greenville, Mississippi; $10,000,000 for 
construction of, and improvements to, including widening, of US 95 
between Laughlin Cutoff and Railroad Pass, Nevada; $1,000,000 for 
improvements to the Van Wyck Expressway, Queens County, New York; and 
$20,000,000 for widening US 53 from two lanes to four lanes from 
Minnesota Highway 169 north of Virginia, Minnesota to Cook, Minnesota: 
Provided, That the amounts appropriated in this section shall remain 
available until expended and shall not be subject to, or computed 
against, any obligation limitation or contract authority set forth in 
this Act or any other Act.
    Sec. 379. (a) Section 412(a) of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge 
Authority Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 627; 112 Stat. 159) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``There is'' and inserting the 
                following:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-42]]

                    ``(A) Highway trust fund.--There is''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) General fund.--
                          ``(i) In general.--In addition to amounts made 
                      available under subparagraph (A), there is 
                      appropriated to pay the costs described in 
                      subparagraph (A) $600,000,000 for fiscal year 
                      2001.
                          ``(ii) Condition.--Notwithstanding any other 
                      provision of law, the additional funds made 
                      available by clause (i) shall be made available 
                      only when 1 or more of the Capital Region 
                      jurisdictions accepts conveyance from the 
                      Secretary of all right, title, and interest of the 
                      United States in and to the new Bridge.
                          ``(iii) Manner of use.--The use of the 
                      additional funds made available by clause (i) 
                      shall be subject to title 23, United States 
                      Code.'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``Funds'' and inserting ``Except as 
                provided in paragraph (3), funds''; and
                    (B) by striking ``this section'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (1)(A)''; and
            (3) by striking ``Code; except that--'' and inserting the 
        following: ``Code.
            ``(3) Conditions.--With respect to funds authorized or 
        appropriated by this section--''.

    (b) Section 412 of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act 
of 1995 (109 Stat. 627; 112 Stat. 159) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(d) Limitation on Federal Contribution.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        aggregate of the amounts made available from the Highway Trust 
        Fund and the general fund of the Treasury under this section 
        shall not exceed $1,500,000,000.
            ``(2) Excluded amounts.--Amounts made available for the 
        Project under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, shall 
        be excluded from the limitation established by paragraph (1).''.

    Sec. 380. Section 5309(g)(4) of title 49 United States Code is 
amended by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(4)'' and by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(B) For fiscal year 2001 and thereafter, the amount 
        equivalent to the last 2 fiscal years of funding authorized 
        under section 5338(b) for new fixed guideway systems and 
        extensions to existing fixed guideway systems referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) shall be the amount equivalent to the last 3 
        fiscal years of such authorized funding.
            ``(C) Any increase in the total estimated amount of future 
        obligations of the Government and contingent commitments to 
        incur obligations covered by all outstanding letters of intent, 
        full funding grant agreements, and early systems work agreements 
        as a result of application of subparagraph (B) instead of 
        subparagraph (A) shall be available as follows:
                    ``(1) $269,100,000 for the Chicago, Illinois Metra 
                commuter rail project, that consists of the following 
                elements: the Kane County extension; the North Central 
                double-tracking project; and the Southwest corridor 
                extension.
                    ``(2) $565,600,000 for the Chicago Transit Authority 
                project that consists of the following elements: 
                Ravenswood

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-43]]

                Branch station and line improvements and the Douglas 
                Branch reconstruction project.
                    ``(3) For new fixed guideways and extensions to 
                existing fixed guideway systems other than for projects 
                referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2); except that for 
                fiscal year 2001, such increase under this paragraph 
                shall not be available for allocation by the department 
                or for making future obligations of the Government and 
                contingent commitments until April 1, 2001.
            ``(D) Of the amount that would be available under 
        subparagraph (A) if subparagraph (B) were not in effect and 
        would have otherwise been allocated by the Federal Transit 
        Administration to those projects referred to in subparagraphs 
        (C)(1) and (C)(2) shall be available as follows:
                    ``(1) $60,000,000 for the Minneapolis Hiawatha 
                corridor light rail project, which shall be in addition 
                to amounts otherwise allocated under subparagraph (A), 
                for a total of $334,300,000.
                    ``(2) $217,800,000 for the Dulles corridor bus rapid 
                transit project, that consists of a light rail extension 
                from the West Falls Church metrorail station to Tysons 
                Corner, Virginia and bus rapid transit from Tysons 
                Corner to the Dulles International Airport.
            ``(E) Any amount that would be available under subparagraph 
        (A) if subparagraph (B) were not in effect and would have 
        otherwise been allocated by the Federal Transit Administration 
        to those projects referred to in subparagraphs (C)(1) and 
        (C)(2), shall not be available for allocation by the department 
        or for making future obligations of the Government and 
        contingent commitments until April 1, 2001, except for those 
        projects referred to in subparagraph (D)(1) and (D)(2).
            ``(F) Future obligations of the Government and contingent 
        commitments made against the contingent commitment authority 
        under section 3032(g)(2) of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 for the San Francisco BART 
        to the Airport project for fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 
        and 2006 shall be charged against section 3032(g)(2) of the 
        Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991.
            ``(G) Any amount that would be available under subparagraph 
        (A) if subparagraph (F) were not in effect and would otherwise 
        have been allocated by the Federal Transit Administration to the 
        project in subparagraph (F) shall not be available for 
        allocation by the department or for making future obligations of 
        the Government and contingent commitments until April 1, 
        2001.''.

    Sec. 381. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within one 
week from the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Transit 
Administrator shall sign a Full Funding Grant Agreement for the MOS-2 
segment of the New Jersey Urban Core--Hudson Bergen project.
    Sec. 382. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
may be used to adjust the boundary of the Point Retreat Light Station or 
to otherwise limit the property at the Point Retreat Light Station 
currently under lease to the Alaska Lighthouse Association: Provided, 
That any modifications to the boundary of the Point Retreat Light 
Station made after January 1, 1998 is hereby declared null and void.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-44]]

                                TITLE IV

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount into the account established 
under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States Code, to reduce the 
public debt, $5,000,000,000.

                                 TITLE V

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount in support of the Nation's counterterrorism 
efforts, $6,424,000: Provided, That these funds shall be for 
establishing a new interagency National Terrorist Asset Tracking Center 
in the Office of Foreign Assets Control: Provided further, That these 
funds may be used to reimburse any Department of the Treasury 
organization for costs of providing support for this effort.

        Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the integrated Treasury wireless 
network, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
these funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary 
to satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and 
other organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority 
shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be used to support or 
supplement the Internal Revenue Service appropriations for Information 
Systems.

                  Expanded Access to Financial Services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount to develop and implement programs to expand 
access to financial services for low- and moderate-income individuals, 
$8,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of these 
funds, such sums as may be necessary may be transferred to accounts of 
the Department's offices, bureaus, and other organizations: Provided 
further, That this transfer authority shall be in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount to establish and operate a metropolitan 
area law enforcement training center for the Department of

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-45]]

the Treasury, other Federal agencies, the United States Capitol Police, 
and the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan Police Department, $5,000,000: 
Provided, That the principal function of the center shall be for 
firearms and vehicle operation requalification: Provided further, That 
use of the center for training for other State and local law enforcement 
agencies may be provided on a space-available basis: Provided further, 
That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to 
obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursement from agencies receiving 
training sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not 
exceed total budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal 
year: Provided further, That the costs of transportation to and from the 
center, ammunition, vehicles, and instruction at the center shall be 
funded either directly by participating law enforcement agencies, or 
through reimbursement of actual costs to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided, no more than $1,500,000 may be 
obligated until a funding plan for the center has been submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That all Federal 
property in the National Capital Region that is in the surplus property 
inventory of the General Services Administration shall be available for 
selection and use by the Secretary of the Treasury as the site of such a 
metropolitan area law enforcement training center. If the Secretary of 
the Treasury identifies a parcel of such property that is appropriate 
for use for such a center, the property shall not be treated as excess 
property or surplus property (as those terms are used in the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949) and administrative 
jurisdiction over the property shall be transferred to the Secretary for 
use for such a center.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For an additional amount for design and construction of a 
metropolitan area law enforcement training center, including firearms 
and vehicle operations requalification facilities, $25,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the funds provided, 
no more than $3,000,000 may be obligated until a design and construction 
plan has been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount, $4,148,000, for participation in Joint 
Terrorism Task Forces.

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount, $18,934,000: Provided, That $10,000,000 
shall be for technology and infrastructure along the northern border: 
Provided further, That $6,600,000 shall be for hiring counterterrorism 
agents for deployment along the northern border: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided for the northern border shall be obligated 
until the Commissioner of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-46]]

Customs Service submits for approval to the Committees on Appropriations 
a plan for the deployment of the resources and personnel: Provided 
further, That $2,334,000 shall be for participation in Joint Terrorism 
Task Forces.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           tax law enforcement

    For an additional amount, $7,974,000: Provided, That $3,135,000 
shall be in support of the money laundering strategy: Provided further, 
That $4,839,000 shall be for participation in Joint Terrorism Task 
Forces.

                   information technology investments

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, $71,751,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2003, for the capital asset 
acquisition of information technology systems, including management and 
related contractual costs of said acquisitions, including contractual 
costs associated with operations authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, 
That none of these funds may be obligated until the Internal Revenue 
Service submits to the Committees on Appropriations, and such Committees 
approve, a plan for expenditure that: (1) meets the capital planning and 
investment control review requirements established by the Office of 
Management and Budget, including Circular A-11 part 3; (2) complies with 
the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise architecture, including the 
modernization blueprint; (3) conforms with the Internal Revenue 
Service's enterprise life cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the 
Internal Revenue Service, the Department of the Treasury, and the Office 
of Management and Budget; (5) has been reviewed by the General 
Accounting Office; and (6) complies with the acquisition rules, 
requirements, guidelines, and systems acquisition management practices 
of the Federal Government.

           staffing tax administration for balance and equity

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service related to 
the hiring of new staff, $141,000,000: Provided, That these funds shall 
be transferred to the appropriations accounts for ``Processing, 
Assistance, and Management'', ``Tax Law Enforcement'', and ``Information 
Systems'' in accordance with a staffing plan approved by the Department 
of the Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget: Provided 
further, That none of these funds may be transferred or obligated until 
such staffing plan is submitted to, and approved by, the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount, $2,904,000, for participation in Joint 
Terrorism Task Forces.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-47]]

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount, $7,000,000: Provided, That $5,000,000 
shall be available for continued operation of the technology transfer 
program: Provided further, That $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available for counternarcotics research and 
development projects, to be used for the continued development of a 
wireless interoperability communication project in Colorado.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year, as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $3,500,000: Provided, That, of such amount, 
$2,500,000 shall become available on March 31, 2001, and shall be 
provided to the Elections Commission of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
as a transfer to be used for objective, nonpartisan citizens' education 
and a choice by voters regarding the islands' future status: Provided 
further, That none of the funds described in the preceding proviso may 
be obligated until 45 days after the Elections Commission of the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico submits to the Committees on Appropriations 
for approval an expenditure plan developed jointly by the Popular 
Democratic Party, the New Progressive Party, and the Puerto Rican 
Independence Party: Provided further, That the Elections Commission of 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall include in the expenditure plan 
additional views from any party that does not agree with the plan.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount to be deposited in, and to be used for the 
purposes of, the Fund established pursuant to section 210(f ) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 
U.S.C. 490(f )), $11,350,000: Provided, That $3,000,000 shall be 
available for nonprospectus construction: Provided further, That 
$8,350,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available for 
repairs and alterations.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-48]]

                          policy and operations

    For an additional amount, $13,789,000 of which $2,060,000 shall be 
for the electronic government initiative, of which $2,000,000 shall be 
for the regulatory information service center, of which $2,000,000 shall 
be for facilitating post conveyance remediation to be performed by the 
City of Waltham, Massachusetts, of which $2,000,000 shall be for a grant 
to the Institute for Biomedical Science and Biotechnology, of which 
$2,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Center for Agricultural Policy 
and Trade Studies, of which $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Berwick, Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be a grant to Ewing-Lawrence Sewerage Authority in 
Ewing Township, New Jersey, of which $750,000 shall be for logistical 
support of the World Police and Fire Games in Indiana, and of which 
$979,000 shall be for base operations.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                         repairs and restoration

    For an additional amount for repairs to the John F. Kennedy 
Presidential Library, $6,610,000, to remain available until expended.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 501. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of Personal 
Information on Use of Internet.--None of the funds made available in the 
Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2001 may be used by 
any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregate list, 
        derived from any means, that includes the collection of any 
        personally identifiable information relating to an individual's 
        access to or use of any Federal government Internet site of the 
        agency; or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregate list, derived from any means, that includes 
        the collection of any personally identifiable information 
        relating to an individual's access to or use of any 
        nongovernmental Internet site.

    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet site 
        and is necessarily incident to the rendition of the Internet 
        site services or to the protection of the rights or property of 
        the provider of the Internet site.

    (c) Relation to Other Provision.--Section 644 of the Treasury and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2001 (relating

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-49]]

to Federal agency monitoring of personal information on use of the 
Internet) shall not have effect.
    (d) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety and 
        soundness, overall financial condition, management practices and 
        policies and compliance with applicable standards as provided in 
        law.

    Sec. 502. (a) Clarification of Permissible Use of Facsimile Machines 
and Electronic Mail to File Independent Expenditure Statements.--Section 
304 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 434) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) Any person who is required to file a statement under 
subsection (c) of this section, except statements required to be filed 
electronically pursuant to subsection (a)(11)(A)(i) may file the 
statement by facsimile device or electronic mail, in accordance with 
such regulations as the Commission may promulgate.
    ``(2) The Commission shall make a document which is filed 
electronically with the Commission pursuant to this paragraph accessible 
to the public on the Internet not later than 24 hours after the document 
is received by the Commission.
    ``(3) In promulgating a regulation under this paragraph, the 
Commission shall provide methods (other than requiring a signature on 
the document being filed) for verifying the documents covered by the 
regulation. Any document verified under any of the methods shall be 
treated for all purposes (including penalties for perjury) in the same 
manner as a document verified by signature.''.
    (b) Treatment of Lines of Credit Obtained by Candidates as 
Commercially Reasonable Loans.--Section 301(8)(B) of such Act of 1971 (2 
U.S.C. 431(8)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (xiii);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (xiv) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
            ``(xv) any loan of money derived from an advance on a 
        candidate's brokerage account, credit card, home equity line of 
        credit, or other line of credit available to the candidate, if 
        such loan is made in accordance with applicable law and under 
        commercially reasonable terms and if the person making such loan 
        makes loans derived from an advance on the candidate's brokerage 
        account, credit card, home equity line of credit, or other line 
        of credit in the normal course of the person's business.''.

    (c) Requiring Actual Receipt of Certain Independent Expenditure 
Reports Within 24 Hours.--
            (1) In general.--Section 304(c)(2) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
        434(c)(2)) is amended in the matter following subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by striking ``shall be reported'' and inserting 
                ``shall be filed''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
                ``Notwithstanding subsection (a)(5), the time at which 
                the statement under this subsection is received by the 
                Secretary, the Commission, or any other recipient to 
                whom

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-50]]

                the notification is required to be sent shall be 
                considered the time of filing of the statement with the 
                recipient.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 304(a)(5) of such Act (2 
        U.S.C. 434(a)(5)) is amended by striking ``or (4)(A)(ii)'' and 
        inserting ``or (4)(A)(ii), or the second sentence of subsection 
        (c)(2)''.

    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to elections occurring after January 2001.
    Sec. 503. Of the amounts provided to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy for fiscal year 2001 for the anti-doping efforts of the 
United States Olympic Committee, the Director of such Office shall make 
direct payment of $3,300,000 to The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 
Incorporated, for the conduct of anti-doping activities: Provided, That 
these funds shall be provided not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available for this effort, The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency shall have the 
sole authority to obligate these funds for the promotion of anti-doping 
efforts relating to United States athletes in the Olympic, Pan American, 
and Paralympic Games.
    Sec. 504. Section 640 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (relating to Civil Service Retirement System) 
shall not have effect.
    Sec. 505. (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--The table under 
section 8334(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter relating to an employee by striking:

      

                                   ``7.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (2) in the matter relating to a Member or employee for 
        Congressional employee service by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (3) in the matter relating to a law enforcement officer for 
        law enforcement service and firefighter for firefighter service 
        by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-51]]



                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (4) in the matter relating to a bankruptcy judge by 
        striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (5) in the matter relating to a judge of the United States 
        Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for service as a judge of 
        that court by striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (6) in the matter relating to a United States magistrate by 
        striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (7) in the matter relating to a Court of Federal Claims 
        judge by striking:

      

                                   ``8.5...........  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   8...............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``8..............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

            (8) in the matter relating to a member of the Capitol Police 
        by striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-52]]



                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.'';
 

        and
            (9) in the matter relating to a nuclear materials courier by 
        striking:

      

                                   ``8.............  January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2002.
                                   7.5.............  After December 31, 2002.''
 

        and inserting the following:

      

                                  ``7.5............  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

    (b) Federal Employees' Retirement System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8422(a) of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(3) The applicable percentage under this paragraph for civilian 
service shall be as follows:

      

``Employee..............................  7......................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.25...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.4....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7......................  After December 31, 2000.
Congressional employee..................  7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.
Member..................................  7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          8......................  January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2002.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2002.
Law enforcement officer, firefighter,     7.5....................  January 1, 1987, to December 31, 1998.
 member of the Capitol Police, or air
 traffic controller.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.
Nuclear materials courier...............  7......................  January 1, 1987, to October 16, 1998.
                                          7.5....................  October 17, 1998, to December 31, 1998.
                                          7.75...................  January 1, 1999, to December 31, 1999.
                                          7.9....................  January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2000.
                                          7.5....................  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

            (2) Military service.--Section 8422(e)(6) of title 5, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-53]]

                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C).
            (3) Volunteer service.--Section 8422(f )(4) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C).

    (c) Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7001(c)(2) of the Balanced Budget 
        Act of 1997 (50 U.S.C. 2021 note) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.
            (2) Military service.--Section 252(h)(1)(A) of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(1)(A)), is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.

    (d) Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 7001(d)(2) of the Balanced Budget 
        Act of 1997 (22 U.S.C. 4045 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) in the matter before the colon, by 
                      striking ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting 
                      ``December 31, 2000''; and
                          (ii) in the matter after the colon, by 
                      striking all that follows ``December 31, 2000.''; 
                      and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                          (i) in the matter before the colon, by 
                      striking ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting 
                      ``December 31, 2000''; and
                          (ii) in the matter after the colon, by 
                      striking all that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 805(d)(1) of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4045(d)(1)) is amended, in the 
        table in the matter following subparagraph (B), by striking:

      

                                          ``January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2002, inclusive..............................   7.5
                                          After December 31, 2002..............................................................   7''
 

                and inserting the following:

      

                                          ``After December 31, 2000............................................................   7''.
 

    (e) Foreign Service Pension System.--
            (1) In general.--Section 856(a)(2) of the Foreign Service 
        Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4071e(a)(2)) is amended by striking

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-54]]

        all that follows ``December 31, 2000.'' and inserting the 
        following:

      

                                   ``7.5...........  After December 31, 2000.''.
 

            (2) Volunteer service.--Section 854(c)(1) of the Foreign 
        Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4071c(c)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before the colon, by striking 
                ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
                2000''; and
                    (B) in the matter after the colon, by striking all 
                that follows ``December 31, 2000.''.

    (f ) Civil Service Retirement System.--Notwithstanding section 
8334(a)(1) or (k)(1) of title 5, United States Code, during the period 
beginning on October 1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, each employing 
agency (other than the United States Postal Service or the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority) shall contribute--
            (1) 7.5 percent of the basic pay of an employee;
            (2) 8 percent of the basic pay of a congressional employee, 
        a law enforcement officer, a member of the Capitol Police, a 
        firefighter, or a nuclear materials courier; and
            (3) 8.5 percent of the basic pay of a Member of Congress, a 
        Court of Federal Claims judge, a United States magistrate, a 
        judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed 
        Forces, or a bankruptcy judge,

in lieu of the agency contributions otherwise required under section 
8334(a)(1) of such title 5.
    (g) Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System.--
Notwithstanding section 211(a)(2) of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2021(a)(2)), during the period beginning on 
October 1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, the Central Intelligence 
Agency shall contribute 7.5 percent of the basic pay of an employee 
participating in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System in lieu of the agency contribution otherwise required 
under section 211(a)(2) of such Act.

    (h) Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System.--
Notwithstanding any provision of section 805(a) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4045(a)), during the period beginning on October 
1, 2002, through December 31, 2002, each agency employing a participant 
in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System shall contribute 
to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund--
            (1) 7.5 percent of the basic pay of each participant covered 
        under section 805(a)(1) of such Act participating in the Foreign 
        Service Retirement and Disability System; and
            (2) 8 percent of the basic pay of each participant covered 
        under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 805(a) of such Act 
        participating in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability 
        System,

in lieu of the agency contribution otherwise required under section 
805(a) of such Act.
    (i) The amendments made by this section shall take effect upon the 
close of calendar year 2000, and shall apply thereafter.
    Sec. 506. Of the amount provided to the United States Secret Service 
for fiscal year 2001 and specified for activities related to 
investigations of exploited children, $2,000,000 shall be available to 
the United States Secret Service for forensic and related support

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-55]]

of investigations of missing and exploited children and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2001.
      Sec. 507. (a) Section 108 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2001 is amended to read as follows:
      ``Sec. 108. Chief Administrative Officer.--(a) In General.--There 
shall be within the Capitol Police an Office of Administration to be 
headed by a Chief Administrative Officer as follows:
          ``(1) Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Chief Administrative Officer shall be appointed 
        by the Chief of the Capitol Police after consultation with the 
        Capitol Police Board and the Comptroller General, and shall 
        report to and serve at the pleasure of the Chief of the Capitol 
        Police.
          ``(2) The Comptroller General shall evaluate the performance 
        of the Chief Administrative Officer in carrying out the duties 
        and responsibilities of the Office of Administration as outlined 
        in this section. The Comptroller General shall meet with the 
        Chief of the Capitol Police and the Capitol Police Board at 
        least quarterly to provide an analysis of the performance of the 
        Chief Administrative Officer. The Comptroller General shall 
        report the results of the evaluation to the Chief of the Capitol 
        Police, the Capitol Police Board, the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate, the 
        Committee on House Administration of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration 
        of the Senate.
          ``(3) The Chief of the Capitol Police shall appoint as Chief 
        Administrative Officer an individual with the knowledge and 
        skills necessary to carry out the responsibilities for 
        budgeting, financial management, information technology, and 
        human resource management described in this section.
          ``(4) The Chief Administrative Officer shall receive basic pay 
        at a rate determined by the Capitol Police Board, but not to 
        exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable for ES-2 of the 
        Senior Executive Service, as established under subchapter VIII 
        of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code (taking into 
        account any comparability payments made under section 5304(h) of 
        such title).
          ``(5) The Capitol Police shall reimburse from available 
        appropriations any costs incurred by the Comptroller General 
        under this section, which shall be deposited to the 
        appropriation of the General Accounting Office then available 
        and remain available until expended.
      ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Chief Administrative Officer shall 
have the following areas of responsibility:
            ``(1) Budgeting.--The Chief Administrative Officer shall--
                    ``(A) prepare and submit to the Capitol Police Board 
                an annual budget for the Capitol Police; and
                    ``(B) execute the budget and monitor through 
                periodic examinations the execution of the Capitol 
                Police budget in relation to actual obligations and 
                expenditures.
            ``(2) Financial management.--The Chief Administrative 
        Officer shall--
                    ``(A) oversee all financial management activities 
                relating to the programs and operations of the Capitol 
                Police;
                    ``(B) develop and maintain an integrated accounting 
                and financial system for the Capitol Police, including 
                financial reporting and internal controls, which--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-56]]

                          ``(i) complies with applicable accounting 
                      principles, standards, and requirements, and 
                      internal control standards;
                          ``(ii) complies with any other requirements 
                      applicable to such systems; and
                          ``(iii) provides for--
                                    ``(I) complete, reliable, 
                                consistent, and timely information which 
                                is prepared on a uniform basis and which 
                                is responsive to financial information 
                                needs of the Capitol Police;
                                    ``(II) the development and reporting 
                                of cost information;
                                    ``(III) the integration of 
                                accounting and budgeting information; 
                                and
                                    ``(IV) the systematic measurement of 
                                performance;
                    ``(C) direct, manage, and provide policy guidance 
                and oversight of Capitol Police financial management 
                personnel, activities, and operations, including--
                          ``(i) the recruitment, selection, and training 
                      of personnel to carry out Capitol Police financial 
                      management functions; and
                          ``(ii) the implementation of Capitol Police 
                      asset management systems, including systems for 
                      cash management, debt collection, and property and 
                      inventory management and control; and
                    ``(D) shall prepare annual financial statements for 
                the Capitol Police and provide for an annual audit of 
                the financial statements by an independent public 
                accountant in accordance with generally accepted 
                government auditing standards.
            ``(3) Information technology.--The Chief Administrative 
        Officer shall--
                    ``(A) direct, coordinate, and oversee the 
                acquisition, use, and management of information 
                technology by the Capitol Police;
                    ``(B) promote and oversee the use of information 
                technology to improve the efficiency and effectiveness 
                of programs of the Capitol Police; and
                    ``(C) establish and enforce information technology 
                principles, guidelines, and objectives, including 
                developing and maintaining an information technology 
                architecture for the Capitol Police.
            ``(4) Human resources.--The Chief Administrative Officer 
        shall--
                    ``(A) direct, coordinate, and oversee human 
                resources management activities of the Capitol Police;
                    ``(B) develop and monitor payroll and time and 
                attendance systems and employee services; and
                    ``(C) develop and monitor processes for recruiting, 
                selecting, appraising, and promoting employees.

    ``(c) Administrative Provisions.--
            ``(1) Personnel.--The Chief Administrative Officer is 
        authorized to select, appoint, employ, and discharge such 
        officers and employees as may be necessary to carry out the 
        functions, powers, and duties of the Office of Administration,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1356A-57]]

        but shall not have the authority to hire or discharge uniformed 
        and operational police force personnel.
            ``(2) Resources of other agencies.--The Chief Administrative 
        Officer may utilize resources of another agency on a 
        reimbursable basis to be paid from available appropriations of 
        the Capitol Police.

    ``(d) Plan.--No later than 180 days after appointment, the Chief 
Administrative Officer shall prepare and submit to Chief of the Capitol 
Police, the Capitol Police Board, and the Comptroller General, a plan--
            ``(1) describing the policies, procedures, and actions the 
        Chief Administrative Officer will take in carrying out the 
        responsibilities assigned under this section;
            ``(2) identifying and defining responsibilities and roles of 
        all offices, bureaus, and divisions of the Capitol Police for 
        budgeting, financial management, information technology, and 
        human resources management; and
            ``(3) detailing mechanisms for ensuring that the offices, 
        bureaus, and divisions perform their responsibilities and roles 
        in a coordinated and integrated manner.

    ``(e) Report.--No later than September 30, 2001, the Chief 
Administrative Officer shall prepare and submit to the Chief of the 
Capitol Police, the Capitol Police Board, and the Comptroller General, a 
report on the Chief Administrative Officer's progress in implementing 
the plan described in subsection (d) and recommendations to improve the 
budgeting, financial, information technology, and human resources 
management of the Capitol Police, including organizational, accounting 
and administrative control, and personnel changes.
    ``(f ) Submission to Committees.--The Chief of the Capitol Police 
shall submit the plan required in subsection (d) and report required in 
subsection (e) to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and of the Senate, the Committee on House Administration 
of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate.
    ``(g) Termination of Role.--As of October 1, 2002, the role of the 
Comptroller General, as established by this section, will cease.''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if 
included in the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2001.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001''.