[106th Congress Public Law 377]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ377.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1441]]

Public Law 106-377
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
 Housing and Urban Development, <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 2000 -  [H.R. 4635]>>  
and for sundry independent agencies, boards, commissions, corporations, 
and offices for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
    Section 1. <<NOTE: Incorporation by reference.>>  (a) The provisions 
of the following bills of the 106th Congress are hereby enacted into 
law:
            (1) H.R. 5482, as introduced on October 18, 2000.
            (2) H.R. 5483, as introduced on October 18, 2000.

    (b) <<NOTE: Publication. 1 USC 112 note.>> In publishing this Act in 
slip form and in the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to section 
112 of title 1, United States Code, the Archivist of the United States 
shall include after the date of approval at the end appendixes setting 
forth the texts of the bills referred to in subsection (a) of this 
section.

    Approved October 27, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4635:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-674 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-988 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-410 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            June 19-21, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 12, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 19, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Oct. 27, Presidential statement.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    ENDNOTE: The following appendixes were added pursuant to the 
provisions of section 1 of this Act.

                                  <all>

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-1]]



                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

                  The table of contents is as follows:

                          APPENDIX A--H.R. 5482

                          APPENDIX B--H.R. 5483

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-3]]



                          APPENDIX A--H.R. 5482

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent 
agencies, boards, commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of veterans 
and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61); pension benefits 
to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 15, 
51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and burial benefits, emergency and 
other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service credits and 
certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life insurance 
policies guaranteed under the provisions of Article IV of the Soldiers' 
and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, and for other 
benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 540-548; 43 Stat. 122, 
123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198), $22,766,276,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $17,419,000 of the amount 
appropriated shall be reimbursed to ``General operating expenses'' and 
``Medical care'' for necessary expenses in implementing those provisions 
authorized in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and in the 
Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. chapters 51, 53, and 55), the 
funding source for which is specifically provided as the ``Compensation 
and pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, That such sums as may be 
earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to 
``Medical facilities revolving fund'' to augment the funding of 
individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided to 
pensioners as authorized.

                          readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or on 
behalf of veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 31, 34, 
35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61, $1,634,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That expenses for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-4]]

rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under section 3104(a) of title 38, United States 
Code, other than under subsection (a)(1), (2), (5) and (11) of that 
section, shall be charged to the account: Provided further, That funds 
shall be available to pay any court order, court award or any compromise 
settlement arising from litigation involving the vocational training 
program authorized by section 18 of Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 19; 
70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487, $19,850,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          veterans housing benefit program fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 2001, within the resources available, not to exceed 
$300,000 in gross obligations for direct loans are authorized for 
specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $162,000,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                   education loan fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $3,400.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $220,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

             vocational rehabilitation loans program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $52,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $2,726,000.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-5]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $432,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, $532,000, 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

  guaranteed transitional housing loans for homeless veterans program 
                                 account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $750,000 of the amounts appropriated by this Act for 
``General operating expenses'' and ``Medical care'' may be expended for 
the administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter VI.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, as 
authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the department; 
and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and equipment; 
funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for beneficiaries 
receiving care in the department; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, real property acquisition and 
disposition, construction and renovation of any facility under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the department; oversight, engineering 
and architectural activities not charged to project cost; repairing, 
altering, improving or providing facilities in the several hospitals and 
homes under the jurisdiction of the department, not otherwise provided 
for, either by contract or by the hire of temporary employees and 
purchase of materials; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; aid to State homes as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1741; 
administrative and legal expenses of the department for collecting and 
recovering amounts owed the department as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 17, and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651 et 
seq., $20,281,587,000, plus reimbursements: Provided, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $900,000,000 is for the equipment and 
land and structures object classifications only, which amount shall not 
become available for obligation until August 1, 2001, and shall remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $500,000,000 shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-6]]

be available until September 30, 2002: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, not to exceed $28,134,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``General 
operating expenses'': Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall conduct by contract a program of recovery audits for the 
fee basis and other medical services contracts with respect to payments 
for hospital care; and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302(b), amounts 
collected, by setoff or otherwise, as the result of such audits shall be 
available, without fiscal year limitation, for the purposes for which 
funds are appropriated under this heading and the purposes of paying a 
contractor a percent of the amount collected as a result of an audit 
carried out by the contractor: Provided further, That all amounts so 
collected under the preceding proviso with respect to a designated 
health care region (as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1729A(d)(2)) 
shall be allocated, net of payments to the contractor, to that region.
    In addition, in conformance with Public Law 105-33 establishing the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Care Collections Fund, such sums 
as may be deposited to such Fund pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1729A may be 
transferred to this account, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of this account.
    None of the foregoing funds may be transferred to the Department of 
Justice for the purposes of supporting tobacco litigation.

                     medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
73, to remain available until September 30, 2002, $351,000,000, plus 
reimbursements.

       medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities, $62,000,000 plus reimbursements: Provided, 
That technical and consulting services offered by the Facilities 
Management Field Service, including project management and real property 
administration (including leases, site acquisition and disposal 
activities directly supporting projects), shall be provided to 
Department of Veterans Affairs components only on a reimbursable basis, 
and such amounts will remain available until September 30, 2001.

                       Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of overseas 
employee mail, $1,050,000,000: Provided, That expenses for services and 
assistance authorized under 38 U.S.C. 3104(a)(1),

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-7]]

(2), (5) and (11) that the Secretary determines are necessary to enable 
entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent feasible, to become 
employable and to obtain and maintain suitable employment; or (2) to 
achieve maximum independence in daily living, shall be charged to this 
account: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, not to exceed $45,000,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2002: Provided further, That funds under this heading shall be 
available to administer the Service Members Occupational Conversion and 
Training Act.

                    national cemetery administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery Administration, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of two passenger motor vehicles for use in cemeterial 
operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $109,889,000: 
Provided, That travel expenses shall not exceed $1,125,000: Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under this heading, not to 
exceed $125,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses''.

                       office of inspector general

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $46,464,000: 
Provided, That of the amount made available under this heading, not to 
exceed $28,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses''.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 38, 
United States Code, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
$4,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made available in a 
previous major project appropriation, $66,040,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That except for advance planning of projects 
(including market-based assessments of health care needs which may or 
may not lead to capital investments) funded through the advance planning 
fund and the design of projects funded through the design fund, none of 
these funds shall be used for any project which has not been considered 
and approved by the Congress in the budgetary process: Provided further, 
That funds provided in this appropriation for fiscal year 2001, for each 
approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a 
construction documents contract by September 30, 2001; and (2) by the 
awarding of a construction contract by

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-8]]

September 30, 2002: Provided further, That the Secretary shall promptly 
report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations any approved major 
construction project in which obligations are not incurred within the 
time limitations established above: Provided further, That no funds from 
any other account except the ``Parking revolving fund'', may be 
obligated for constructing, altering, extending, or improving a project 
which was approved in the budget process and funded in this account 
until 1 year after substantial completion and beneficial occupancy by 
the Department of Veterans Affairs of the project or any part thereof 
with respect to that part only.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 
316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, 8122, and 8162 of 
title 38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project is 
less than $4,000,000, $162,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
along with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor 
projects'' appropriations which are hereby made available for any 
project where the estimated cost is less than $4,000,000: Provided, That 
funds in this account shall be available for: (1) repairs to any of the 
nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
department which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any 
natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to 
prevent or to minimize further loss by such causes.

                         parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109, 
income from fees collected, to remain available until expended, which 
shall be available for all authorized expenses except operations and 
maintenance costs, which will be funded from ``Medical care''.

        grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or alter existing 
hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in State homes, for 
furnishing care to veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8131-8137, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until expended.

        grants for the construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veterans cemeteries as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 2408, $25,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-9]]

                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. Any appropriation for fiscal year 2001 for ``Compensation 
and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and 
indemnities'' may be transferred to any other of the mentioned 
appropriations.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2001 for salaries and expenses shall be 
available for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'', and the ``Parking 
revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for or 
toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 104. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs shall be available for hospitalization or examination 
of any persons (except beneficiaries entitled under the laws bestowing 
such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under 5 
U.S.C. 7901-7904 or 42 U.S.C. 5141-5204), unless reimbursement of cost 
is made to the ``Medical care'' account at such rates as may be fixed by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2001 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
shall be available for payment of prior year accrued obligations 
required to be recorded by law against the corresponding prior year 
accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations accounts available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2001 shall be available to pay prior 
year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund accounts 
they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 2001, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the National 
Service Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1920), the Veterans' Special Life 
Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1923), and the United States Government Life 
Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1955), reimburse the ``General operating 
expenses'' account for the cost of administration of the insurance 
programs financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement 
shall be made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in an insurance 
program in fiscal year 2001, that are available for dividends in that 
program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined reserves 
have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of an insurance program exceeds the amount of surplus 
earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be made only 
to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for fiscal year 
2001, which is properly allocable to the provision of each insurance 
program and to the provision of any total disability income insurance 
included in such insurance program.
    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, collections 
authorized by the Veterans Millennium Health Care and Benefits Act 
(Public Law 106-117) and credited to the appropriate

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-10]]

Department of Veterans Affairs accounts in fiscal year 2001, shall not 
be available for obligation or expenditure unless appropriation language 
making such funds available is enacted.
    Sec. 109. In accordance with section 1557 of title 31, United States 
Code, the following obligated balance shall be exempt from subchapter IV 
of chapter 15 of such title and shall remain available for expenditure 
until September 30, 2003: funds obligated by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for a contract with the Institute for Clinical Research to study 
the application of artificial neural networks to the diagnosis and 
treatment of prostate cancer through the Cooperative DoD/VA Medical 
Research program from funds made available to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs by the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public 
Law 103-335) under the heading ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide''.
    Sec. 110. As HR LINK$ will not be part of the Franchise Fund in 
fiscal year 2001, funds budgeted in customer accounts to purchase HR 
LINK$ services from the Franchise Fund shall be transferred to the 
General Administration portion of the ``General operating expenses'' 
appropriation in the following amounts: $78,000 from the ``Office of 
Inspector General'', $358,000 from the ``National cemetery 
administration'', $1,106,000 from ``Medical care'', $84,000 from 
``Medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses'', and 
$38,000 shall be reprogrammed within the ``General operating expenses'' 
appropriation from the Veterans Benefits Administration to General 
Administration for the same purpose.
    Sec. 111. Not to exceed $1,600,000 from the ``Medical care'' 
appropriation shall be transferred to the ``General operating expenses'' 
appropriation to fund personnel services costs of employees providing 
legal services and administrative support for the Office of General 
Counsel.
    Sec. 112. Not to exceed $1,200,000 may be transferred from the 
``Medical care'' appropriation to the ``General operating expenses'' 
appropriation to fund contracts and services in support of the Veterans 
Benefits Administration's Benefits Delivery Center, Systems Development 
Center, and Finance Center, located at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Hines, Illinois.
    Sec. 113. Not to exceed $4,500,000 from the ``Construction, minor 
projects'' appropriation and not to exceed $2,000,000 from the ``Medical 
care'' appropriation may be transferred to and merged with the Parking 
Revolving Fund for surface parking lot projects.
    Sec. 114. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for 
``Medical care'' appropriations of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
may be obligated for the realignment of the health care delivery system 
in Veterans Integrated Service Network 12 (VISN 12) until 60 days after 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs certifies that the Department has: (1) 
consulted with veterans organizations, medical school affiliates, 
employee representatives, State veterans and health associations, and 
other interested parties with respect to the realignment plan to be 
implemented; and (2) made available to the Congress and the public 
information from the consultations regarding possible impacts on the 
accessibility of veterans health care services to affected veterans.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-11]]

          TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                        Public and Indian Housing

                        housing certificate fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For activities and assistance to prevent the involuntary 
displacement of low-income families, the elderly and the disabled 
because of the loss of affordable housing stock, expiration of subsidy 
contracts (other than contracts for which amounts are provided under 
another heading in this Act) or expiration of use restrictions, or other 
changes in housing assistance arrangements, and for other purposes, 
$13,940,907,000 and amounts that are recaptured in this account to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount 
provided under this heading, $13,430,000,000, of which $9,230,000,000 
shall be available on October 1, 2000 and $4,200,000,000 shall be 
available on October 1, 2001, shall be for assistance under the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 1437): 
Provided further, That the foregoing amounts shall be for use in 
connection with expiring or terminating section 8 subsidy contracts, for 
amendments to section 8 subsidy contracts, for enhanced vouchers 
(including amendments and renewals) under any provision of law 
authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (47 U.S.C. 1437f(t)), contract administrators, and 
contracts entered into pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. 
McKinney Homeless Assistance Act: Provided further, That amounts 
available under the first proviso under this heading shall be available 
for section 8 rental assistance under the Act: (1) for the relocation 
and replacement of housing units that are demolished or disposed of 
pursuant to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 or to 
other authority for the revitalization of severely distressed public 
housing, as set forth in the appropriations Acts for the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies for fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1997, and in the Omnibus 
Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996; (2) for the 
conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 8; (3) for 
funds to carry out the family unification program; (4) for the 
relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to combat crime in 
public and assisted housing pursuant to a request from a law enforcement 
or prosecution agency; (5) for tenant protection assistance, including 
replacement and relocation assistance; and (6) for the 1-year renewal of 
section 8 contracts for units in a project that is subject to an 
approved plan of action under the Emergency Low Income Housing 
Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and 
Resident Homeownership Act of 1990: Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading, $11,000,000 shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund for the development and maintenance of 
information technology systems: Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading, $40,000,000 shall be made available 
to nonelderly disabled families affected by the designation of a public 
housing development under section 7 of the Act, the establishment of 
preferences in accordance with section 651 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1992 (42

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-12]]

U.S.C. 1361l), or the restriction of occupancy to elderly families in 
accordance with section 658 of such Act, and to the extent the Secretary 
determines that such amount is not needed to fund applications for such 
affected families, to other nonelderly disabled families: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
$452,907,000 shall be made available for incremental vouchers under 
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 on a fair share basis 
and administered by public housing agencies: Provided further, That of 
the total amount provided under this heading, up to $7,000,000 shall be 
made available for the completion of the Jobs Plus Demonstration: 
Provided further, That amounts available under this heading may be made 
available for administrative fees and other expenses to cover the cost 
of administering rental assistance programs under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937: Provided further, That the fee 
otherwise authorized under section 8(q) of such Act shall be determined 
in accordance with section 8(q), as in effect immediately before the 
enactment of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998: 
Provided further, That $1,833,000,000 is rescinded from unobligated 
balances remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development under this heading or the heading ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'' or any other heading for fiscal 
year 2000 and prior years: Provided further, That any such balances 
governed by reallocation provisions under the statute authorizing the 
program for which the funds were originally appropriated shall not be 
available for this rescission: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall have until September 30, 2001, to meet the rescission in the 
proviso preceding the immediately preceding proviso: Provided further, 
That any obligated balances of contract authority that have been 
terminated shall be canceled.

                       public housing capital fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital and 
management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized under 
section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1437), $3,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which up to $50,000,000 shall be for carrying out activities under 
section 9(h) of such Act, for lease adjustments to section 23 projects 
and $43,000,000 shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund for the 
development and maintenance of information technology systems: Provided, 
That no funds may be used under this heading for the purposes specified 
in section 9(k) of the United States Housing Act of 1937: Provided 
further, That of the total amount, up to $75,000,000 shall be available 
for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to make grants to 
public housing agencies for emergency capital needs resulting from 
emergencies and natural disasters in fiscal year 2001.

                      public housing operating fund

    For payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-13]]

1437g), $3,242,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no funds may be used under this heading for the purposes specified 
in section 9(k) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

             drug elimination grants for low-income housing

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants to public housing agencies and Indian tribes and their 
tribally designated housing entities for use in eliminating crime in 
public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11901-11908, for grants 
for federally assisted low-income housing authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11909, 
and for drug information clearinghouse services authorized by 42 U.S.C. 
11921-11925, $310,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the total amount provided under this heading, up to $3,000,000 
shall be solely for technical assistance, technical assistance grants, 
training, and program assessment for or on behalf of public housing 
agencies, resident organizations, and Indian tribes and their tribally 
designated housing entities (including up to $150,000 for the cost of 
necessary travel for participants in such training) for oversight, 
training and improved management of this program, $2,000,000 shall be 
available to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America for the operating and 
start-up costs of clubs located in or near, and primarily serving 
residents of, public housing and housing assisted under the Native 
American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, and 
$10,000,000 shall be used in connection with efforts to combat violent 
crime in public and assisted housing under the Operation Safe Home 
Program administered by the Inspector General of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development: Provided further, That of the amount 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be provided to the Office of 
Inspector General for Operation Safe Home: Provided further, That of the 
amount under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be available for the New 
Approach Anti-Drug program which will provide competitive grants to 
entities managing or operating public housing developments, federally 
assisted multifamily housing developments, or other multifamily housing 
developments for low-income families supported by non-Federal 
governmental entities or similar housing developments supported by 
nonprofit private sources in order to provide or augment security 
(including personnel costs), to assist in the investigation and/or 
prosecution of drug-related criminal activity in and around such 
developments, and to provide assistance for the development of capital 
improvements at such developments directly relating to the security of 
such developments: Provided further, That grants for the New Approach 
Anti-Drug program shall be made on a competitive basis as specified in 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989.

     revitalization of severely distressed public housing (hope vi)

    For grants to public housing agencies for demolition, site 
revitalization, replacement housing, and tenant-based assistance grants 
to projects as authorized by section 24 of the United States Housing Act 
of 1937, $575,000,000 to remain available until expended, of which the 
Secretary may use up to $10,000,000 for technical assistance and 
contract expertise, to be provided directly

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-14]]

or indirectly by grants, contracts or cooperative agreements, including 
training and cost of necessary travel for participants in such training, 
by or to officials and employees of the department and of public housing 
agencies and to residents: Provided, That none of such funds shall be 
used directly or indirectly by granting competitive advantage in awards 
to settle litigation or pay judgments, unless expressly permitted 
herein.

                  native american housing block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (Public Law 104-330), $650,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $6,000,000 shall be to 
support the inspection of Indian housing units, contract expertise, 
training, and technical assistance in the training, oversight, and 
management of Indian housing and tenant-based assistance, including up 
to $300,000 for related travel: Provided, That of the amount provided 
under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of 
guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of 
NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs, including the costs of 
modifying such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize the total 
principal amount of any notes and other obligations, any part of which 
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $54,600,000: Provided further, That 
for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, up 
to $150,000 from amounts in the first proviso, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
expenses'', to be used only for the administrative costs of these 
guarantees: Provided further, That of the amount provided in this 
heading, $2,000,000 shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund for 
development and maintaining information technology systems.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 3739), 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total loan 
principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$71,956,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, up to $200,000 from amounts in the first paragraph, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries 
and expenses'', to be used only for the administrative costs of these 
guarantees.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-15]]

                   Community Planning and Development

               housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901), $258,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts that were funded under 
section 854(c)(3) of such Act that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts and activities authorized under this 
section: Provided further, That the Secretary may use up to 1 percent of 
the funds under this heading for training, oversight, and technical 
assistance activities.

                 rural housing and economic development

    For the Office of Rural Housing and Economic Development in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, $25,000,000 to remain 
available until expended, which amount shall be awarded by June 1, 2001, 
to Indian tribes, State housing finance agencies, State community and/or 
economic development agencies, local rural nonprofits and community 
development corporations to support innovative housing and economic 
development activities in rural areas: Provided, That all grants shall 
be awarded on a competitive basis as specified in section 102 of the HUD 
Reform Act.

                empowerment zones/enterprise communities

    For grants in connection with a second round of empowerment zones 
and enterprise communities, $90,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That $75,000,000 shall be available for the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for ``Urban Empowerment 
Zones'', as authorized in the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, including 
$5,000,000 for each empowerment zone for use in conjunction with 
economic development activities consistent with the strategic plan of 
each empowerment zone: Provided further, That $15,000,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Agriculture for grants for designated 
empowerment zones in rural areas and for grants for designated rural 
enterprise communities.

                       community development fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For assistance to units of State and local government, and to other 
entities, for economic and community development activities, and for 
other purposes, $5,057,550,000: Provided, That of the amount provided, 
$4,409,000,000 is for carrying out the community development block grant 
program under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, as amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 5301), to remain 
available until September 30, 2003: Provided further, That $71,000,000 
shall be for grants to Indian tribes notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) 
of such Act, $3,000,000 shall be available as a grant to the Housing 
Assistance Council, $2,600,000 shall be available as a grant to the 
National American Indian Housing Council, $10,000,000 shall be available 
as a grant to the National Housing Development Corporation, for 
operating expenses not to exceed $2,000,000 and for a program

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-16]]

of affordable housing acquisition and rehabilitation, and $45,500,000 
shall be for grants pursuant to section 107 of the Act of which 
$3,000,000 shall be made available to support Alaska Native serving 
institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions, as defined under 
the Higher Education Act, as amended, and of which $3,000,000 shall be 
made available to tribal colleges and universities to build, expand, 
renovate, and equip their facilities: Provided further, That not to 
exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated herein 
(other than a grant made available in this paragraph to the Housing 
Assistance Council or the National American Indian Housing Council, or a 
grant using funds under section 107(b)(3) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended) shall be expended for ``Planning 
and Management Development'' and ``Administration'' as defined in 
regulations promulgated by the department: Provided further, That 
$15,000,000 shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund for the 
development and maintenance of information technology systems: Provided 
further, That $20,000,000 shall be for grants pursuant to the Self Help 
Housing Opportunity Program.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $28,450,000 shall 
be made available for capacity building, of which $25,000,000 shall be 
made available for ``Capacity Building for Community Development and 
Affordable Housing'', for LISC and the Enterprise Foundation for 
activities as authorized by section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 
1993 (Public Law 103-120), as in effect immediately before June 12, 
1997, of which not less than $5,000,000 of the funding shall be used in 
rural areas, including tribal areas, and of which $3,450,000 shall be 
made available for capacity building activities administered by Habitat 
for Humanity International.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use up to $55,000,000 for supportive 
services for public housing residents, as authorized by section 34 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and for residents of 
housing assisted under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) and for grants for service 
coordinators and congregate services for the elderly and disabled 
residents of public and assisted housing and housing assisted under 
NAHASDA.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $44,000,000 shall 
be available for neighborhood initiatives that are utilized to improve 
the conditions of distressed and blighted areas and neighborhoods, to 
stimulate investment, economic diversification, and community 
revitalization in areas with population outmigration or a stagnating or 
declining economic base, or to determine whether housing benefits can be 
integrated more effectively with welfare reform initiatives: Provided, 
that any unobligated balances of amounts set aside for neighborhood 
initiatives in fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000 may be utilized for any 
of the foregoing purposes: Provided further, That these grants shall be 
provided in accord with the terms and conditions specified in the 
statement of managers accompanying this conference report.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $60,000,000 shall be available for YouthBuild 
program activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, and such 
activities shall be an eligible activity with respect to any funds made 
available under this heading: Provided,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-17]]

That local YouthBuild programs that demonstrate an ability to leverage 
private and nonprofit funding shall be given a priority for YouthBuild 
funding: Provided further, That no more than 10 percent of any grant 
award may be used for administrative costs: Provided further, That not 
less than $10,000,000 shall be available for grants to establish 
YouthBuild programs in underserved and rural areas: Provided further, 
That of the amount provided under this paragraph, $4,000,000 shall be 
set aside and made available for a grant to Youthbuild USA for capacity 
building for community development and affordable housing activities as 
specified in section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993, as amended.
    Of the amounts made available under this heading, $2,000,000 shall 
be available to the Utah Housing Finance Agency for the temporary use of 
relocatable housing during the 2002 Winter Olympic Games provided such 
housing is targeted to the housing needs of low-income families after 
the Games.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $292,000,000 shall 
be available for grants for the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) to 
finance a variety of targeted economic investments in accordance with 
the terms and conditions specified in the statement of managers 
accompanying this conference report.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $29,000,000, as authorized by 
section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,261,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation 
on outstanding obligations guaranteed in section 108(k) of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974: Provided further, That in 
addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, $1,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Salaries and expenses''.

                        brownfields redevelopment

    For Economic Development Grants, as authorized by section 108(q) of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, for 
Brownfields redevelopment projects, $25,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall make these grants available on a competitive basis as 
specified in section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Reform Act of 1989.

                  home investment partnerships program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $1,800,000,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That up to $20,000,000 of these funds shall be available for Housing 
Counseling under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
1968: Provided further, That $17,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
Working Capital Fund for the development and maintenance of information 
technology systems.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-18]]

                       homeless assistance grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act, as amended); the supportive housing program (as authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized under the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist homeless 
individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the shelter plus care program (as authorized under 
subtitle F of title IV of such Act), $1,025,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not less than 30 percent of these funds 
shall be used for permanent housing, and all funding for services must 
be matched by 25 percent in funding by each grantee: Provided further, 
That all awards of assistance under this heading shall be required to 
coordinate and integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, 
social services, and employment programs for which homeless populations 
may be eligible, including Medicaid, State Children's Health Insurance 
Program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Food Stamps, and 
services funding through the Mental Health and Substance Abuse Block 
Grant, Workforce Investment Act, and the Welfare-to-Work grant program: 
Provided further, That up to 1.5 percent of the funds appropriated under 
this heading is transferred to the Working Capital Fund to be used for 
technical assistance for management information systems and to develop 
an automated, client-level Annual Performance Report System: Provided 
further, That $500,000 shall be made available to the Interagency 
Council on the Homeless for administrative needs.

                       shelter plus care renewals

    For the renewal on an annual basis of contracts expiring during 
fiscal years 2001 and 2002 under the Shelter Plus Care program, as 
authorized under subtitle F of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That each Shelter Plus Care project with an 
expiring contract shall be eligible for renewal only if the project is 
determined to be needed under the applicable continuum of care and meets 
appropriate program requirements and financial standards, as determined 
by the Secretary.

                            Housing Programs

                     housing for special populations

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For assistance for the purchase, construction, acquisition, or 
development of additional public and subsidized housing units for low 
income families not otherwise provided for, $996,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $779,000,000 shall be for 
capital advances, including amendments to capital advance contracts, for 
housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act 
of 1959, as amended, and for project rental

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-19]]

assistance, and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, 
for the elderly under such section 202(c)(2), and for supportive 
services associated with the housing, of which amount $50,000,000 shall 
be for service coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate 
service grants for residents of assisted housing projects and of which 
amount $50,000,000 shall be for grants under section 202b of the Housing 
Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q-2) for conversion of eligible projects 
under such section to assisted living or related use: Provided further, 
That of the amount under this heading, $217,000,000 shall be for capital 
advances, including amendments to capital advance contracts, for 
supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by 
section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, 
for project rental assistance, for amendments to contracts for project 
rental assistance, and supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811 of such Act: 
Provided further, That $1,000,000, to be divided evenly between the 
appropriations for the section 202 and section 811 programs, shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund for the development and 
maintenance of information technology systems: Provided further, That 
the Secretary may designate up to 25 percent of the amounts earmarked 
under this paragraph for section 811 of such Act for tenant-based 
assistance, as authorized under that section, including such authority 
as may be waived under the next proviso, which assistance is 5 years in 
duration: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive any provision 
of such section 202 and such section 811 (including the provisions 
governing the terms and conditions of project rental assistance and 
tenant-based assistance) that the Secretary determines is not necessary 
to achieve the objectives of these programs, or that otherwise impedes 
the ability to develop, operate, or administer projects assisted under 
these programs, and may make provision for alternative conditions or 
terms where appropriate.

                          flexible subsidy fund

                           (transfer of funds)

    From the Rental Housing Assistance Fund, all uncommitted balances of 
excess rental charges as of September 30, 2000, and any collections made 
during fiscal year 2001, shall be transferred to the Flexible Subsidy 
Fund, as authorized by section 236(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended.

                     Federal Housing Administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 2001, commitments to guarantee loans to carry out 
the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed a loan principal of $160,000,000,000.
    During fiscal year 2001, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $250,000,000: Provided, That

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-20]]

the foregoing amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental 
entities in connection with sales of single family real properties owned 
by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage 
Insurance Fund.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $330,888,000, of which not to exceed 
$324,866,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for ``Salaries 
and expenses''; and not to exceed $4,022,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for ``Office of Inspector General''. In addition, for 
administrative contract expenses, $160,000,000, of which $96,500,000 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund for the development and 
maintenance of information technology systems: Provided, That to the 
extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $65,500,000,000 on or before 
April 1, 2001 an additional $1,400 for administrative contract expenses 
shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan 
commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount below 
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this proviso 
exceed $16,000,000.

              fha--general and special risk program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), including 
the cost of loan guarantee modifications (as that term is defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended), 
$101,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which 
is to be guaranteed, of up to $21,000,000,000: Provided further, That 
any amounts made available in any prior appropriations Act for the cost 
(as such term is defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974) of guaranteed loans that are obligations of the funds 
established under section 238 or 519 of the National Housing Act that 
have not been obligated or that are deobligated shall be available to 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in connection with the 
making of such guarantees and shall remain available until expended, 
notwithstanding the expiration of any period of availability otherwise 
applicable to such amounts.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, and 519(a) of the National 
Housing Act, shall not exceed $50,000,000; of which not to exceed 
$30,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with the sale of 
multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured 
under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for 
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection with the sale 
of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly 
insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $211,455,000, of which 
$193,134,000, shall be transferred to the appropriation for ``Salaries 
and expenses''; and of which $18,321,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for ``Office of Inspector General''. In addition, for 
administrative contract expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan programs, $144,000,000, of which $33,500,000 shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-21]]

Fund for the development and maintenance of information technology 
systems: Provided, That to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
$8,426,000,000 on or before April 1, 2001, an additional $19,800,000 for 
administrative contract expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 
in additional guaranteed loan commitments over $8,426,000,000 (including 
a pro rata amount for any increment below $1,000,000), but in no case 
shall funds made available by this proviso exceed $14,400,000.

                Government National Mortgage Association

 guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), 
shall not exceed $200,000,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2002.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $9,383,000 to be derived from the 
GNMA guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $9,383,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for ``Salaries and expenses''.

                     Policy Development and Research

                         research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $53,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be for the Partnership 
for Advancing Technology in Housing (PATH) Initiative: Provided further, 
That $3,000,000 shall be for program evaluation to support strategic 
planning, performance measurement, and their coordination with the 
Department's budget process: Provided further, That $500,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for a commission as established under 
section 525 of Preserving Affordable Housing for Senior Citizens and 
Families into the 21st Century Act.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                         fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$46,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, of which 
$24,000,000 shall be to carry out activities pursuant to such section 
561: Provided, That no funds made available under this heading shall be 
used to lobby the executive or

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-22]]

legislative branches of the Federal Government in connection with a 
specific contract, grant or loan.

                      Office of Lead Hazard Control

                          lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by sections 
1011 and 1053 of the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 
1992, $100,000,000 to remain available until expended, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for CLEARCorps and $10,000,000 shall be for the 
Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to sections 501 and 502 of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 that shall include research, 
studies, testing, and demonstration efforts, including education and 
outreach concerning lead-based paint poisoning and other housing-related 
environmental diseases and hazards.

                      Management and Administration

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided for, 
including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $1,072,000,000, of which $518,000,000 shall be provided from 
the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, $9,383,000 
shall be provided from funds of the Government National Mortgage 
Association, $1,000,000 shall be provided from the ``Community 
development fund'' account, $150,000 shall be provided by transfer from 
the ``Title VI Indian federal guarantees program'' account, and $200,000 
shall be provided by transfer from the ``Indian housing loan guarantee 
fund program'' account: Provided, That the Secretary is prohibited from 
using any funds under this heading or any other heading in this Act from 
employing more than 77 schedule C and 20 noncareer Senior Executive 
Service employees: Provided further, That not more than $758,000,000 
shall be made available to the personal services object class: Provided 
further, That no less than $100,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
Working Capital Fund for the development and maintenance of Information 
Technology Systems: Provided further, That the Secretary shall fill 7 
out of 10 vacancies at the GS-14 and GS-15 levels until the total number 
of GS-14 and GS-15 positions in the Department has been reduced from the 
number of GS-14 and GS-15 positions on the date of enactment of this 
provision by 2\1/2\ percent: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
submit a staffing plan for the Department by May 15, 2001: Provided 
further, That the Secretary is prohibited from using funds under this 
heading or any other heading in this Act to employ more than 14 
employees in the Office of Public Affairs or in any position in the 
Department where the employee reports to an employee of the Office of 
Public Affairs.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-23]]

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $85,000,000, 
of which $22,343,000 shall be provided from the various funds of the 
Federal Housing Administration and $10,000,000 shall be provided from 
the amount earmarked for Operation Safe Home in the appropriation for 
``Drug elimination grants for low-income housing'': Provided, That the 
Inspector General shall have independent authority over all personnel 
issues within the Office of Inspector General.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety and 
Soundness Act of 1992, including not to exceed $500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, $22,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Federal Housing Enterprise 
Oversight Fund: Provided, That not to exceed such amount shall be 
available from the general fund of the Treasury to the extent necessary 
to incur obligations and make expenditures pending the receipt of 
collections to the Fund: Provided further, That the general fund amount 
shall be reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so 
as to result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
not more than $0.

                        Administrative Provisions

                      financing adjustment factors

    Sec. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 
1988 (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3224, 3268) shall be rescinded, or 
in the case of cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts 
of budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to 
the Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement occurred 
after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. Notwithstanding 
the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the 
budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to refinance their 
project at a lower interest rate.

                      fair housing and free speech

    Sec. 202. None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2001 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a non-frivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-24]]

purpose of achieving or preventing action by a Government official or 
entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.

           housing opportunities for persons with aids grants

    Sec. 203. (a) Eligibility.--Notwithstanding section 854(c)(1)(A) of 
the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)(1)(A)), from any 
amounts made available under this title for fiscal year 2001 that are 
allocated under such section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall allocate and make a grant, in the amount determined 
under subsection (b), for any State that--
            (1) received an allocation in a prior fiscal year under 
        clause (ii) of such section; and
            (2) is not otherwise eligible for an allocation for fiscal 
        year 2001 under such clause (ii) because the areas in the State 
        outside of the metropolitan statistical areas that qualify under 
        clause (i) in fiscal year 2001 do not have the number of cases 
        of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome required under such 
        clause.

    (b) Amount.--The amount of the allocation and grant for any State 
described in subsection (a) shall be an amount based on the cumulative 
number of AIDS cases in the areas of that State that are outside of 
metropolitan statistical areas that qualify under clause (i) of such 
section 854(c)(1)(A) in fiscal year 2001, in proportion to AIDS cases 
among cities and States that qualify under clauses (i) and (ii) of such 
section and States deemed eligible under subsection (a).
    (c) Environmental Review.--Section 856 of the Act is amended by 
adding the following new subsection at the end:
    ``(h) Environmental Review.--For purposes of environmental review, a 
grant under this subtitle shall be treated as assistance for a special 
project that is subject to section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing 
Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994, and shall be subject to the 
regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such section.''.

                     enhanced disposition authority

    Sec. 204. Section 204 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1997, is amended by striking ``and 2000'' and inserting ``2000, and 
thereafter''.

             maximum payment standard for enhanced vouchers

    Sec. 205. Section 8(t)(1)(B) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 is amended by inserting ``and any other reasonable limit prescribed 
by the Secretary'' immediately before the semicolon.

                   due process for homeless assistance

    Sec. 206. None of the funds appropriated under this or any other Act 
may be used by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to 
prohibit or debar or in any way diminish the responsibilities of any 
entity (and the individuals comprising that entity) that is responsible 
for convening and managing a continuum of care process (convenor) in a 
community for purposes of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act from participating in that capacity unless the Secretary has 
published in the Federal

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-25]]

Register a description of all circumstances that would be grounds for 
prohibiting or debarring a convenor from administering a continuum of 
care process and the procedures for a prohibition or debarment: 
Provided, That these procedures shall include a requirement that a 
convenor shall be provided with timely notice of a proposed prohibition 
or debarment, an identification of the circumstances that could result 
in the prohibition or debarment, an opportunity to respond to or remedy 
these circumstances, and the right for judicial review of any decision 
of the Secretary that results in a prohibition or debarment.

                        hud reform act compliance

    Sec. 207. Except as explicitly provided in legislation, any grant or 
assistance made pursuant to title II of this Act shall be made in 
accordance with section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Reform Act of 1989 on a competitive basis.

expansion of environmental assumption authority for homeless assistance 
                                programs

    Sec. 208. Section 443 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 443. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.

    ``For purposes of environmental review, assistance and projects 
under this title shall be treated as assistance for special projects 
that are subject to section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing Property 
Disposition Reform Act of 1994, and shall be subject to the regulations 
issued by the Secretary to implement such section.''.

    technical amendments and corrections to the national housing act

    Sec. 209. (a) Section 203 Subsection Designations.--Section 203 of 
the National Housing Act is amended by--
            (1) redesignating subsection (t) as subsection (u);
            (2) redesignating subsection (s), as added by section 329 of 
        the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
        subsection (t); and
            (3) redesignating subsection (v), as added by section 504 of 
        the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, as subsection 
        (w).

    (b) Mortgage Auctions.--The first sentence of section 
221(g)(4)(C)(viii) of the National Housing Act is amended by inserting 
after ``December 31, 2002'' the following: ``, except that this 
subparagraph shall continue to apply if the Secretary receives a 
mortgagee's written notice of intent to assign its mortgage to the 
Secretary on or before such date''.
    (c) Mortgagee Review Board.--Section 202(c)(2) of the National 
Housing Act is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'';
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``or their designees.'' 
        and inserting ``and''; and
            (3) by adding the following new subparagraph at the end:
                    ``(G) the Director of the Enforcement Center; or 
                their designees.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-26]]

                   indian housing block grant program

    Sec. 210. Section 201(b) of the Native American Housing Assistance 
and Self-Determination Act of 1996 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (5) and (6) respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) Law enforcement officers.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
        (1), a recipient may provide housing or housing assistance 
        provided through affordable housing activities assisted with 
        grant amounts under this Act to a law enforcement officer on the 
        reservation or other Indian area, who is employed full-time by a 
        Federal, State, county or tribal government, and in implementing 
        such full-time employment is sworn to uphold, and make arrests 
        for violations of Federal, State, county or tribal law, if the 
        recipient determines that the presence of the law enforcement 
        officer on the Indian reservation or other Indian area may deter 
        crime.''.

 prohibition on the use of federal assistance in support of the sale of 
                            tobacco products

    Sec. 211. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
may be used by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to provide 
any grant or other assistance to construct, operate, or otherwise 
benefit a facility, or facility with a designated portion of that 
facility, which sells, or intends to sell, predominantly cigarettes or 
other tobacco products. For the purposes of this provision, predominant 
sale of cigarettes or other tobacco products means cigarette or tobacco 
sales representing more than 35 percent of the annual total in-store, 
non-fuel, sales.

      prohibition on implementation of puerto rico public housing 
                   administration settlement agreement

    Sec. 212. No funds may be used to implement the agreement between 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Puerto Rico Public Housing 
Administration, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
dated June 7, 2000, related to the allocation of operating subsidies for 
the Puerto Rico Public Housing Administration unless the Puerto Rico 
Public Housing Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development submit by December 31, 2000 a schedule of benchmarks and 
measurable goals to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
designed to address issues of mismanagement and safeguards against fraud 
and abuse.

                    hope vi grant for hollander ridge

    Sec. 213. The Housing Authority of Baltimore City may use the grant 
award of $20,000,000 made to such authority for development efforts at 
Hollander Ridge in Baltimore, Maryland with funds appropriated for 
fiscal year 1996 under the heading ``Public Housing Demolition, Site 
Revitalization, and Replacement Housing Grants'' for use, as approved by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development--
            (1) for activities related to the revitalization of the 
        Hollander Ridge site; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-27]]

            (2) in accordance with section 24 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937.

              computer access for public housing residents

    Sec. 214. (a) Use of Public Housing Capital and Operating Funds.--
Section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1)(E), by inserting before the 
        semicolon the following: ``, including the establishment and 
        initial operation of computer centers in and around public 
        housing through a Neighborhood Networks initiative, for the 
        purpose of enhancing the self-sufficiency, employability, and 
        economic self-reliance of public housing residents by providing 
        them with onsite computer access and training resources'';
            (2) in subsection (e)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (J), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) the costs of operating computer centers in 
                public housing through a Neighborhood Networks 
                initiative described in subsection (d)(1)(E), and of 
                activities related to that initiative.''; and
            (3) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (7), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) assistance in connection with the establishment and 
        operation of computer centers in public housing through a 
        Neighborhood Networks initiative described in subsection 
        (d)(1)(E).''.

    (b) Demolition, Site Revitalization, Replacement Housing, and 
Tenant-Based Assistance Grants for Projects.--Section 24 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(1)(G), by inserting before the 
        semicolon the following: ``, including a Neighborhood Networks 
        initiative for the establishment and operation of computer 
        centers in public housing for the purpose of enhancing the self-
        sufficiency, employability, an economic self-reliance of public 
        housing residents by providing them with onsite computer access 
        and training resources''; and
            (2) in subsection (m)(2), in the first sentence, by 
        inserting before the period the following: ``, including 
        assistance in connection with the establishment and operation of 
        computer centers in public housing through the Neighborhoods 
        Networks initiative described in subsection (d)(1)(G)''.

                          mark-to-market reform

    Sec. 215. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the properties 
known as the Hawthornes in Independence, Missouri shall be considered 
eligible multifamily housing projects for purposes of participating in 
the multifamily housing restructuring program pursuant to title V of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-65).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-28]]

                        section 236 excess income

    Sec. 216. Section 236(g)(3)(A) of the National Housing Act is 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2000'' and inserting ``fiscal years 
2000 and 2001''.

                            cdbg eligibility

    Sec. 217. Section 102(a)(6)(D) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 is amended by--
            (1) in clause (v), striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (vi), striking the period at the end; and
            (3) adding at the end the following new clause:

    ``(vii)(I) has consolidated its government with one or more 
municipal governments, such that within the county boundaries there are 
no unincorporated areas; (II) has a population of not less than 650,000; 
(III) for more than 10 years, has been classified as a metropolitan city 
for purposes of allocating and distributing funds under section 106; and 
(IV) as of the date of enactment of this clause, has over 90 percent of 
the county's population within the jurisdiction of the consolidated 
government; or
    ``(viii) notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any 
county that was classified as an urban county pursuant to subparagraph 
(A) for fiscal year 1999, at the option of the county, may hereafter 
remain classified as an urban county for purposes of this Act.''.

  exemption for alaska and mississippi from requirement of resident on 
                              board of pha

    Sec. 218. Public housing agencies in the States of Alaska and 
Mississippi shall not be required to comply with section 2(b) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, during fiscal year 2001.

              use of moderate rehabilitation funds for home

    Sec. 219. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development shall make the funds available under 
contracts NY36K113004 and NY36K113005 of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development available for use under the HOME Investment 
Partnerships Act and shall allocate such funds to the City of New 
Rochelle, New York.

                        loma linda reprogramming

    Sec. 220. Of the amounts made available under the sixth undesignated 
paragraph under the heading ``Community Planning and Development--
Community Development Block Grants'' in title II of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-276) for the Economic 
Development Initiative (EDI) for grants for targeted economic 
investments, the $1,000,000 to be made available (pursuant to the 
related provisions of the joint explanatory statement in the conference 
report to accompany such Act (House Report 105-769)) to the City of Loma 
Linda, California, for infrastructure improvements at Redlands Boulevard 
and California Streets shall, notwithstanding such provisions, be

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-29]]

made available to the City for infrastructure improvements related to 
the Mountain View Bridge.

            native american eligibility for the ross program

    Sec. 221. (a) Section 34 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``PUBLIC HOUSING'' and 
        inserting ``PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting after ``residents,'' the following: 
                ``recipients under the Native American Housing 
                Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
                (notwithstanding section 502 of such Act) on behalf of 
                residents of housing assisted under such Act,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``public housing residents'' 
                the second place it appears the following: ``and 
                residents of housing assisted under such Act'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting after ``project'' the first place 
                it appears the following: ``or the property of a 
                recipient under such Act or housing assisted under such 
                Act'';
                    (B) by inserting after ``public housing residents'' 
                the following: ``or residents of housing assisted under 
                such Act''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting after 
                ``public housing project'' the following: ``or residents 
                of housing assisted under such Act''; and
            (4) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``State or local'' and 
        inserting ``State, local, or tribal''.

    (b) Assessment and Report.--Section 538(b)(1) of the Quality Housing 
and Work Responsibility Act of 1998 is amended by inserting after 
``public housing'' the following: ``and housing assisted under the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996''.

      treatment of expiring economic development initiative grants

    Sec. 222. (a) Availability.--Section 220(a) of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-74; 113 Stat. 1075) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2000'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2001''.
    (b) Applicability.--The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development shall take such actions as may be 
necessary to carry out such section 220 (as amended by this subsection 
(a) of this section) notwithstanding any actions taken previously 
pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, United States Code.

            home program disaster funding for elderly housing

    Sec. 223. Of the amounts made available under chapter IX of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1993 for assistance under the HOME 
investment partnerships program to the City of Homestead, Florida 
(Public Law 103-50; 107 Stat. 262), up to $583,926.70 shall be made 
available to Dade County, Florida, for use only

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-30]]

for rehabilitating housing for low-income elderly persons, and such 
amount shall not be subject to the requirements of such program, except 
for section 288 of the HOME Investment Partnerships Act (42 U.S.C. 
12838).

                        cdbg public services cap

    Sec. 224. Section 105(a)(8) of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974 is amended by striking ``1993'' and all that follows through 
``City of Los Angeles'' and inserting ``1993 through 2001 to the City of 
Los Angeles''.

   extension of applicability of downpayment simplification provisions

    Sec. 225. Subparagraph (A) of section 203(b)(10) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b)(10)(A)) is amended, in the matter that 
precedes clause (i), by striking ``mortgage'' and all that follows 
through ``involving'' and inserting ``mortgage closed on or before 
December 31, 2002, involving''.

     use of supportive housing program funds for information systems

    Sec. 226. Section 423 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act is amended under subsection (a) by adding the following paragraph:
            ``(7) Management information system.--A grant for the costs 
        of implementing and operating management information systems for 
        purposes of collecting unduplicated counts of homeless people 
        and analyzing patterns of use of assistance funded under this 
        Act.''.

                  indian housing loan guarantee reform

    Sec. 227. Section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1992 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``or as a result of a 
        lack of access to private financial markets''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``refinance,'' after 
        ``acquire,''.

                 use of section 8 vouchers for opt-outs

    Sec. 228. Section 8(t)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
is amended by inserting after ``contract for rental assistance under 
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for such housing 
project'' the following: ``(including any such termination or expiration 
during fiscal years after fiscal year 1996 prior to the effective date 
of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001)''.

                 homeless discharge coordination policy

    Sec. 229. (a) Discharge Coordination Policy.--Subtitle A of title IV 
of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-31]]

``SEC. 402. DISCHARGE COORDINATION POLICY.

    ``The Secretary may not provide a grant under this title for any 
governmental entity serving as an applicant unless the applicant agrees 
to develop and implement, to the maximum extent practicable and where 
appropriate, policies and protocols for the discharge of persons from 
publicly funded institutions or systems of care (such as health care 
facilities, foster care or other youth facilities, or correction 
programs and institutions) in order to prevent such discharge from 
immediately resulting in homelessness for such persons.''.
    (b) Assistance Under Emergency Shelter Grants Program.--Section 
414(a)(4) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting a 
        comma after ``homelessness''; and
            (2) by striking ``Not'' and inserting the following: 
        ``Activities that are eligible for assistance under this 
        paragraph shall include assistance to very low-income families 
        who are discharged from publicly funded institutions or systems 
        of care (such as health care facilities, foster care or other 
        youth facilities, or correction programs and institutions). 
        Not''.

             technical change to seniors housing commission

    Sec. 230. Section 525 of the Preserving Affordable Housing for 
Senior Citizens and Families into the 21st Century Act (42 U.S.C. 12701 
note) is amended in subsection (a) by striking ``Commission on 
Affordable Housing and Health Care Facility Needs in the 21st Century'' 
and inserting ``Commission on Affordable Housing and Health Facility 
Needs for Seniors in the 21st Century''.

               interagency council on the homeless reforms

    Sec. 231. Title II of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act is amended--
            (1) in section 202, under subsection (b) by inserting after 
        the period the following: ``The positions of Chairperson and 
        Vice Chairperson shall rotate among its members on an annual 
        basis.''; and
            (2) in section 209 by striking ``1994'' and inserting 
        ``2005''.

                 section 8 pha project-based assistance

    Sec. 232. (a) In General.--Paragraph (13) of section 8(o) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(13) PHA project-based assistance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A public housing agency may use 
                amounts provided under an annual contributions contract 
                under this subsection to enter into a housing assistance 
                payment contract with respect to an existing, newly 
                constructed, or rehabilitated structure, that is 
                attached to the structure, subject to the limitations 
                and requirements of this paragraph.
                    ``(B) Percentage limitation.--Not more than 20 
                percent of the funding available for tenant-based 
                assistance under this section that is administered by 
                the agency may be attached to structures pursuant to 
                this paragraph.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-32]]

                    ``(C) Consistency with pha plan and other goals.--A 
                public housing agency may approve a housing assistance 
                payment contract pursuant to this paragraph only if the 
                contract is consistent with--
                          ``(i) the public housing agency plan for the 
                      agency approved under section 5A; and
                          ``(ii) the goal of deconcentrating poverty and 
                      expanding housing and economic opportunities.
                    ``(D) Income mixing requirement.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Not more than 25 percent of 
                      the dwelling units in any building may be assisted 
                      under a housing assistance payment contract for 
                      project-based assistance pursuant to this 
                      paragraph.
                          ``(ii) Exceptions.--The limitation under 
                      clause (i) shall not apply in the case of 
                      assistance under a contract for housing consisting 
                      of single family properties or for dwelling units 
                      that are specifically made available for 
                      households comprised of elderly families, disabled 
                      families, and families receiving supportive 
                      services.
                    ``(E) Resident choice requirement.--A housing 
                assistance payment contract pursuant to this paragraph 
                shall provide as follows:
                          ``(i) Mobility.--Each low-income family 
                      occupying a dwelling unit assisted under the 
                      contract may move from the housing at any time 
                      after the family has occupied the dwelling unit 
                      for 12 months.
                          ``(ii) Continued assistance.--Upon such a 
                      move, the public housing agency shall provide the 
                      low-income family with tenant-based rental 
                      assistance under this section or such other 
                      tenant-based rental assistance that is subject to 
                      comparable income, assistance, rent contribution, 
                      affordability, and other requirements, as the 
                      Secretary shall provide by regulation. If such 
                      rental assistance is not immediately available to 
                      fulfill the requirement under the preceding 
                      sentence with respect to a low-income family, such 
                      requirement may be met by providing the family 
                      priority to receive the next voucher or other 
                      tenant-based rental assistance amounts that become 
                      available under the program used to fulfill such 
                      requirement.
                    ``(F) Contract term.--A housing assistance payment 
                contract pursuant to this paragraph between a public 
                housing agency and the owner of a structure may have a 
                term of up to 10 years, subject to the availability of 
                sufficient appropriated funds for the purpose of 
                renewing expiring contracts for assistance payments, as 
                provided in appropriations Acts and in the agency's 
                annual contributions contract with the Secretary, and to 
                annual compliance with the inspection requirements under 
                paragraph (8), except that the agency shall not be 
                required to make annual inspections of each assisted 
                unit in the development. The contract may specify 
                additional conditions for its continuation. If the units 
                covered by the contract are owned by the agency, the 
                term of the contract shall be agreed upon by the agency 
                and the unit of general local government

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-33]]

                or other entity approved by the Secretary in the manner 
                provided under paragraph (11).
                    ``(G) Extension of contract term.--A public housing 
                agency may enter into a contract with the owner of a 
                structure assisted under a housing assistance payment 
                contract pursuant to this paragraph to extend the term 
                of the underlying housing assistance payment contract 
                for such period as the agency determines to be 
                appropriate to achieve long-term affordability of the 
                housing or to expand housing opportunities. Such a 
                contract shall provide that the extension of such term 
                shall be contingent upon the future availability of 
                appropriated funds for the purpose of renewing expiring 
                contracts for assistance payments, as provided in 
                appropriations Acts, and may obligate the owner to have 
                such extensions of the underlying housing assistance 
                payment contract accepted by the owner and the 
                successors in interest of the owner.
                    ``(H) Rent calculation.--A housing assistance 
                payment contract pursuant to this paragraph shall 
                establish rents for each unit assisted in an amount that 
                does not exceed 110 percent of the applicable fair 
                market rental (or any exception payment standard 
                approved by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1)(D)), 
                except that if a contract covers a dwelling unit that 
                has been allocated low-income housing tax credits 
                pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986 (26 U.S.C. 42) and is not located in a qualified 
                census tract (as such term is defined in subsection (d) 
                of such section 42), the rent for such unit may be 
                established at any level that does not exceed the rent 
                charged for comparable units in the building that also 
                receive the low-income housing tax credit but do not 
                have additional rental assistance. The rents established 
                by housing assistance payment contracts pursuant to this 
                paragraph may vary from the payment standards 
                established by the public housing agency pursuant to 
                paragraph (1)(B), but shall be subject to paragraph 
                (10)(A).
                    ``(I) Rent adjustments.--A housing assistance 
                payments contract pursuant to this paragraph shall 
                provide for rent adjustments, except that--
                          ``(i) the adjusted rent for any unit assisted 
                      shall be reasonable in comparison with rents 
                      charged for comparable dwelling units in the 
                      private, unassisted, local market and may not 
                      exceed the maximum rent permitted under 
                      subparagraph (H); and
                          ``(ii) the provisions of subsection (c)(2)(C) 
                      shall not apply.
                    ``(J) Tenant selection.--A public housing agency 
                shall select families to receive project-based 
                assistance pursuant to this paragraph from its waiting 
                list for assistance under this subsection. Eligibility 
                for such project-based assistance shall be subject to 
                the provisions of section 16(b) that apply to tenant-
                based assistance. The agency may establish preferences 
                or criteria for selection for a unit assisted under this 
                paragraph that are consistent with the public housing 
                agency plan for the agency approved under section 5A. 
                Any family that rejects an offer of project-based 
                assistance under this paragraph or that is rejected for 
                admission

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-34]]

                to a structure by the owner or manager of a structure 
                assisted under this paragraph shall retain its place on 
                the waiting list as if the offer had not been made. The 
                owner or manager of a structure assisted under this 
                paragraph shall not admit any family to a dwelling unit 
                assisted under a contract pursuant to this paragraph 
                other than a family referred by the public housing 
                agency from its waiting list. Subject to its waiting 
                list policies and selection preferences, a public 
                housing agency may place on its waiting list a family 
                referred by the owner or manager of a structure and may 
                maintain a separate waiting list for assistance under 
                this paragraph, but only if all families on the agency's 
                waiting list for assistance under this subsection are 
                permitted to place their names on the separate list.
                    ``(K) Vacated units.--Notwithstanding paragraph (9), 
                a housing assistance payment contract pursuant to this 
                paragraph may provide as follows:
                          ``(i) Payment for vacant units.--That the 
                      public housing agency may, in its discretion, 
                      continue to provide assistance under the contract, 
                      for a reasonable period not exceeding 60 days, for 
                      a dwelling unit that becomes vacant, but only: (I) 
                      if the vacancy was not the fault of the owner of 
                      the dwelling unit; and (II) the agency and the 
                      owner take every reasonable action to minimize the 
                      likelihood and extent of any such vacancy. Rental 
                      assistance may not be provided for a vacant unit 
                      after the expiration of such period.
                          ``(ii) Reduction of contract.--That, if 
                      despite reasonable efforts of the agency and the 
                      owner to fill a vacant unit, no eligible family 
                      has agreed to rent the unit within 120 days after 
                      the owner has notified the agency of the vacancy, 
                      the agency may reduce its housing assistance 
                      payments contract with the owner by the amount 
                      equivalent to the remaining months of subsidy 
                      attributable to the vacant unit. Amounts 
                      deobligated pursuant to such a contract provision 
                      shall be available to the agency to provide 
                      assistance under this subsection.
                Eligible applicants for assistance under this subsection 
                may enforce provisions authorized by this 
                subparagraph.''.

    (b) Applicability.--In the case of any dwelling unit that, upon the 
date of the enactment of this Act, is assisted under a housing 
assistance payment contract under section 8(o)(13) of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) as in effect before such 
enactment, such assistance may be extended or renewed notwithstanding 
the requirements under subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) of such section 
8(o)(13), as amended by subsection (a).

   disposition of hud-held and hud-owned multifamily projects for the 
                           elderly or disabled

    Sec. 233. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in managing 
and disposing of any multifamily property that is owned or held by the 
Secretary and is occupied primarily by elderly or disabled families, the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall maintain any rental 
assistance payments under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 that are attached to

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-35]]

any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines that such a multifamily property owned or held by the 
Secretary is not feasible for continued rental assistance payments under 
such section 8, the Secretary may, in consultation with the tenants of 
that property, contract for project-based rental assistance payments 
with an owner or owners of other existing housing properties or provide 
other rental assistance.

                       family unification program

    Sec. 234. Section 8(x)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C 1437f(x)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``any family (A) who is otherwise eligible 
        for such assistance, and (B)'' and inserting ``(A) any family 
        (i) who is otherwise eligible for such assistance, and (ii)''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``and (B) for a period not to exceed 18 months, otherwise 
        eligible youths who have attained at least 18 years of age and 
        not more than 21 years of age and who have left foster care at 
        age 16 or older''.

  permanent extension of fha multifamily mortgage credit demonstrations

    Sec. 235. Section 542 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1707 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``demonstrate 
                the effectiveness of providing'' and inserting 
                ``provide''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking 
                ``demonstration'' and inserting ``the'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``determine the 
                effectiveness of'' and inserting ``provide''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (5), and inserting the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Insurance authority.--Using any authority provided in 
        appropriation Acts to insure mortgages under the National 
        Housing Act, the Secretary may enter into commitments under this 
        subsection for risk-sharing units.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``test the 
                effectiveness of'' and inserting ``provide''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Insurance authority.--Using any authority provided in 
        appropriation Acts to insure mortgages under the National 
        Housing Act, the Secretary may enter into commitments under this 
        subsection for risk-sharing units.'';
            (4) by striking subsection (d);
            (5) by striking ``pilot'' and ``Pilot'' each place such 
        terms appear; and
            (6) in the section heading, by striking ``demonstrations'' 
        and inserting ``programs''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-36]]

                     TITLE III--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries, 
$28,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum rate 
payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $7,500,000, 
$5,000,000 of which to remain available until September 30, 2001 and 
$2,500,000 of which to remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board shall 
have not more than three career Senior Executive Service positions: 
Provided further, That there shall be an Inspector General at the Board 
who shall have the duties, responsibilities, and authorities specified 
in the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended: Provided further, That 
an individual appointed to the position of Inspector General of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall, by virtue of such 
appointment, also hold the position of Inspector General of the Board: 
Provided further, That the Inspector General of the Board shall utilize 
personnel of the Office of Inspector General of FEMA in performing the 
duties of the Inspector General of the Board, and shall not appoint any 
individuals to positions within the Board.

                       Department of the Treasury

              Community Development Financial Institutions

              community development financial institutions

                          fund program account

    To carry out the Community Development Banking and Financial 
Institutions Act of 1994, including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for ES-3, $118,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, of which $5,000,000 shall be for technical 
assistance and training programs designed to benefit Native American 
Communities, and up to $8,750,000 may be used for administrative 
expenses, up to $19,750,000 may be used for the cost of direct loans, 
and up to $1,000,000 may be used for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-37]]

administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program: Provided, 
That the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $53,000,000.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $52,500,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                 national and community service programs

                           operating expenses

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in the matter under this heading as the 
``Corporation'') in carrying out programs, activities, and initiatives 
under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (referred to in the 
matter under this heading as the ``Act'') (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.), 
$458,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, 
That not more than $31,000,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12671(a)(4)) with not less than $2,000,000 targeted for the acquisition 
of a cost accounting system for the Corporation's financial management 
system, an integrated grants management system that provides 
comprehensive financial management information for all Corporation 
grants and cooperative agreements, and the establishment, operation and 
maintenance of a central archives serving as the repository for all 
grant, cooperative agreement, and related documents, without regard to 
the provisions of section 501(a)(4)(B) of the Act: Provided further, 
That not more than $2,500 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not more than 
$70,000,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation, shall 
be transferred to the National Service Trust account for educational 
awards authorized under subtitle D of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12601 et seq.), of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available for 
national service scholarships for high school students performing 
community service: Provided further, That not more than $231,000,000 of 
the amount provided under this heading shall be available for grants 
under the National Service Trust program authorized under subtitle C of 
title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.) (relating to activities 
including the AmeriCorps program), of which not more than $45,000,000 
may be used to administer, reimburse, or support any national service 
program authorized

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-38]]

under section 121(d)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12581(d)(2)); and not 
more than $25,000,000 may be made available to activities dedicated to 
developing computer and information technology skills for students and 
teachers in low-income communities: Provided further, That not more than 
$10,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available for the Points of Light Foundation for activities authorized 
under title III of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12661 et seq.): Provided further, 
That no funds shall be available for national service programs run by 
Federal agencies authorized under section 121(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
12571(b)): Provided further, That to the maximum extent feasible, funds 
appropriated under subtitle C of title I of the Act shall be provided in 
a manner that is consistent with the recommendations of peer review 
panels in order to ensure that priority is given to programs that 
demonstrate quality, innovation, replicability, and sustainability: 
Provided further, That not more than $21,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for the Civilian 
Community Corps authorized under subtitle E of title I of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12611 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $43,000,000 
shall be available for school-based and community-based service-learning 
programs authorized under subtitle B of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12521 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $28,500,000 shall 
be available for quality and innovation activities authorized under 
subtitle H of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12853 et seq.): Provided 
further, That not more than $5,000,000 shall be available for audits and 
other evaluations authorized under section 179 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12639): Provided further, That to the maximum extent practicable, the 
Corporation shall increase significantly the level of matching funds and 
in-kind contributions provided by the private sector, shall expand 
significantly the number of educational awards provided under subtitle D 
of title I, and shall reduce the total Federal costs per participant in 
all programs: Provided further, That of amounts available in the 
National Service Trust account from previous appropriations Acts, 
$30,000,000 shall be rescinded: Provided further, That not more than 
$7,500,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available to America's Promise--The Alliance for Youth, Inc. only to 
support efforts to mobilize individuals, groups, and organizations to 
build and strengthen the character and competence of the Nation's youth: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be made available to the Communities 
In Schools, Inc. to support dropout prevention activities: Provided 
further, That not more than $2,500,000 of the funds made available under 
this heading shall be made available to the Parents as Teachers National 
Center, Inc. to support childhood parent education and family support 
activities: Provided further, That not more than $2,500,000 of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be made available to the Boys 
and Girls Clubs of America to establish an innovative outreach program 
designed to meet the special needs of youth in public and Native 
American housing communities: Provided further, That not more than 
$1,500,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available to the Youth Life Foundation to meet the needs of children 
living in insecure environments.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-39]]

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $5,000,000, 
which shall be available for obligation through September 30, 2002.

                        administrative provision

    The Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public 
Law 106-74) is amended under the heading ``Corporation for National and 
Community Service, National and Community Service Programs Operating 
Expenses'' in title III by reducing to $229,000,000 the amount available 
for grants under the National Service Trust program authorized under 
subtitle C of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(the ``Act'') (with a corresponding reduction to $40,000,000 in the 
amount that may be used to administer, reimburse, or support any 
national service program authorized under section 121(d)(2) of the Act), 
and by increasing to $33,500,000 the amount available for quality and 
innovation activities authorized under subtitle H of title I of the Act, 
with the increase in subtitle H funds made available to provide a grant 
covering a period of 3 years to support the ``P.A.V.E. the Way'' project 
described in House Report 106-379.

                  Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7251-7298, 
$12,445,000, of which $895,000 shall be available for the purpose of 
providing financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the 
process and reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public 
Law 102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase of two 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $17,949,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 Department of Health and Human Services

                      National Institutes of Health

           national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-40]]

311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980, as amended, $63,000,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i), 111(c)(4), and 111(c)(14) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
(CERCLA), as amended; section 118(f ) of the Superfund Amendments and 
Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended; and section 3019 of the 
Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, $75,000,000, to be derived from 
the Hazardous Substance Superfund Trust Fund pursuant to section 517(a) 
of SARA (26 U.S.C. 9507): Provided, That not withstanding any other 
provision of law, in lieu of performing a health assessment under 
section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR may conduct 
other appropriate health studies, evaluations, or activities, including, 
without limitation, biomedical testing, clinical evaluations, medical 
monitoring, and referral to accredited health care providers: Provided 
further, That in performing any such health assessment or health study, 
evaluation, or activity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not be bound 
by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to 
issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) 
of CERCLA during fiscal year 2001, and existing profiles may be updated 
as necessary.

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                         science and technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980, as amended; necessary expenses for personnel and 
related costs and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances 
therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per 
diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior level 
positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; other operating expenses in support of research and 
development; construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$696,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 2002.

                  environmental programs and management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-41]]

senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of 
reprints; library memberships in societies or associations which issue 
publications to members only or at a price to members lower than to 
subscribers who are not members; construction, alteration, repair, 
rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per 
project; and not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $2,087,990,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
by this Act shall be used to propose or issue rules, regulations, 
decrees, or orders for the purpose of implementation, or in preparation 
for implementation, of the Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 
11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan at the Third Conference of the Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has not 
been submitted to the Senate for advice and consent to ratification 
pursuant to article II, section 2, clause 2, of the United States 
Constitution, and which has not entered into force pursuant to article 
25 of the Protocol: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to implement or administer the interim 
guidance issued on February 5, 1998, by the Environmental Protection 
Agency relating to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and 
designated as the ``Interim Guidance for Investigating Title VI 
Administrative Complaints Challenging Permits'' with respect to 
complaints filed under such title after October 21, 1998, and until 
guidance is finalized. Nothing in this proviso may be construed to 
restrict the Environmental Protection Agency from developing or issuing 
final guidance relating to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1412(b)(12)(A)(v) of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, the Administrator shall promulgate 
a national primary drinking water regulation for arsenic not later than 
June 22, 2001.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$34,094,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                        buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $23,931,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                      hazardous substance superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; 
$1,270,000,000 (of which $100,000,000 shall not become

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-42]]

available until September 1, 2001), to remain available until expended, 
consisting of $635,000,000, as authorized by section 517(a) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), as amended 
by Public Law 101-508, and $635,000,000 as a payment from general 
revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund for purposes as authorized 
by section 517(b) of SARA, as amended: Provided, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be allocated to other Federal agencies in 
accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, $11,500,000 shall be transferred 
to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to remain available 
until September 30, 2002, and $36,500,000 shall be transferred to the 
``Science and technology'' appropriation to remain available until 
September 30, 2002.

                leaking underground storage tank program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund Amendments 
and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, alteration, 
repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed 
$75,000 per project, $72,096,000, to remain available until expended.

                           oil spill response

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$15,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,628,740,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $1,350,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended; $825,000,000 shall be for 
capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under 
section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, except that, 
notwithstanding section 1452(n) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as 
amended, none of the funds made available under this heading in this 
Act, or in previous appropriations Acts, shall be reserved by the 
Administrator for health effects studies on drinking water contaminants; 
$75,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, planning, design, 
construction and related activities in connection with the construction 
of high priority water and wastewater facilities in the area of the 
United States-Mexico Border, after consultation with the appropriate 
border commission; $35,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of 
Alaska to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs of 
rural and Alaska Native Villages; $335,740,000 shall be for making 
grants for the construction of wastewater and water treatment facilities 
and groundwater protection infrastructure in accordance with the terms 
and conditions specified for such grants in the conference report and 
joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying 
this

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-43]]

Act, except that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
funds herein and hereafter appropriated under this heading for such 
special needs infrastructure grants, the Administrator may use up to 3 
percent of the amount of each project appropriated to administer the 
management and oversight of construction of such projects through 
contracts, allocation to the Corps of Engineers, or grants to States; 
and $1,008,000,000 shall be for grants, including associated program 
support costs, to States, federally recognized tribes, interstate 
agencies, tribal consortia, and air pollution control agencies for 
multi-media or single media pollution prevention, control and abatement 
and related activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions 
set forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making 
grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate matter 
monitoring and data collection activities: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended, the limitation on the amounts in a State water 
pollution control revolving fund that may be used by a State to 
administer the fund shall not apply to amounts included as principal in 
loans made by such fund in fiscal year 2001 and prior years where such 
amounts represent costs of administering the fund to the extent that 
such amounts are or were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, 
accounted for separately from other assets in the fund, and used for 
eligible purposes of the fund, including administration: Provided 
further, That for fiscal year 2001, and notwithstanding section 518(f ) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, the 
Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated for any 
fiscal year under section 319 of that Act to make grants to Indian 
tribes pursuant to section 319(h) and 518(e) of that Act: Provided 
further, That for fiscal year 2001, notwithstanding the limitation on 
amounts in section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as 
amended, up to a total of 1\1/2\ percent of the funds appropriated for 
State Revolving Funds under title VI of that Act may be reserved by the 
Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of such Act: Provided 
further, That no funds provided by this legislation to address the 
water, wastewater and other critical infrastructure needs of the 
colonias in the United States along the United States-Mexico border 
shall be made available after June 1, 2001 to a county or municipal 
government unless that government has established an enforceable local 
ordinance, or other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
development or construction of any additional colonia areas, or the 
development within an existing colonia the construction of any new home, 
business, or other structure which lacks water, wastewater, or other 
necessary infrastructure: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, all claims for principal and interest registered 
through any current grant dispute or any other such dispute hereafter 
filed by the Environmental Protection Agency relative to construction 
grants numbers C-180840-01, C-180840-04, C-470319-03, and C-470319-04, 
are hereby resolved in favor of the grantee: Provided further, That EPA, 
in considering the local match for the $5,000,000 appropriated in fiscal 
year 1999 for the City of Cumberland, Maryland, to separate and relocate 
the city's combined sewer and stormwater system, shall take into account 
non-Federal money spent by the City of Cumberland for combined sewer, 
stormwater and wastewater treatment infrastructure on or after October 
1, 1999, and that the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-44]]

fiscal year 1999 and any subsequent funds may be used for any required 
non-Federal share of the costs of projects funded by the Federal 
Government under section 580 of Public Law 106-53.

                        administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2001 and thereafter, the obligated balances of sums 
available in multiple-year appropriations accounts shall remain 
available through the seventh fiscal year after their period of 
availability has expired for liquidating obligations made during the 
period of availability.
    For fiscal year 2001, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 6305(1), 
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in carrying 
out the Agency's function to implement directly Federal environmental 
programs required or authorized by law in the absence of an acceptable 
tribal program, may award cooperative agreements to federally-recognized 
Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if authorized by their member 
Tribes, to assist the Administrator in implementing Federal 
environmental programs for Indian Tribes required or authorized by law, 
except that no such cooperative agreements may be awarded from funds 
designated for State financial assistance agreements.
    Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act, as amended, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Notwithstanding paragraph 5, this subsection shall not 
        apply with respect to an area designated nonattainment under 
        section 107(d)(1) until 1 year after that area is first 
        designated nonattainment for a specific national ambient air 
        quality standard. This paragraph only applies with respect to 
        the national ambient air quality standard for which an area is 
        newly designated nonattainment and does not affect the area's 
        requirements with respect to all other national ambient air 
        quality standards for which the area is designated nonattainment 
        or has been redesignated from nonattainment to attainment with a 
        maintenance plan pursuant to section 175(A) (including any pre-
        existing national ambient air quality standard for a pollutant 
        for which a new or revised standard has been issued).''.

                    Executive Office of the President

                 office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official reception 
and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia, $5,201,000.

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the Council 
on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality pursuant to 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-45]]

the Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization 
Plan No. 1 of 1977, $2,900,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, no funds other than those appropriated under 
this heading shall be used for or by the Council on Environmental 
Quality and Office of Environmental Quality: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1970, the Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as 
chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the 
Council.

                  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                       office of inspector general

                           (transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $33,660,000, to be derived from the Bank Insurance Fund, the 
Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$300,000,000, and, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 5203, to remain available 
until expended, of which not to exceed $2,900,000 may be transferred to 
``Emergency management planning and assistance'' for the consolidated 
emergency management performance grant program; and up to $15,000,000 
may be obligated for flood map modernization activities following 
disaster declarations: Provided, That of the funds made available under 
this heading in this and prior appropriations Acts and under section 404 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
to the State of Florida, $3,000,000 shall be for a hurricane mitigation 
initiative in Miami-Dade County.
    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief'', $1,300,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

             disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,678,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-46]]

such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $427,000.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; expenses of attendance 
of cooperating officials and individuals at meetings concerned with the 
work of emergency preparedness; transportation in connection with the 
continuity of Government programs to the same extent and in the same 
manner as permitted the Secretary of a Military Department under 10 
U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $215,000,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $10,000,000: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector 
General of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall also serve as 
the Inspector General of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation 
Board.

              emergency management planning and assistance

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 
1978, $269,652,000: Provided, That for purposes of pre-disaster 
mitigation pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5131(b) and (c) and 42 U.S.C. 5196(e) 
and (i), $25,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be available until expended for project grants.

                radiological emergency preparedness fund

    The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2001, as 
authorized by Public Law 106-74, shall not be less than 100 percent of 
the amounts anticipated by FEMA necessary for its radiological emergency 
preparedness program for the next fiscal year. The methodology for 
assessment and collection of fees shall be fair and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-47]]

equitable; and shall reflect costs of providing such services, including 
administrative costs of collecting such fees. Fees received pursuant to 
this section shall be deposited in the Fund as offsetting collections 
and will become available for authorized purposes on October 1, 2001, 
and remain available until expended.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    To carry out an emergency food and shelter program pursuant to title 
III of Public Law 100-77, as amended, $140,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That total administrative costs shall not 
exceed 3\1/2\ percent of the total appropriation.

                      national flood insurance fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended, not to exceed 
$25,736,000 for salaries and expenses associated with flood mitigation 
and flood insurance operations, and not to exceed $77,307,000 for flood 
mitigation, including up to $20,000,000 for expenses under section 1366 
of the National Flood Insurance Act, which amount shall be available for 
transfer to the National Flood Mitigation Fund until September 30, 2002. 
In fiscal year 2001, no funds in excess of: (1) $55,000,000 for 
operating expenses; (2) $455,627,000 for agents' commissions and taxes; 
and (3) $40,000,000 for interest on Treasury borrowings shall be 
available from the National Flood Insurance Fund without prior notice to 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    In addition, up to $17,730,000 in fees collected but unexpended 
during fiscal years 1994 through 1998 shall be transferred to the Flood 
Map Modernization Fund and available for expenditure in fiscal year 
2001.
    Section 1309(a)(2) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 4016(a)(2)), as amended by Public Law 104-208, is further amended 
by striking ``September 30, 2000'' and inserting ``December 31, 2001''.
    The first sentence of section 1376(c) of the National Flood 
Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4127(c)), is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2000'' and inserting ``December 31, 2001''.

                     national flood mitigation fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Notwithstanding sections 1366(b)(3)(B)-(C) and 1366(f ) of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, $20,000,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2002, for activities designed to reduce 
the risk of flood damage to structures pursuant to such Act, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the National Flood Insurance Fund.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-48]]

                     General Services Administration

                federal consumer information center fund

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Consumer Information Center, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,122,000, to be 
deposited into the Federal Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, 
That the appropriations, revenues, and collections deposited into the 
Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of Federal Consumer 
Information Center activities in the aggregate amount of $12,000,000. 
Appropriations, revenues, and collections accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 2001 in excess of $12,000,000 shall remain in the Fund and 
shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized in 
appropriations Acts.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of human space flight research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, and services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including revitalization and modification of 
facilities, construction of new facilities and additions to existing 
facilities, facility planning and design, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $5,462,900,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

                   science, aeronautics and technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics and technology research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, and 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities including 
revitalization, and modification of facilities, construction of new 
facilities and additions to existing facilities, facility planning and 
design, and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized 
by law; space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities 
including operations, production, and services; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft, $6,190,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                             mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for human space flight programs and science, 
aeronautical, and technology programs, including research operations and 
support; maintenance; construction of facilities including 
revitalization and modification of facilities, construction of new 
facilities and additions to existing facilities, facility planning and 
design, environmental compliance and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-49]]

allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $40,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 33 
for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$2,608,700,000 to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,000,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities as authorized by law, such amount available 
for such activity shall remain available until expended. This provision 
does not apply to the amounts appropriated in ``Mission support'' 
pursuant to the authorization for minor revitalization and construction 
of facilities, and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 2003.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'' and ``Office of Inspector 
General'', amounts made available by this Act for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall remain available until September 30, 2001 and may 
be used to enter into contracts for training, investigations, costs 
associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to be 
provided during the next fiscal year. Funds for announced prizes 
otherwise authorized shall remain available, without fiscal year 
limitation, until the prize is claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
    Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the joint 
explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying this 
Act, no part of the funds appropriated for ``Human space flight'' may be 
used for the development of the International Space Station in excess of 
the amounts set forth in the budget estimates submitted as part of the 
budget request for fiscal year 2001.
    No funds in this or any other appropriations Act may be used to 
finalize an agreement prior to December 1, 2001 between NASA and a 
nongovernment organization to conduct research utilization and 
commercialization management activities of the International Space 
Station.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-50]]

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

                      (including transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 2001, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions, as authorized by 12 U.S.C. 1795 et seq., shall not exceed 
$1,500,000,000: Provided, That administrative expenses of the Central 
Liquidity Facility shall not exceed $296,303: Provided further, That 
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the Community Development Revolving 
Loan Fund, of which $650,000, together with amounts of principal and 
interest on loans repaid, shall be available until expended for loans to 
community development credit unions, and $350,000 shall be available 
until expended for technical assistance to low-income and community 
development credit unions.

                       National Science Foundation

                     research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and the Act to 
establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; authorized travel; maintenance and 
operation of aircraft and purchase of flight services for research 
support; acquisition of aircraft; $3,350,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$275,592,000 shall remain available until expended for Polar research 
and operations support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies 
for operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program; the balance to 
remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That receipts for 
scientific support services and materials furnished by the National 
Research Centers and other National Science Foundation supported 
research facilities may be credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That to the extent that the amount appropriated is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the 
authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That $65,000,000 of 
the funds available under this heading shall be made available for a 
comprehensive research initiative on plant genomes for economically 
significant crops: Provided further, That no funds in this or any other 
Act shall be used to acquire or lease a research vessel with ice-
breaking capability built or retrofitted by a shipyard located in a 
foreign country if such a vessel of United States origin can be obtained 
at a cost no more than 50 per centum above that of the least expensive 
technically acceptable foreign vessel bid: Provided further, That, in 
determining the cost of such a vessel, such cost be increased by the 
amount of any subsidies or financing provided by a foreign government 
(or instrumentality thereof ) to such vessel's construction: Provided 
further, That if the vessel contracted for pursuant to the foregoing is 
not available for the 2002-2003 austral summer Antarctic season, a 
vessel of any origin may be leased for a period of not to exceed 120 
days

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-51]]

for that season and each season thereafter until delivery of the new 
vessel.

                        major research equipment

    For necessary expenses of major construction projects pursuant to 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, including 
authorized travel, $121,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                      education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, authorized 
travel, and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$787,352,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, 
That to the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the 
authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That $10,000,000 
shall be available for the Office of Innovation Partnerships.

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; reimbursement of 
the General Services Administration for security guard services; 
$160,890,000: Provided, That contracts may be entered into under 
``Salaries and expenses'' in fiscal year 2001 for maintenance and 
operation of facilities, and for other services, to be provided during 
the next fiscal year.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $6,280,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $90,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a homeownership program that is used in 
conjunction with section 8 assistance under the United States Housing 
Act of 1937: Provided, That of the amount made available, $2,500,000 
shall be for an endowment to establish the George Knight Scholarship 
Fund for the Neighborhood Reinvestment Training Institute.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-52]]

                        Selective Service System

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $24,480,000: Provided, 
That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt this 
appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he deems 
such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into the 
Armed Forces of the United States.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this Act 
are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has been 
placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not exceed 
the amounts set forth therefore in the budget estimates submitted for 
the appropriations: Provided, That this provision does not apply to 
accounts that do not contain an object classification for travel: 
Provided further, That this section shall not apply to travel performed 
by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal boards of the 
Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in connection 
with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with major disasters 
or emergencies declared or determined by the President under the 
provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of Inspector General 
in connection with audits and investigations; or to payments to 
interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the budget 
schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, II, and 
III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially submitted 
for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may correspondingly 
exceed the amounts therefore set forth in the estimates in the same 
proportion.
    Sec. 402. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 403. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a contract 
or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for services and 
facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National 
Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal 
Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any member thereof, Federal 
Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within the meaning of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-53]]

    Sec. 404. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 405. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
            (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee of 
        the United States unless--
                    (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is part 
                of, a voucher or abstract which describes the payee or 
                payees and the items or services for which such 
                expenditure is being made; or
                    (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
                certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, 
                is specifically authorized by law; and
            (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the 
        General Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from 
        such audit.

    Sec. 406. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between their domicile and their 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under 31 U.S.C. 1344 or 5 U.S.C. 7905.
    Sec. 407. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share in 
the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest of 
the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 408. None of the funds in this Act may be used, directly or 
through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for payment of the 
salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal Government or a 
grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate paid for level IV 
of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically authorized by law.
    Sec. 409. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
pay the expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties 
intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein 
affects the authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant 
to section 7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 410. Except as otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
an existing Executive order issued pursuant to an existing law, the 
obligation or expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
contracts for any consulting service shall be limited to contracts which 
are: (1) a matter of public record and available for public inspection; 
and (2) thereafter included in a publicly available list of all 
contracts entered into within 24 months prior to the date on which the 
list is made available to the public and of all contracts on which 
performance has not been completed by such date. The list required by 
the preceding sentence shall be updated quarterly and shall include a 
narrative description of the work to be performed under each such 
contract.
    Sec. 411. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.), for

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-54]]

a contract for services unless such executive agency: (1) has awarded 
and entered into such contract in full compliance with such Act and the 
regulations promulgated thereunder; and (2) requires any report prepared 
pursuant to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, 
analyses and manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is 
substantially derived from or substantially includes any report prepared 
pursuant to such contract, to contain information concerning: (A) the 
contract pursuant to which the report was prepared; and (B) the 
contractor who prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 412. Except as otherwise provided in section 406, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 413. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles per 
gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 414. None of the funds appropriated in title I of this Act 
shall be used to enter into any new lease of real property if the 
estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the Secretary 
submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Congress and a period of 30 days has expired following the date on which 
the report is received by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 415. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 416. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    Sec. 417. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2001 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 418. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 419. Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Act as may be necessary in 
carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 2001 for such 
corporation or agency except

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-55]]

as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of these 
corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage purchase 
commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this Act 
(unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance provided 
for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this proviso 
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty operations of 
these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases are necessary 
to protect the financial interest of the United States Government.
    Sec. 420. Notwithstanding section 320(g) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1330(g)), funds made available pursuant 
to authorization under such section for fiscal year 2001 may be used for 
implementing comprehensive conservation and management plans.
    Sec. 421. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term 
``qualified student loan'' with respect to national service education 
awards shall mean any loan made directly to a student by the Alaska 
Commission on Postsecondary Education, in addition to other meanings 
under section 148(b)(7) of the National and Community Service Act.
    Sec. 422. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, no part of any 
appropriation for the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall 
be available for any activity in excess of amounts set forth in the 
budget estimates submitted to the Congress.
    Sec. 423. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to promulgate a final regulation to implement 
changes in the payment of pesticide tolerance processing fees as 
proposed at 64 Fed. Reg. 31040, or any similar proposals. The 
Environmental Protection Agency may proceed with the development of such 
a rule.
    Sec. 424. Except in the case of entities that are funded solely with 
Federal funds or any natural persons that are funded under this Act, 
none of the funds in this Act shall be used for the planning or 
execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise 
compensate, non-Federal parties to lobby or litigate in respect to 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act. A chief executive officer 
of any entity receiving funds under this Act shall certify that none of 
these funds have been used to engage in the lobbying of the Federal 
Government or in litigation against the United States unless authorized 
under existing law.
    Sec. 425. No part of any funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for normal and 
recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or 
propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of any 
kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 426. None of the funds provided in title II for technical 
assistance, training, or management improvements may be obligated or 
expended unless HUD provides to the Committees on Appropriations a 
description of each proposed activity and a detailed budget estimate of 
the costs associated with each activity as part of the Budget 
Justifications. For fiscal year 2001, HUD shall transmit this 
information to the committees by December 1, 2000, for 30 days of 
review.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-56]]

    Sec. 427. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the designation, or approval of the designation, of any area as an 
ozone nonattainment area under the Clean Air Act pursuant to the 8-hour 
national ambient air quality standard for ozone that was promulgated by 
the Environmental Protection Agency on July 18, 1997 (62 Fed. Reg. 
38,356, p. 38855) and remanded by the District of Columbia Court of 
Appeals on May 14, 1999, in the case, American Trucking Ass'ns. v. EPA 
(No. 97-1440, 1999 Westlaw 300618) prior to June 15, 2001 or final 
adjudication of this case by the Supreme Court of the United States, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 428. Section 432 of Public Law 104-204 (110 Stat. 2874) is 
amended--
            (a) in subsection (c) by inserting ``or to restructure and 
        improve the efficiency of the workforce'' after ``the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration'' and before ``the 
        Administrator'';
            (b) by striking paragraph (4) of subsection (h) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(4) The provisions of subsections (1) and (3) of 
                this section may be waived upon a determination by the 
                Administrator that use of the incentive satisfactorily 
                demonstrates downsizing or other restructuring within 
                the Agency that would improve the efficiency of agency 
                operations or contribute directly to evolving mission 
                requirements.''
            (c) by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following:

    ``(i) Reports.--The Administrator shall submit a report on NASA's 
restructuring activities to the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate not 
later than September 30, 2001. This report shall include--
            ``(1) an outline of a timetable for restructuring the 
        workforce at NASA Headquarters and field Centers;
            ``(2) annual Full Time Equivalent (FTE) targets by broad 
        occupational categories and a summary of how these targets 
        reflect the respective missions of Headquarters and the field 
        Centers;
            ``(3) a description of personnel initiatives, such as 
        relocation assistance, early retirement incentives, and career 
        transition assistance, which NASA will use to achieve personnel 
        reductions or to rebalance the workforce; and
            ``(4) a description of efficiencies in operations achieved 
        through the use of the voluntary separation incentive.''; and

    (d) in subsection ( j), by striking ``September 30, 2000'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2002''.
    Sec. 429. Section 70113(f ) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2000'', and inserting ``December 31, 
2001''.
    Sec. 430. All Departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public service 
activities.
    Sec. 431. Title III of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 
1958, Public Law 85-568, is amended by adding the following new section 
at the end:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-57]]

    ``Sec. 312. (a) Appropriations for the Administration for fiscal 
year 2002 and thereafter shall be made in three accounts, `Human space 
flight', `Science, aeronautics and technology', and an account for 
amounts appropriated for the necessary expenses of the Office of 
Inspector General. Appropriations shall remain available for 2 fiscal 
years. Each account shall include the planned full costs of the 
Administration's related activities.
    ``(b) To ensure the safe, timely, and successful accomplishment of 
Administration missions, the Administration may transfer amounts for 
Federal salaries and benefits; training, travel and awards; facility and 
related costs; information technology services; publishing services; 
science, engineering, fabricating and testing services; and other 
administrative services among accounts, as necessary.
    ``(c) The Administrator, in consultation with the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, shall determine what balances from the 
`Mission support' account are to be transferred to the `Human space 
flight' and `Science, aeronautics and technology' accounts. Such 
balances shall be transferred and merged with the `Human space flight' 
and `Science, aeronautics and technology' accounts, and remain available 
for the period of which originally appropriated.''.

            TITLE V--FILIPINO VETERANS' BENEFITS IMPROVEMENTS

    Sec. 501. (a) Rate of Compensation Payments for Filipino Veterans 
Residing in the United States.--(1) Section 107 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (A) by striking ``Payments'' in the second sentence of 
        subsection (a) and inserting ``Except as provided in subsection 
        (c), payments''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) In the case of benefits under subchapters II and IV of chapter 
11 of this title paid by reason of service described in subsection (a) 
to an individual residing in the United States who is a citizen of, or 
an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in, the United 
States, the second sentence of subsection (a) shall not apply.''.
    (2) The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to benefits paid for 
months beginning on or after that date.
    (b) Eligibility for Health Care of Disabled Filipino Veterans 
Residing in the United States.--Section 1734 of such title is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The Secretary,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) An individual who is in receipt of benefits under subchapter 
II or IV of chapter 11 of this title paid by reason of service described 
in section 107(a) of this title who is residing in the United States and 
who is a citizen of, or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence in, the United States shall be eligible for hospital and 
nursing home care and medical services in the same manner as a veteran, 
and the disease or disability for which such benefits are paid shall be 
considered to be a service-connected disability for purposes of this 
chapter.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-58]]

    (c) Health Care for Veterans Residing in the Philippines.--Section 
1724 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Within the limits of an outpatient clinic in the Republic of 
the Philippines that is under the direct jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
the Secretary may furnish a veteran who has a service-connected 
disability with such medical services as the Secretary determines to be 
needed.''.

                        TITLE VI--DEBT REDUCTION

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount for fiscal year 2001 into the 
account established under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States 
Code, to reduce the public debt, $5,172,730,916.14.
    Titles I-IV of this Act may be cited as the ``Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1441A-59]]



                          APPENDIX B--H.R. 5483

That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for energy and water development 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and 
related purposes.

                         General Investigations

    For expenses necessary for the collection and study of basic 
information pertaining to river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects, restudy of authorized projects, 
miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by laws, surveys and 
detailed studies and plans and specifications of projects prior to 
construction, $160,038,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That in conducting the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction 
Study, Albuquerque, New Mexico, the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, shall include an evaluation of flood 
damage reduction measures that would otherwise be excluded from the 
feasibility analysis based on policies regarding the frequency of 
flooding, the drainage areas, and the amount of runoff: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army is directed to use $750,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein to continue preconstruction engineering 
and design for the Murrieta Creek, California flood protection and 
environmental restoration project in accordance with Alternative 6, 
based on the Murrieta Creek feasibility report and environmental impact 
statement dated June 2000 at a total cost of $90,866,000, with an 
estimated Federal cost of $59,063,900 and an estimated non-Federal cost 
of $31,803,100.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-60]]

                          Construction, General

    For the prosecution of river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects authorized by laws; and detailed 
studies, and plans and specifications, of projects (including those for 
development with participation or under consideration for participation 
by States, local governments, or private groups) authorized or made 
eligible for selection by law (but such studies shall not constitute a 
commitment of the Government to construction), $1,717,199,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary for the 
Federal share of construction costs for facilities under the Dredged 
Material Disposal Facilities program shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, as authorized by Public Law 104-303; and of 
which such sums as are necessary pursuant to Public Law 99-662 shall be 
derived from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, for one-half of the costs 
of construction and rehabilitation of inland waterways projects, 
including rehabilitation costs for the Lock and Dam 12, Mississippi 
River, Iowa; Lock and Dam 24, Mississippi River, Illinois and Missouri; 
Lock and Dam 3, Mississippi River, Minnesota; and London Locks and Dam, 
and Kanawha River, West Virginia, projects; and of which funds are 
provided for the following projects in the amounts specified:
            Elba, Alabama, $8,400,000;
            Geneva, Alabama, $10,800,000;
            San Gabriel Basin Groundwater Restoration, California, 
        $25,000,000;
            San Timoteo Creek (Santa Ana River Mainstem), California, 
        $5,000,000;
            Indianapolis Central Waterfront, Indiana, $10,000,000;
            Southern and Eastern Kentucky, Kentucky, $4,000,000;
            Clover Fork, Middlesboro, City of Cumberland, Town of 
        Martin, Pike County (including Levisa Fork and Tug Fork 
        Tributaries), Bell County, Martin County, and Harlan County, 
        Kentucky, elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy 
        River and Upper Cumberland River, Kentucky, $20,000,000: 
        Provided, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
        Chief of Engineers, is directed to proceed with planning, 
        engineering, design and construction of the Town of Martin, 
        Kentucky, element, in accordance with Plan A as set forth in the 
        preliminary draft Detailed Project Report, Appendix T of the 
        General Plan of the Huntington District Commander;
            Jackson County, Mississippi, $2,000,000;
            Bosque and Leon Rivers, Texas, $4,000,000; and
            Upper Mingo County (including Mingo County Tributaries), 
        Lower Mingo County (Kermit), Wayne County, and McDowell County, 
        elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy River and 
        Upper Cumberland River project in West Virginia, $4,100,000:

Provided further, That using $900,000 of the funds appropriated herein, 
the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to undertake the Bowie County Levee project, which is defined 
as Alternative B Local Sponsor Option, in the Corps of Engineers 
document entitled Bowie County Local Flood Protection, Red River, Texas, 
Project Design Memorandum No. 1, Bowie County Levee, dated April 1997: 
Provided further, That

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-61]]

no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be expended or 
obligated to begin Phase II of the John Day Drawdown study or to 
initiate a study of the drawdown of McNary Dam unless authorized by law: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed hereafter to use available Construction, 
General funds in addition to funding provided in Public Law 104-206 to 
complete design and construction of the Red River Regional Visitors 
Center in the vicinity of Shreveport, Louisiana at an estimated cost of 
$6,000,000: Provided further, That section 101(b)(4) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1996, is amended by striking ``total cost 
of $8,600,000'' and inserting ``total cost of $15,000,000'': Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $3,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
herein for additional emergency bank stabilization measures at Galena, 
Alaska under the same terms and conditions as previous emergency bank 
stabilization work undertaken at Galena, Alaska pursuant to section 116 
of Public Law 99-190: Provided further, That with $4,200,000 of the 
funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue construction of the 
Brunswick County Beaches, North Carolina-Ocean Isle Beach portion in 
accordance with the General Reevaluation Report approved by the Chief of 
Engineers on May 15, 1998: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use not to 
exceed $300,000 of funds appropriated herein to reimburse the City of 
Renton, Washington, at full Federal expense, for mitigation expenses 
incurred for the flood control project constructed pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 
701s at Cedar River, City of Renton, Washington, as a result of over-
dredging by the Army Corps of Engineers: Provided further, That 
$2,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein shall be available for 
stabilization and renovation of Lock and Dam 10, Kentucky River, 
Kentucky, subject to enactment of authorization by law: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use $3,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
herein to initiate construction of a navigation project at Kaumalapau 
Harbor, Hawaii: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army is 
directed to use $2,000,000 of the funds provided herein for Dam Safety 
and Seepage/Stability Correction Program to design and construct seepage 
control features at Waterbury Dam, Winooski River, Vermont: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to design and construct barge lanes at the 
Houston-Galveston Navigation Channels, Texas, project, immediately 
adjacent to either side of the Houston Ship Channel, from Bolivar Roads 
to Morgan Point, to a depth of 12 feet with prior years' Construction, 
General carry-over funds: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, may use Construction, 
General funding as directed in Public Law 105-62 and Public Law 105-245 
to initiate construction of an emergency outlet from Devils Lake, North 
Dakota, to the Sheyenne River, except that the funds shall not become 
available unless the Secretary of the Army determines that an emergency 
(as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)) exists with respect to the 
emergency need for the outlet and reports to Congress that the 
construction is technically sound, economically justified, and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-62]]

environmentally acceptable, and in compliance with the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided 
further, That the economic justification for the emergency outlet shall 
be prepared in accordance with the principles and guidelines for 
economic evaluation as required by regulations and procedures of the 
Army Corps of Engineers for all flood control projects, and that the 
economic justification be fully described, including the analysis of the 
benefits and costs, in the project plan documents: Provided further, 
That the plans for the emergency outlet shall be reviewed and, to be 
effective, shall contain assurances provided by the Secretary of State, 
after consultation with the International Joint Commission, that the 
project will not violate the requirements or intent of the Treaty 
Between the United States and Great Britain Relating to Boundary Waters 
Between the United States and Canada, signed at Washington, January 11, 
1909 (36 Stat. 2448; TS 548) (commonly known as the ``Boundary Waters 
Treaty of 1909''): Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army 
shall submit the final plans and other documents for the emergency 
outlet to Congress: Provided further, That no funds made available under 
this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used by the 
Secretary of the Army to carry out the portion of the feasibility study 
of the Devils Lake Basin, North Dakota, authorized under the Energy and 
Water Development Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-377), that 
addresses the needs of the area for stabilized lake levels through inlet 
controls, or to otherwise study any facility or carry out any activity 
that would permit the transfer of water from the Missouri River Basin 
into Devils Lake: Provided further, That within available funds, the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to continue construction of the Rio Grand de Manati flood 
control project at Barceloneta, Puerto Rico, which was initiated under 
the authority of the Section 205 program prior to being specifically 
authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 1999.

 flood control, mississippi river and tributaries, arkansas, illinois, 
        kentucky, louisiana, mississippi, missouri, and tennessee

    For expenses necessary for prosecuting work of flood control, and 
rescue work, repair, restoration, or maintenance of flood control 
projects threatened or destroyed by flood, as authorized by law (33 
U.S.C. 702a and 702g-1), $347,731,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army is directed to 
complete his analysis and determination of Federal maintenance of the 
Greenville Inner Harbor, Mississippi navigation project in accordance 
with section 509 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996.

                   Operation and Maintenance, General

    For expenses necessary for the preservation, operation, maintenance, 
and care of existing river and harbor, flood control, and related works, 
including such sums as may be necessary for the maintenance of harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality or other public agency, 
outside of harbor lines, and serving essential needs of general commerce 
and navigation; surveys and charting of northern and northwestern lakes 
and connecting waters; clearing

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-63]]

and straightening channels; and removal of obstructions to navigation, 
$1,901,959,000, to remain available until expended, of which such sums 
as become available in the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to 
Public Law 99-662, may be derived from that Fund, and of which such sums 
as become available from the special account established by the Land and 
Water Conservation Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l), may be 
derived from that account for construction, operation, and maintenance 
of outdoor recreation facilities: Provided, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, from the funds provided 
herein for the operation and maintenance of New York Harbor, New York, 
is directed to prepare the necessary documentation and initiate removal 
of submerged obstructions and debris in the area previously marked by 
the Ambrose Light Tower in the interest of safe navigation: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army is directed to use $500,000 of 
funds appropriated herein to remove and reinstall the docks and 
causeway, in kind, at Astoria East Boat Basin, Oregon: Provided further, 
That $500,000 of the funds appropriated herein for the Ohio River Open 
Channel, Illinois, Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, and 
Pennsylvania, project, are provided for the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, to dredge a channel from the 
mouth of Wheeling Creek to Tunnel Green Park in Wheeling, West Virginia.

                           Regulatory Program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $125,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use funds 
appropriated herein to: (1) by March 1, 2001, supplement the report, 
Cost Analysis For the 1999 Proposal to Issue and Modify Nationwide 
Permits, to reflect the Nationwide Permits actually issued on March 9, 
2000, including changes in the acreage limits, preconstruction 
notification requirements and general conditions between the rule 
proposed on July 21, 1999, and the rule promulgated and published in the 
Federal Register; (2) after consideration of the cost analysis for the 
1999 proposal to issue and modify nationwide permits and the supplement 
prepared pursuant to this Act and by September 30, 2001, prepare, submit 
to Congress and publish in the Federal Register a Permit Processing 
Management Plan by which the Corps of Engineers will handle the 
additional work associated with all projected increases in the number of 
individual permit applications and preconstruction notifications related 
to the new and replacement permits and general conditions. The Permit 
Processing Management Plan shall include specific objective goals and 
criteria by which the Corps of Engineers' progress towards reducing any 
permit backlog can be measured; (3) beginning on December 31, 2001, and 
on a biannual basis thereafter, report to Congress and publish in the 
Federal Register, an analysis of the performance of its program as 
measured against the criteria set out in the Permit Processing 
Management Plan; (4) implement a 1-year pilot program to publish 
quarterly on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer's Regulatory Program 
website all Regulatory Analysis and Management Systems (RAMS) data for 
the South Pacific Division and North Atlantic Division beginning within 
30 days of the enactment of this Act; and (5) publish in

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-64]]

Division Office websites all findings, rulings, and decisions rendered 
under the administrative appeals process for the Corps of Engineers 
Regulatory Program as established in Public Law 106-60: Provided 
further, That, through the period ending on September 30, 2003, the 
Corps of Engineers shall allow any appellant to keep a verbatim record 
of the proceedings of the appeals conference under the aforementioned 
administrative appeals process: Provided further, That within 30 days of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, shall require all U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
Divisions and Districts to record the date on which a section 404 
individual permit application or nationwide permit notification is filed 
with the Corps of Engineers: Provided further, That the Corps of 
Engineers, when reporting permit processing times, shall track both the 
date a permit application is first received and the date the application 
is considered complete, as well as the reason that the application is 
not considered complete upon first submission.

             Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites 
throughout the United States resulting from work performed as part of 
the Nation's early atomic energy program, $140,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                            General Expenses

    For expenses necessary for general administration and related 
functions in the Office of the Chief of Engineers and offices of the 
Division Engineers; activities of the Coastal Engineering Research 
Board, the Humphreys Engineer Center Support Activity, the Water 
Resources Support Center, and headquarters support functions at the 
USACE Finance Center, $152,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation provided in title I of 
this Act shall be available to fund the activities of the Office of the 
Chief of Engineers or the executive direction and management activities 
of the division offices: Provided further, That none of these funds 
shall be available to support an office of congressional affairs within 
the executive office of the Chief of Engineers.

                             Revolving Fund

    Amounts in the Revolving Fund are available for the costs of 
relocating the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers headquarters to office space 
in the General Accounting Office headquarters building in Washington, 
D.C.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Appropriations in this title shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $5,000); and during 
the current fiscal year the Revolving Fund, Corps of Engineers, shall be 
available for purchase (not to exceed 100 for replacement only) and hire 
of passenger motor vehicles.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-65]]

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    Sec. 101. (a) The Secretary of the Army shall enter into an 
agreement with the City of Grand Prairie, Texas, wherein the City agrees 
to assume all of the responsibilities of the Trinity River Authority of 
Texas under Contract No. DACW63-76-C-0166, other than financial 
responsibilities, except as provided for in subsection (c) of this 
section. The Trinity River Authority shall be relieved of all of its 
financial responsibilities under the Contract as of the date the 
Secretary of the Army enters into the agreement with the City.
    (b) In consideration of the agreement referred to in subsection (a), 
the City shall pay the Federal Government a total of $4,290,000 in two 
installments, one in the amount of $2,150,000, which shall be due and 
payable no later than December 1, 2000, and one in the amount of 
$2,140,000, which shall be due and payable no later than December 1, 
2003.
    (c) The agreement executed pursuant to subsection (a) shall include 
a provision requiring the City to assume all costs associated with 
operation and maintenance of the recreation facilities included in the 
Contract referred to in that subsection.
    Sec. 102. Agreements proposed for execution by the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works or the United States Army Corps of 
Engineers after the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to 
section 4 of the Rivers and Harbor Act of 1915, Public Law 64-291; 
section 11 of the River and Harbor Act of 1925, Public Law 68-585; the 
Civil Functions Appropriations Act, 1936, Public Law 75-208; section 215 
of the Flood Control Act of 1968, as amended, Public Law 90-483; 
sections 104, 203, and 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1986, as amended (Public Law 99-662); section 206 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1992, as amended, Public Law 102-580; section 211 of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1996, Public Law 104-303, and any 
other specific project authority, shall be limited to credits and 
reimbursements per project not to exceed $10,000,000 in each fiscal 
year, and total credits and reimbursements for all applicable projects 
not to exceed $50,000,000 in each fiscal year.
    Sec. 103. The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is authorized to construct the locally preferred plan for 
flood control, environmental restoration and recreation, Murrieta Creek, 
California, described as Alternative 6, based on the Murrieta Creek 
Feasibility Report and Environmental Impact Statement dated October 
2000, at a total cost of $89,850,000 with an estimated Federal cost of 
$57,735,000 and an estimated non-Federal cost of $32,115,000.
    Sec. 104. St. Georges Bridge, Delaware. None of the funds made 
available by this Act may be used to carry out any activity relating to 
closure or removal of the St. Georges Bridge across the Chesapeake and 
Delaware Canal, Delaware, including a hearing or any other activity 
relating to preparation of an environmental impact statement concerning 
the closure or removal.
    Sec. 105. Within available funds under title I, the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, shall provide up to 
$7,000,000 to replace and upgrade the dam in Kake, Alaska

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-66]]

which collapsed July 2000, to provide drinking water and 
hydroelectricity.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $38,724,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $19,158,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account: Provided, That of the amounts 
deposited into that account, $5,000,000 shall be considered the Federal 
contribution authorized by paragraph 402(b)(2) of the Central Utah 
Project Completion Act and $14,158,000 shall be available to the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission to carry out 
activities authorized under that Act.
    In addition, for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out related 
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior, $1,216,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute authorized 
functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                       water and related resources

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, Indian tribes, and others, 
$678,450,000, to remain available until expended, of which $1,916,000 
shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund 
and $39,467,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado 
River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be necessary 
may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund; of which $16,000,000 
shall be for on-reservation water development, feasibility studies, and 
related administrative costs under Public Law 106-163; of which not more 
than 25 percent of the amount provided for drought emergency assistance 
may be used for financial assistance for the preparation of cooperative 
drought contingency plans under title II of Public Law 102-250; and of 
which not more than $500,000 is for high priority projects which shall 
be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 1706: Provided, That such transfers may be increased or decreased 
within the overall appropriation under this heading: Provided further, 
That of the total appropriated, the amount for program activities that 
can be financed by the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation 
special fee account established by 16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i) shall be derived 
from that Fund

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-67]]

or account: Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 
are available until expended for the purposes for which contributed: 
Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 397a shall be 
credited to this account and are available until expended for the same 
purposes as the sums appropriated under this heading: Provided further, 
That funds available for expenditure for the Departmental Irrigation 
Drainage Program may be expended by the Bureau of Reclamation for site 
remediation on a non-reimbursable basis: Provided further, That section 
301 of Public Law 102-250, Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief 
Act of 1991, as amended, is amended further by inserting ``2000, and 
2001'' in lieu of ``and 2000'': Provided further, That the amount 
authorized for Indian municipal, rural, and industrial water features by 
section 10 of Public Law 89-108, as amended by section 8 of Public Law 
99-294, section 1701(b) of Public Law 102-575, Public Law 105-245, and 
Public Law 106-60 is increased by $2,000,000 (October 1998 prices): 
Provided further, That the amount authorized for Minidoka Project North 
Side Pumping Division, Idaho, by section 5 of Public Law 81-864, is 
increased by $2,805,000: Provided further, That the Reclamation Safety 
of Dams Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 509) is amended as follows: (1) by 
inserting in section 4(c) after ``1984,'' and before ``costs'' the 
following: ``and the additional $95,000,000 further authorized to be 
appropriated by amendments to that Act in 2000,''; (2) by inserting in 
section 5 after ``levels),'' and before ``plus'' the following: ``and, 
effective October 1, 2000, not to exceed an additional $95,000,000 
(October 1, 2000, price levels),''; and (3) by striking ``sixty days 
(which'' and all that follows through ``day certain)'' and inserting in 
lieu thereof ``30 calendar days''.

               bureau of reclamation loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans and/or grants, $8,944,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by the Small Reclamation 
Projects Act of August 6, 1956, as amended (43 U.S.C. 422a-422l): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $27,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
program for direct loans and/or grants, $425,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the total sums appropriated, the 
amount of program activities that can be financed by the Reclamation 
Fund shall be derived from that Fund.

                 central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, and habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, $38,382,000, to be derived from such 
sums as may be collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), 3405(f ), and 3406(c)(1) of 
Public Law 102-575, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Bureau of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full 
amount of the additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized 
by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-68]]

                        policy and administration

    For necessary expenses of policy, administration, and related 
functions in the office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until expended, $50,224,000, to be derived from the 
Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377: 
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed four passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to purchase or lease water in the Middle Rio Grande or the 
Carlsbad Projects in New Mexico unless said purchase or lease is in 
compliance with the purchase requirements of section 202 of Public Law 
106-60.
    Sec. 202. Funds under this title for Drought Emergency Assistance 
shall be made available primarily for leasing of water for specified 
drought related purposes from willing lessors, in compliance with 
existing State laws and administered under State water priority 
allocation. Such leases may be entered into with an option to purchase: 
Provided, That such purchase is approved by the State in which the 
purchase takes place and the purchase does not cause economic harm 
within the State in which the purchase is made.
    Sec. 203. Beginning in fiscal year 2001 and thereafter, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall assess and collect annually from Central 
Valley Project (CVP) water and power contractors the sum of $540,000 
(June 2000 price levels) and remit, without further appropriation, the 
amount collected annually to the Trinity Public Utilities District 
(TPUD). This assessment shall be payable 70 percent by CVP Preference 
Power Customers and 30 percent by CVP Water Contractors. The CVP Water 
Contractor share of this assessment shall be collected by the Secretary 
through established Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) Operation and 
Maintenance ratesetting practices. The CVP Power Contractor share of 
this assessment shall be assessed by Reclamation to the Western Area 
Power Administration, Sierra Nevada Region (Western), and collected by 
Western through established power ratesetting practices.
    Sec. 204. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior shall continue funding, from 
power revenues, the activities of the Glen Canyon Dam Adaptive 
Management Program as authorized by section 1807 of the Grand Canyon 
Protection Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4672), at not more than $7,850,000 
(October 2000 price level), adjusted in subsequent years to reflect 
changes in the Consumer Price Index

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-69]]

for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of 
the Department of Labor.
    (b) Voluntary Contributions.--Nothing in this section precludes the 
use of voluntary financial contributions (except power revenues) to the 
Adaptive Management Program that may be authorized by law.
    (c) Activities To Be Funded.--The activities to be funded as 
provided under subsection (a) include activities required to meet the 
requirements of section 1802(a) and subsections (a) and (b) of section 
1805 of the Grand Canyon Protection Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 4672), 
including the requirements of the Biological Opinion on the Operation of 
Glen Canyon Dam and activities required by the Programmatic Agreement on 
Cultural and Historic Properties, to the extent that the requirements 
and activities are consistent with the Grand Canyon Protection Act of 
1992 (106 Stat. 4672).
    (d) Additional Funding.--To the extent that funding under subsection 
(a) is insufficient to pay the costs of the monitoring and research and 
other activities of the Glen Canyon Dam Adaptive Management Program, the 
Secretary of the Interior may use funding from other sources, including 
funds appropriated for that purpose. All such appropriated funds shall 
be nonreimbursable and nonreturnable.
    Sec. 205. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed 
to use not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated under title II 
to refund amounts received by the United States as payments for charges 
assessed by the Secretary prior to January 1, 1994 for failure to file 
certain certification or reporting forms prior to the receipt of 
irrigation water, pursuant to sections 206 and 224(c) of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 1226, 1272; 43 U.S.C. 390ff, 390ww(c)), 
including the amount of associated interest assessed by the Secretary 
and paid to the United States pursuant to section 224(i) of the 
Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (101 Stat. 1330-268; 43 U.S.C. 390ww(i)).
    Sec. 206. Canyon Ferry Reservoir, Montana. (a) Appraisals.--Section 
1004(c)(2)(B) of title X of division C of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (112 Stat. 2681-713; 113 
Stat. 1501A-307) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``be based on'' and inserting 
        ``use'';
            (2) in clause (vi), by striking ``Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law,'' and inserting ``To the extent consistent 
        with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisition,''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(vii) Applicability.--This subparagraph shall apply to the 
        extent that its application is practicable and consistent with 
        the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition.''.

    (b) Timing.--Section 1004(f )(2) of title X of division C of the 
Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(112 Stat. 2681-714; 113 Stat. 1501A-308) is amended by inserting after 
``Act,'' the following: ``in accordance with all applicable law,''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-70]]

    (c) Interest.--Section 1008(b) of title X of division C of the 
Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 
(112 Stat. 2681-717; 113 Stat. 1501A-310) is amended by striking 
paragraph (4).
    Sec. 207. Beginning in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, any amounts 
provided for the Newlands Water Rights Fund for purchasing and retiring 
water rights in the Newlands Reclamation Project shall be non-
reimbursable.
    Sec. 208. Use of Colorado-Big Thompson Project Facilities for 
Nonproject Water. The Secretary of the Interior may enter into contracts 
with the city of Loveland, Colorado, or its Water and Power Department 
or any other agency, public utility, or enterprise of the city, 
providing for the use of facilities of the Colorado-Big Thompson 
Project, Colorado, under the Act of February 21, 1911 (43 U.S.C. 523), 
for--
            (1) the impounding, storage, and carriage of nonproject 
        water originating on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains 
        for domestic, municipal, industrial, and other beneficial 
        purposes; and
            (2) the exchange of water originating on the eastern slope 
        of the Rocky Mountains for the purposes specified in paragraph 
        (1), using facilities associated with the Colorado-Big Thompson 
        Project, Colorado.

    Sec. 209. Amendment to Irrigation Project Contract Extension Act of 
1998. (a) Section 2(a) of the Irrigation Project Contract Extension Act 
of 1998, Public Law 105-293, is amended by striking the date ``December 
31, 2000'', and inserting in lieu thereof the date ``December 31, 
2003''; and
    (b) Subsection 2(b) of the Irrigation Project Contract Extension Act 
of 1998, Public Law 105-293, is amended by--
            (1) striking the phrase ``not to go beyond December 31, 
        2001'', and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase ``not to go 
        beyond December 31, 2003''; and
            (2) striking the phrase ``terminates prior to December 31, 
        2000'', and inserting in lieu thereof ``terminates prior to 
        December 31, 2003''.

    Sec. 210. Section 202 of division B, title I, chapter 2 of Public 
Law 106-246 is amended by adding at the end the following: ``This 
section shall be effective through September 30, 2001.''.
    Sec. 211. (a) Section 106 of the San Luis Rey Indian Water Rights 
Settlement Act (Public Law 100-675; 102 Stat. 4000 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f ) Requirement To Furnish Water, Power Capacity, and Energy.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in order to fulfill the 
trust responsibility to the Bands, the Secretary, acting through the 
Commissioner of Reclamation, shall permanently furnish annually the 
following:
            ``(1) Water.--16,000 acre-feet of the water conserved by the 
        works authorized by title II, for the benefit of the Bands and 
        the local entities in accordance with the settlement agreement: 
        Provided, That during construction of said works, the Indian 
        Water Authority and the local entites shall receive 17 percent 
        of any water conserved by said works up to a maximum of 16,000 
        acre-feet per year. The Indian Water Authority and the local 
        entities shall pay their proportionate share of such costs as 
        are provided by section 203(b) of title II or are agreed to by 
        them.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-71]]

            ``(2) Power capacity and energy.--Beginning on the date when 
        conserved water from the works authorized by title II first 
        becomes available, power capacity and energy through the Yuma 
        Arizona Area Aggregate Power Managers (Yuma Area Contractors), 
        at no cost and at no further expense to the United States, the 
        Indian Water Authority, the Bands, and the local entities, in 
        amounts sufficient to convey the water conserved pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) from Lake Havasu through the Colorado River 
        Aqueduct and to the places of use on the Bands' reservations or 
        in the local entities' service areas in accordance with the 
        settlement agreement. The Secretary, through a coterminous 
        exhibit to Bureau of Reclamation Contract No. 6-CU-30-P1136, 
        shall enter into an agreement with the Yuma Area Contractors 
        which shall provide for furnishing annually and permanently said 
        power capacity and energy by said Yuma Area Contractors at no 
        cost and at no further expense to the United States, the Indian 
        Water Authority, the Bands, and the local entities. The 
        Secretary shall authorize the Yuma Area Contractors to utilize 
        Federal project use power provided for in Bureau of Reclamation 
        Contracts numbered 6-CU-30-P1136, 6-CU-30-P1137, and 6-CU-30-
        P1138 for the full range of purposes served by the Yuma Area 
        Contractors, including the purpose of supplying the power 
        capacity and energy to convey the conserved water referred to in 
        paragraph (1), for so long as the Yuma Area Contractors meet 
        their obligation to provide sufficient power capacity and energy 
        for the conveyance of said conserved water. If for any reason 
        the Yuma Area Contractors do not provide said power capacity and 
        energy for the conveyance of said conserved water, then the 
        Secretary shall furnish said power capacity and energy annually 
        and permanently at the lowest rate assigned to project use power 
        within the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Reclamation in 
        accordance with Exhibit E `Project Use Power' of the Agreement 
        between Water and Power Resources Service, Department of the 
        Interior, and Western Area Power Administration, Department of 
        Energy (March 26, 1980).''.

    (b) Title II of the San Luis Rey Indian Water Rights Settlement Act 
(Public Law 100-675; 102 Stat. 4000 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section:

``SEC. 210. ANNUAL REPAYMENT INSTALLMENTS.

    ``During the period of planning, design, and construction of the 
works and during the period that the Indian Water Authority and the 
local entities receive up to 16,000 acre-feet of the water conserved by 
the works, the annual repayment installments provided in section 102(b) 
of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act (Public Law 93-320; 88 
Stat. 268) shall continue to be nonreimbursable. Nothing in this section 
shall affect the national obligation set forth in section 101(c) of such 
Act.''.
    Sec. 212. (a) Definitions.--For the purpose of this section, the 
term--
            (1) ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior;
            (2) ``Sly Park Unit'' means the Sly Park Dam and Reservoir, 
        Camp Creek Diversion Dam and Tunnel, and conduits and canals as 
        authorized under the American River Act of October 14, 1949 (63 
        Stat. 853), including those used to convey, treat,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-72]]

        and store water delivered from Sly Park, as well as all 
        recreation facilities thereto; and
            (3) ``District'' means the El Dorado Irrigation District.

    (b) In General.--The Secretary shall, as soon as practicable after 
date of the enactment of this Act and in accordance with all applicable 
law, transfer all right, title, and interest in and to the Sly Park Unit 
to the District.
    (c) Sale Price.--The Secretary is authorized to receive from the 
District $2,000,000 to relieve payment obligations and extinguish the 
debt under contract number 14-06-200-949IR3, and $9,500,000 to relieve 
payment obligations and extinguish all debts associated with contracts 
numbered 14-06-200-7734, as amended by contracts numbered 14-06-200-
4282A and 14-06-200-8536A. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the 
District shall continue to make payments required by section 3407(c) of 
Public Law 102-575 through year 2029.
    (d) Credit Revenue to Project Repayment.--Upon payment authorized 
under subsection (b), the amount paid shall be credited toward repayment 
of capital costs of the Central Valley Project in an amount equal to the 
associated undiscounted obligation.
    (e) Future Benefits.--Upon payment, the Sly Park Unit shall no 
longer be a Federal reclamation project or a unit of the Central Valley 
Project, and the District shall not be entitled to receive any further 
reclamation benefits.
    (f ) Liability.--Except as otherwise provided by law, effective on 
the date of conveyance of the Sly Park Unit under this Act, the United 
States shall not be liable for damages of any kind arising out of any 
act, omission, or occurrence based on its prior ownership or operation 
of the conveyed property.
    (g) Costs.--All costs, including interest charges, associated with 
the Project that have been included as a reimbursable cost of the 
Central Valley Project are declared to be nonreimbursable and 
nonreturnable.

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                              Energy Supply

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy supply, and uranium supply and enrichment 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; and the purchase of 
not to exceed 17 passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, 
$660,574,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, That, in 
addition, royalties received to compensate the Department of Energy for 
its participation in the First-Of-A-Kind-Engineering program shall be 
credited to this account to be available until September 30, 2002, for 
the purposes of Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology activities.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-73]]

                  Non-Defense Environmental Management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental management activities 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction or expansion, $277,812,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             Uranium Facilities Maintenance and Remediation

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to maintain, decontaminate, decommission, and 
otherwise remediate uranium processing facilities, $393,367,000, of 
which $345,038,000 shall be derived from the Uranium Enrichment 
Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, all of which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $72,000,000 of amounts derived 
from the Fund for such expenses shall be available in accordance with 
title X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                 Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not to exceed 58 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $3,186,352,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $191,074,000, to remain 
available until expended and to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: 
Provided, That not to exceed $2,500,000 may be provided to the State of 
Nevada solely for expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of 
State employees, to conduct scientific oversight responsibilities 
pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as 
amended: Provided further, That $6,000,000 shall be provided to affected 
units of local governments, as defined in Public Law 97-425, to conduct 
appropriate activities pursuant to the Act: Provided further, That the 
distribution of the funds as determined by the units of local government 
shall be approved by the Department of Energy: Provided further, That 
the funds for the State of Nevada shall be made available solely to the 
Nevada Division of Emergency Management by direct payment and units of 
local government by direct payment: Provided further, That within 90 
days of the completion of each Federal fiscal year, the Nevada Division 
of Emergency Management and the Governor of the State of Nevada and each 
local entity shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-74]]

provide certification to the Department of Energy that all funds 
expended from such payments have been expended for activities authorized 
by Public Law 97-425 and this Act. Failure to provide such certification 
shall cause such entity to be prohibited from any further funding 
provided for similar activities: Provided further, That none of the 
funds herein appropriated may be: (1) used directly or indirectly to 
influence legislative action on any matter pending before Congress or a 
State legislature or for lobbying activity as provided in 18 U.S.C. 
1913; (2) used for litigation expenses; or (3) used to support multi-
State efforts or other coalition building activities inconsistent with 
the restrictions contained in this Act: Provided further, That all 
proceeds and recoveries by the Secretary in carrying out activities 
authorized by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 in Public Law 97-425, 
as amended, including but not limited to, any proceeds from the sale of 
assets, shall be available without further appropriation and shall 
remain available until expended.

                       Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official reception 
and representation expenses (not to exceed $35,000), $226,107,000, to 
remain available until expended, plus such additional amounts as 
necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost of work for 
others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 
U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): Provided, That such increases in cost of work are 
offset by revenue increases of the same or greater amount, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That moneys received by the 
Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $151,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2001 may be retained and used for operating expenses within 
this account, and may remain available until expended, as authorized by 
section 201 of Public Law 95-238, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 
U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by the amount of miscellaneous revenues received during fiscal 
year 2001 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2001 appropriation from 
the General Fund estimated at not more than $75,107,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $31,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                National Nuclear Security Administration

                           weapons activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-75]]

Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the 
acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any facility or for 
plant or facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; and the 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles (not to exceed 12 for replacement 
only), $5,015,186,000, to remain available until expended: Provided: 
That, $130,000,000 shall be immediately available for Project 96-D-111, 
the National Ignition Facility at Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory: Provided further, That $69,100,000 shall be available only 
upon a certification by the Administrator of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration to the Congress after March 31, 2001, that (a) 
includes a recommendation on an appropriate path forward for the 
project; (b) certifies all established project and scientific milestones 
have been met on schedule and on cost; (c) certifies the first and 
second quarter project reviews in fiscal year 2001 determined the 
project to be on schedule and cost; (d) includes a study of requirements 
for and alternatives to a 192 beam ignition facility for maintaining the 
safety and reliability of the current nuclear weapons stockpile; (e) 
certifies an integrated cost-schedule earned-value project control 
system has been fully implemented; and (f ) includes a 5-year budget 
plan for the stockpile stewardship program.

                    defense nuclear nonproliferation

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense, Defense Nuclear 
Nonproliferation activities, in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $874,196,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $7,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses for national security and nonproliferation 
(including transparency) activities in fiscal year 2001.

                             naval reactors

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $690,163,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                       office of the administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Administrator of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, including official reception 
and representation expenses (not to exceed $5,000), $10,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    OTHER DEFENSE RELATED ACTIVITIES

         Defense Environmental Restoration and Waste Management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-76]]

other expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental 
restoration and waste management activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; and the purchase of 30 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $4,974,476,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Defense Facilities Closure Projects

    For expenses of the Department of Energy to accelerate the closure 
of defense environmental management sites, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
necessary expenses, $1,082,714,000, to remain available until expended.

             Defense Environmental Management Privatization

    For Department of Energy expenses for privatization projects 
necessary for atomic energy defense environmental management activities 
authorized by the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
et seq.), $65,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense activities, 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction, or expansion, $585,755,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $17,000,000 shall be for the 
Department of Energy Employees Compensation Initiative upon enactment of 
authorization legislation into law.

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Power Marketing Administrations

                  bonneville power administration fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for the Nez 
Perce Tribe Resident Fish Substitution Program, the Cour D'Alene Tribe 
Trout Production facility, and for official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500.
    During fiscal year 2001, no new direct loan obligations may be made. 
Section 511 of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1997 
(Public Law 104-206), is amended by striking the last sentence and 
inserting ``This authority shall expire January 1, 2003.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-77]]

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to the 
provisions of section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 
825s), as applied to the southeastern power area, $3,900,000, to remain 
available until expended; in addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 
31 U.S.C. 3302, amounts collected by the Southeastern Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act to recover purchase 
power and wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended for the sole 
purpose of making purchase power and wheeling expenditures as follows: 
for fiscal year 2001, up to $34,463,000; for fiscal year 2002, up to 
$26,463,000; for fiscal year 2003, up to $20,000,000; and for fiscal 
year 2004, up to $15,000,000.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, and 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out the provisions of section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the southwestern 
power area, $28,100,000, to remain available until expended; in 
addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302, not to 
exceed $4,200,000 in reimbursements, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That amounts collected by the Southwestern Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act to recover purchase 
power and wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended for the sole 
purpose of making purchase power and wheeling expenditures as follows: 
for fiscal year 2001, up to $288,000; for fiscal year 2002, up to 
$288,000; for fiscal year 2003, up to $288,000; and for fiscal year 
2004, up to $288,000.

 construction, rehabilitation, operation and maintenance, western area 
                          power administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, including official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, $165,830,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $154,616,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: Provided, That of the 
amount herein appropriated, $5,950,000 is for deposit into the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account pursuant to title IV of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992: 
Provided further, That amounts collected by the Western Area Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-78]]

collections, to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of 
making purchase power and wheeling expenditures as follows: for fiscal 
year 2001, up to $65,224,000; for fiscal year 2002, up to $33,500,000; 
for fiscal year 2003, up to $30,000,000; and for fiscal year 2004, up to 
$20,000,000.

            Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $2,670,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 423 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, and official reception and 
representation expenses (not to exceed $3,000), $175,200,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $175,200,000 of revenues from fees and 
annual charges, and other services and collections in fiscal year 2001 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this account, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced as revenues 
are received during fiscal year 2001 so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2001 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at not more than 
$0.

                               RESCISSIONS

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated in Public Law 104-46 for interim storage 
of nuclear waste, $75,000,000 are transferred to this heading and are 
hereby rescinded.

             Defense Environmental Management Privatization

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated in Public Law 106-60 and prior Energy and 
Water Development Acts for the Tank Waste Remediation System at 
Richland, Washington, $97,000,000 of unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations are rescinded.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-79]]

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

    Sec. 301. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to award a management and operating contract unless such contract is 
awarded using competitive procedures or the Secretary of Energy grants, 
on a case-by-case basis, a waiver to allow for such a deviation. The 
Secretary may not delegate the authority to grant such a waiver.
    (b) At least 60 days before a contract award, amendment, or 
modification for which the Secretary intends to grant such a waiver, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Subcommittees on Energy and Water 
Development of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report notifying the subcommittees of 
the waiver and setting forth the reasons for the waiver.
    Sec. 302. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) develop or implement a workforce restructuring plan that 
        covers employees of the Department of Energy; or
            (2) provide enhanced severance payments or other benefits 
        for employees of the Department of Energy,

under section 3161 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2644; 42 U.S.C. 7274h).
    Sec. 303. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
augment the $24,500,000 made available for obligation by this Act for 
severance payments and other benefits and community assistance grants 
under section 3161 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2644; 42 U.S.C. 7274h) unless 
the Department of Energy submits a reprogramming request subject to 
approval by the appropriate Congressional committees.
    Sec. 304. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
prepare or initiate Requests For Proposals (RFPs) for a program if the 
program has not been funded by Congress.

                   (transfers of unexpended balances)

    Sec. 305. The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided 
for activities in this Act may be transferred to appropriation accounts 
for such activities established pursuant to this title. Balances so 
transferred may be merged with funds in the applicable established 
accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund for the same 
time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 306. Of the funds in this Act provided to government-owned, 
contractor-operated laboratories, not to exceed 6 percent shall be 
available to be used for Laboratory Directed Research and Development.
    Sec. 307. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this title to the 
Department of Energy, not more than $185,000,000 shall be available for 
reimbursement of management and operating contractor travel expenses, of 
which $10,000,000 is available for use by the Chief Financial Officer of 
the Department of Energy for emergency travel expenses.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-80]]

    (b) Funds appropriated by this title to the Department of Energy may 
be used to reimburse a Department of Energy management and operating 
contractor for travel costs of its employees under the contract only to 
the extent that the contractor applies to its employees the same rates 
and amounts as those that apply to Federal employees under subchapter I 
of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, or rates and amounts 
established by the Secretary of Energy. The Secretary of Energy may 
provide exceptions to the reimbursement requirements of this section as 
the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
reimbursement of management and operating contractor travel expenses 
within the Laboratory Directed Research and Development program.
    Sec. 308. No funds are provided in this Act or any other Act for the 
Administrator of the Bonneville Power Administration to enter into any 
agreement to perform energy efficiency services outside the legally 
defined Bonneville service territory, with the exception of services 
provided internationally, including services provided on a reimbursable 
basis, unless the Administrator certifies that such services are not 
available from private sector businesses.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds in this Act may be used to dispose of 
transuranic waste in the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant which contains 
concentrations of plutonium in excess of 20 percent by weight for the 
aggregate of any material category on the date of enactment of this Act, 
or is generated after such date. For the purposes of this section, the 
material categories of transuranic waste at the Rocky Flats 
Environmental Technology Site include: (1) ash residues; (2) salt 
residues; (3) wet residues; (4) direct repackage residues; and (5) scrub 
alloy as referenced in the ``Final Environmental Impact Statement on 
Management of Certain Plutonium Residues and Scrub Alloy Stored at the 
Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site''.
    Sec. 310. The Administrator of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration may authorize the plant manager of a covered nuclear 
weapons production plant to engage in research, development, and 
demonstration activities with respect to the engineering and 
manufacturing capabilities at such plant in order to maintain and 
enhance such capabilities at such plant: Provided, That of the amount 
allocated to a covered nuclear weapons production plant each fiscal year 
from amounts available to the Department of Energy for such fiscal year 
for national security programs, not more than an amount equal to 2 
percent of such amount may be used for these activities: Provided 
further, That for purposes of this section, the term ``covered nuclear 
weapons production plant'' means the following:
            (1) The Kansas City Plant, Kansas City, Missouri.
            (2) The Y-12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
            (3) The Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.
            (4) The Savannah River Plant, South Carolina.

    Sec. 311. Notwithstanding any other law, and without fiscal year 
limitation, each Federal Power Marketing Administration is authorized to 
engage in activities and solicit, undertake and review studies and 
proposals relating to the formation and operation of a regional 
transmission organization.
    Sec. 312. Not more than $10,000,000 of funds previously appropriated 
for interim waste storage activities for Defense Nuclear

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-81]]

Waste Disposal in Public Law 104-46, the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 1996, may be made available to the Department of 
Energy upon written certification by the Secretary of Energy to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that the Site 
Recommendation Report cannot be completed on time without additional 
funding.
    Sec. 313. Term of Office of Person First Appointed as Under 
Secretary for Nuclear Security of the Department of Energy. (a) Length 
of Term.--The term of office as Under Secretary for Nuclear Security of 
the Department of Energy of the first person appointed to that position 
shall be 3 years.
    (b) Exclusive Reasons for Removal.--The exclusive reasons for 
removal from office as Under Secretary for Nuclear Security of the 
person described in subsection (a) shall be inefficiency, neglect of 
duty, or malfeasance in office.
    (c) Position Described.--The position of Under Secretary for Nuclear 
Security of the Department of Energy referred to in this section is the 
position established by subsection (c) of section 202 of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7132), as added by section 3202 of 
the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (title XXXII of Public 
Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 954).
    Sec. 314. Scope of Authority of Secretary of Energy to Modify 
Organization of National Nuclear Security Administration. (a) Scope of 
Authority.--Subtitle A of the National Nuclear Security Administration 
Act (title XXXII of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 957; 50 U.S.C. 2401 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 3219. SCOPE OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF ENERGY TO MODIFY 
            ORGANIZATION OF ADMINISTRATION.

    ``Notwithstanding the authority granted by section 643 of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7253) or any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Energy may not establish, abolish, 
alter, consolidate, or discontinue any organizational unit or component, 
or transfer any function, of the Administration, except as authorized by 
subsection (b) or (c) of section 3291.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 643 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7253) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) The authority of the Secretary to establish, abolish, alter, 
consolidate, or discontinue any organizational unit or component of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration is governed by the provisions 
of section 3219 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(title XXXII of Public Law 106-65).''.
    Sec. 315. Prohibition on Pay of Personnel Engaged in Concurrent 
Service or Duties Inside and Outside National Nuclear Security 
Administration. Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (title XXXII of Public Law 106-65; 50 U.S.C. 2441 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 3245. PROHIBITION ON PAY OF PERSONNEL ENGAGED IN CONCURRENT 
            SERVICE OR DUTIES INSIDE AND OUTSIDE ADMINISTRATION.

    ``(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, no funds 
authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-82]]

Department of Energy may be obligated or utilized to pay the basic pay 
of an officer or employee of the Department of Energy who--
            ``(1) serves concurrently in a position in the 
        Administration and a position outside the Administration; or
            ``(2) performs concurrently the duties of a position in the 
        Administration and the duties of a position outside the 
        Administration.

    ``(b) The provision of this section shall take effect 60 days after 
the date of enactment of this section.''.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended, for necessary 
expenses for the Federal Co-Chairman and the alternate on the 
Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the Federal share of the 
administrative expenses of the Commission, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$66,400,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $18,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to establish the Delta Regional Authority and 
to carry out its activities, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                            Denali Commission

    For expenses of the Denali Commission including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment as necessary 
and other expenses, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, including official representation 
expenses (not to exceed $15,000), $481,900,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the amount

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-83]]

appropriated herein, $21,600,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
Fund: Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $447,958,000 
in fiscal year 2001 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That $3,200,000 of 
the funds herein appropriated for regulatory reviews and assistance to 
other Federal agencies and States shall be excluded from license fee 
revenues, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 2214: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues received 
during fiscal year 2001 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2001 
appropriation estimated at not more than $33,942,000.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $5,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other services 
and collections estimated at $5,390,000 in fiscal year 2001 shall be 
retained and be available until expended, for necessary salaries and 
expenses in this account notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount 
of revenues received during fiscal year 2001 so as to result in a final 
fiscal year 2001 appropriation estimated at not more than $110,000.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $2,900,000, to be 
derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, and to remain available until 
expended.

                                 TITLE V

                FISCAL YEAR 2001 EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                      cerro grande fire activities

    For necessary expenses to remediate damaged Department of Energy 
facilities and for other expenses associated with the Cerro Grande fire, 
$203,460,000, to remain available until expended, of which $2,000,000 
shall be made available to the United States Army Corps of Engineers to 
undertake immediate measures to provide erosion control and sediment 
protection to sewage lines, trails, and bridges in Pueblo and Los Alamos 
Canyons downstream of Diamond Drive in New Mexico: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $203,460,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-84]]

Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Appalachian Regional Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended, $11,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, which shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for $11,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                TITLE VI

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used in 
any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action on 
any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, other 
than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in section 1913 
of title 18, United States Code.
    Sec. 602. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
     (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
     (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 603. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of California 
of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-85]]

standards of the State of California as approved by the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental effect 
of the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal Reclamation 
law.
    Sec. 604. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan 
at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to the Senate 
for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article II, section 
2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which has not 
entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.
    Sec. 605. Funding of the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and 
Restoration Act. Section 4(a) of the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 
777c(a)), is amended in the second sentence by striking ``2000'' and 
inserting ``2009''.
    Sec. 606. Redesignation of Interstate Sanitation Commission and 
District. (a) Interstate Sanitation Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The district known as the ``Interstate 
        Sanitation Commission'', established by article III of the Tri-
        State Compact described in the Resolution entitled, ``A Joint 
        Resolution granting the consent of Congress to the States of New 
        York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to enter into a compact for 
        the creation of the Interstate Sanitation District and the 
        establishment of the Interstate Sanitation Commission'', 
        approved August 27, 1935 (49 Stat. 933), is redesignated as the 
        ``Interstate Environmental Commission''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, map, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Interstate Sanitation Commission shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to the Interstate Environmental Commission.

    (b) Interstate Sanitation District.--
            (1) In general.--The district known as the ``Interstate 
        Sanitation District'', established by article II of the Tri-
        State Compact described in the Resolution entitled, ``A Joint 
        Resolution granting the consent of Congress to the States of New 
        York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to enter into a compact for 
        the creation of the Interstate Sanitation District and the 
        establishment of the Interstate Sanitation Commission'', 
        approved August 27, 1935 (49 Stat. 932), is redesignated as the 
        ``Interstate Environmental District''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, map, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1441A-86]]

        Interstate Sanitation District shall be deemed to be a reference 
        to the Interstate Environmental District.

                                TITLE VII

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount for fiscal year 2001 into the 
account established under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States 
Code, to reduce the public debt, $5,000,000,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                      NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

    Section 6101 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 2214) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``September 30, 1999'' 
        and inserting ``September 20, 2005''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or certificate 
                holder'' after ``licensee''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) Aggregate amount of charges.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The aggregate amount of the 
                annual charges collected from all licensees and 
                certificate holders in a fiscal year shall equal an 
                amount that approximates the percentages of the budget 
                authority of the Commission for the fiscal year stated 
                in subparagraph (B), less--
                          ``(i) amounts collected under subsection (b) 
                      during the fiscal year; and
                          ``(ii) amounts appropriated to the Commission 
                      from the Nuclear Waste Fund for the fiscal year.
                    ``(B) Percentages.--The percentages referred to in 
                subparagraph (A) are--
                          ``(i) 98 percent for fiscal year 2001;
                          ``(ii) 96 percent for fiscal year 2002;
                          ``(iii) 94 percent for fiscal year 2003;
                          ``(iv) 92 percent for fiscal year 2004; and
                          ``(v) 90 percent for fiscal year 2005.''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.