[106th Congress Public Law 522]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ522.106]


[[Page 2439]]

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2001

[[Page 114 STAT.2440]]

Public Law 106-522
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and 
other activities chargeable in whole or in part against the revenues of 
  said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 22, 2000 -  [H.R. 5633]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                              FEDERAL FUNDS

              Federal Payment for Resident Tuition Support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for a nationwide 
program to be administered by the Mayor for District of Columbia 
resident tuition support, $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such funds may be used on behalf of eligible 
District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, usable at both public and private 
institutions for higher education: Provided further, That the awarding 
of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a resident's academic 
merit and such other factors as may be authorized.

         Federal Payment for Incentives for Adoption of Children

    The paragraph under the heading ``Federal Payment for Incentives for 
Adoption of Children'' in Public Law 106-113, approved November 29, 1999 
(113 Stat. 1501), is amended to read as follows: ``For a Federal payment 
to the District of Columbia to create incentives to promote the adoption 
of children in the District of Columbia foster care system, $5,000,000: 
Provided, That such funds shall remain available until September 30, 
2002, and shall be used to carry out all of the provisions of title 38, 
except for section 3808, of the Fiscal Year 2001 Budget Support Act of 
2000, D.C. Bill 13-679, enrolled June 12, 2000.''.

   Federal Payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                                Columbia

    For a Federal payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District 
of Columbia, $1,250,000, of which $250,000 shall be for

[[Page 114 STAT.2441]]

payment to a mentoring program and for hotline services; $250,000 shall 
be for payment to a youth development program with a character building 
curriculum; $250,000 shall be for payment to a basic values training 
program; and $500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
the design, construction, and maintenance of a trash rack system to be 
installed at the Hickey Run stormwater outfall.

          Federal Payment for Commercial Revitalization Program

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, $1,500,000, to 
remain available until expended, for the Mayor, in consultation with the 
Council of the District of Columbia, to provide offsets against local 
taxes for a commercial revitalization program, such program to provide 
financial inducements, including loans, grants, offsets to local taxes 
and other instruments that promote commercial revitalization in 
Enterprise Zones and low and moderate income areas in the District of 
Columbia: Provided, That in carrying out such a program, the Mayor shall 
use Federal commercial revitalization proposals introduced in Congress 
as a guideline: Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>> That not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Mayor 
shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House 
of Representatives on the progress made in carrying out the commercial 
revitalization program.

       Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Public Schools

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Public Schools, 
$500,000: Provided, That $250,000 of said amount shall be used for a 
program to reduce school violence: Provided further, That $250,000 of 
said amount shall be used for a program to enhance the reading skills of 
District public school students.

          Federal Payment to the Metropolitan Police Department

    For a Federal payment to the Metropolitan Police Department, 
$100,000: Provided, That said funds shall be used to fund a youth safe 
haven police mini-station for mentoring high risk youth.

            Federal Contribution to Covenant House Washington

    For a Federal contribution to Covenant House Washington for a 
contribution to the construction in Southeast Washington of a new 
community service center for homeless, runaway and at-risk youth, 
$500,000.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For salaries and expenses of the District of Columbia Corrections 
Trustee, $134,200,000 for the administration and operation of 
correctional facilities and for the administrative operating costs of 
the Office of the Corrections Trustee, as authorized by section 11202 of 
the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act 
of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712) of which $1,000,000 is to 
fund an initiative to improve case processing in the District of 
Columbia criminal justice system: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated

[[Page 114 STAT.2442]]

in this Act for the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, That 
in addition to the funds provided under this heading, the District of 
Columbia Corrections Trustee may use any remaining interest earned on 
the Federal payment made to the Trustee under the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1998, to carry out the activities funded under this 
heading.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$105,000,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $7,409,000; for the District of Columbia Superior 
Court, $71,121,000; for the District of Columbia Court System, 
$17,890,000; $5,255,000 to finance a pay adjustment of 8.48 percent for 
nonjudicial employees; and $3,325,000, including $825,000 for roofing 
repairs to the facility commonly referred to as the Old Courthouse and 
located at 451 Indiana Avenue, Northwest, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, for capital improvements for District of Columbia 
courthouse facilities: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act or 
in any other Act shall be available for the purchase, installation, or 
operation of an Integrated Justice Information System until a detailed 
plan and design has been submitted by the courts and approved by the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Reports.>> That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies, with 
payroll and financial services to be provided on a contractual basis 
with the General Services Administration (GSA), said services to include 
the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies of which shall be 
submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government 
Reform of the House of Representatives.

            Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under the District of 
Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel appointed in 
proceedings in the Family Division of the Superior Court of the District 
of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code, and payments for 
counsel authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Code (relating to 
representation provided under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$34,387,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
funds provided in this Act under the heading ``Federal Payment to the 
District of Columbia Courts'' (other than the $3,325,000 provided under 
such heading for capital improvements for District of Columbia 
courthouse facilities) may also be used for payments under this heading: 
Provided further, That, in addition to the funds provided under this 
heading, the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in

[[Page 114 STAT.2443]]

the District of Columbia shall use funds provided in this Act under the 
heading ``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts'' (other 
than the $3,325,000 provided under such heading for capital improvements 
for District of Columbia courthouse facilities), to make payments 
described under this heading for obligations incurred during any fiscal 
year: Provided further, That such funds shall be administered by the 
Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Reports.>> That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, this appropriation shall be apportioned 
quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and 
expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for expenses of other 
Federal agencies, with payroll and financial services to be provided on 
a contractual basis with the General Services Administration (GSA), said 
services to include the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies 
of which shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, 
the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee 
on Government Reform of the House of Representatives: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That the District of Columbia Courts shall 
implement the recommendations in the General Accounting Office Report 
GAO/AIMD/OGC-99-226 regarding payments to court-appointed attorneys and 
shall report quarterly to the Office of Management and Budget and to the 
House and Senate Appropriations Committees on the status of these 
reforms.

 Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
                      for the District of Columbia

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (Public Law 
105-33; 111 Stat. 712), $112,527,000, of which $67,521,000 shall be for 
necessary expenses of Community Supervision and Sex Offender 
Registration, to include expenses relating to supervision of adults 
subject to protection orders or provision of services for or related to 
such persons; $18,778,000 shall be transferred to the Public Defender 
Service; and $26,228,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services 
Agency: Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading, 
$17,854,000 shall be used to improve pretrial defendant and post-
conviction offender supervision, enhance drug testing and sanctions-
based treatment programs and other treatment services, expand 
intermediate sanctions and offender re-entry programs, continue planning 
and design proposals for a residential Sanctions Center and improve 
administrative infrastructure, including information technology; and 
$836,000 of the $17,854,000 referred to in this proviso is for the 
Public Defender Service: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 446 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act or 
any provision of subchapter III of chapter 13 of title 31, United States 
Code, the use of interest earned on

[[Page 114 STAT.2444]]

the Federal payment made to the District of Columbia Offender 
Supervision, Defender, and Court Services Agency under the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 1998, by the Agency during fiscal years 
1998 and 1999 shall not constitute a violation of such Act or such 
subchapter.

            Federal Payment for Washington Interfaith Network

    For a Federal payment to the Washington Interfaith Network to 
reimburse the Network for costs incurred in carrying out preconstruction 
activities at the former Fort Dupont Dwellings and Additions, 
$1,000,000: Provided, That such activities may include architectural and 
engineering studies, property appraisals, environmental assessments, 
grading and excavation, landscaping, paving, and the installation of 
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sewer lines, and other utilities: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall make such payment only 
after the Network has received matching funds from private sources 
(including funds provided through loans) to carry out such activities in 
an aggregate amount which is equal to the amount of such payment (as 
certified by the Inspector General of the District of Columbia) and has 
provided the Secretary of the Treasury with a request for reimbursement 
which contains documentation certified by the Inspector General of the 
District of Columbia showing that the Network carried out the activities 
and that the costs incurred in carrying out the activities were equal to 
or less than the amount of the reimbursement requested: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading may be 
obligated or expended after December 31, 2001 (without regard to whether 
the activities involved were carried out prior to such date).

   Federal Payment for Plan To Simplify Employee Compensation Systems

    For a Federal payment to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for a 
contract for the study and development of a plan to simplify the 
compensation systems, schedules, and work rules applicable to employees 
of the District government, $250,000: Provided, That under the terms of 
the contract the plan shall include (at a minimum) a review of the 
current compensation systems, schedules, and work rules applicable to 
such employees; a review of the best practices regarding the 
compensation systems, schedules, and work rules of State and local 
governments and other appropriate organizations; a proposal for 
simplifying the systems, schedules, and rules applicable to employees of 
the District government; and the development of strategies for 
implementing such proposal, including an identification of any 
statutory, contractual, or other barriers to implementing the proposal 
and an estimated time frame for implementing the proposal: Provided 
further, That under the terms of the contract the contractor shall 
submit the plan to the Mayor and to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts. Deadline.>> That the Mayor shall develop a 
proposed solicitation for the contract not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and shall submit a copy of the 
proposed solicitation to the Comptroller General for review at least 90 
days prior to the issuance of such solicitation: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> That not later than 45 days after 
receiving the proposed solicitation from the Mayor, the Comptroller

[[Page 114 STAT.2445]]

General shall review the solicitation to ensure that it adequately 
addresses all of the necessary elements described under this heading and 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate on the results of this review: Provided 
further, That for purposes of this contract the term ``District 
government'' has the meaning given such term in section 305(5) of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995 (sec. 47-393(5), D.C. Code), except that such term shall not 
include the courts of the District of Columbia and shall include the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority.

                         Metrorail Construction

    For the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), a 
contribution of $25,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
design and build a Metrorail station located at New York and Florida 
Avenues, Northeast: Provided, That prior to the release of said funds 
from the U.S. Treasury, the District of Columbia shall set aside an 
additional $25,000,000 for this project in its Fiscal Year 2001 Budget 
and Financial Plan and, further, shall establish a special taxing 
district for the neighborhood of the proposed Metrorail station to 
provide $25,000,000: Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the 
requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5309(a)(2) shall apply to this project.

               Federal Payment for Brownfield Remediation

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, $3,450,000 for 
environmental and infrastructure costs at Poplar Point: Provided, That 
of said amount, $2,150,000 shall be available for environmental 
assessment, site remediation, and wetlands restoration of the 11 acres 
of real property under the jurisdiction of the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That no more than $1,300,000 shall be used for 
infrastructure costs for an entrance to Anacostia Park: Provided 
further, That none of said funds shall be used by the District of 
Columbia to purchase private property in the Poplar Point area.

                        Presidential Inauguration

    For a payment to the District of Columbia to reimburse the District 
for expenses incurred in connection with Presidential inauguration 
activities, $5,961,000, as authorized by section 737(b) of the District 
of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 824; 
D.C. Code, sec. 1-1132), which shall be apportioned by the Chief 
Financial Officer within the various appropriation headings in this Act.

                   Children's National Medical Center

    For a Federal contribution to the Children's National Medical Center 
in the District of Columbia, $500,000 to be used for the network of 
satellite pediatric health clinics for children and families in 
underserved neighborhoods and communities in the District of Columbia.

[[Page 114 STAT.2446]]

                          Child Advocacy Center

    For a Federal contribution to the Child Advocacy Center for its Safe 
Shores program, $500,000.

           St. Coletta of Greater Washington Expansion Project

    For a Federal contribution to St. Coletta of Greater Washington, 
Inc. for costs associated with the establishment of a day program and 
comprehensive case management services for mentally retarded and 
multiple-handicapped adolescents and adults in the District of Columbia, 
including property acquisition and construction, $1,000,000.

                  District of Columbia Special Olympics

    For a Federal contribution to the District of Columbia Special 
Olympics, $250,000.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in 
section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act and section 126 
of this Act, the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating 
expenses for the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2001 under this 
heading shall not exceed the lesser of the sum of the total revenues of 
the District of Columbia for such fiscal year or $5,677,379,000 (of 
which $172,607,000 shall be from intra-District funds and $3,250,783,000 
shall be from local funds): Provided further, That the Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority shall take 
such steps as are necessary to assure that the District of Columbia 
meets these requirements, including the apportioning by the Chief 
Financial Officer of the appropriations and funds made available to the 
District during fiscal year 2001, except that the Chief Financial 
Officer may not reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from 
bonds, notes, or other obligations issued for capital projects.

District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                                Authority

    For the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority (Authority), established by section 101(a) of the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 97; Public Law 104-8), $3,140,000: Provided, That 
these funds be derived from accounts held by the Authority on behalf of 
the District of Columbia: Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this Act may be used to pay any compensation of the 
Executive Director or General Counsel of the Authority at a rate in 
excess

[[Page 114 STAT.2447]]

of the maximum rate of compensation which may be paid to such individual 
during fiscal year 2001 under section 102 of such Act, as determined by 
the Comptroller General (as described in GAO letter report B-279095.2): 
Provided further, That none of the funds contained in this Act or any 
other funds available to the Authority or any other entity of the 
District of Columbia government from any source (including any accounts 
of the Authority) may be used for any payments (including but not 
limited to severance or bonus payments, and payments under agreements in 
effect before the enactment of this Act) to any individual upon or 
following the individual's separation from employment with the Authority 
(other than a payment of the individual's regular salary for services 
performed prior to separation or a payment for unused annual leave 
accrued by the individual), except that an individual who is employed by 
the Authority during the entire period which begins on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ends on September 30, 2001, may receive a 
severance payment after such date in an aggregate amount which does not 
exceed the product of 200 percent of the individual's average weekly 
salary during the final 12-month period (or portion thereof ) during 
which the individual was employed by the Authority and the number of 
full years during which the individual was employed by the Authority.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $195,771,000 (including 
$162,172,000 from local funds, $20,424,000 from Federal funds, and 
$13,175,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall be available from 
this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That any 
program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available for 
the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal sources 
shall be used to support the operations or activities of the Statehood 
Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for Admission 
to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: Provided further, 
That all employees permanently assigned to work in the Office of the 
Mayor shall be paid from funds allocated to the Office of the Mayor: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or 
Mayor's Order 86-45, issued March 18, 1986, the Office of the Chief 
Technology Officer's delegated small purchase authority shall be 
$500,000: Provided further, That the District of Columbia government may 
not require the Office of the Chief Technology Officer to submit to any 
other procurement review process, or to obtain the approval of or be 
restricted in any manner by any official or employee of the District of 
Columbia government, for purchases that do not exceed $500,000: Provided 
further, That $303,000 and no fewer than 5 FTEs shall be available 
exclusively to support the Labor-Management Partnership Council: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective date.>> That, effective September 
30, 2000, section 168(a) of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
2000 (Public Law 106-113; 113 Stat. 1531) is amended by inserting ``, to 
remain available until expended,'' after ``$5,000,000'': Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Study.>> That not later than March 1, 2001, 
the Chief Financial Officer of the District

[[Page 114 STAT.2448]]

of Columbia shall submit a study to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate on the merits and potential 
savings of privatizing the operation and administration of Saint 
Elizabeths Hospital.

                   Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $205,638,000 (including 
$53,562,000 from local funds, $92,378,000 from Federal funds, and 
$59,698,000 from other funds), of which $15,000,000 collected by the 
District of Columbia in the form of BID tax revenue shall be paid to the 
respective BIDs pursuant to the Business Improvement Districts Act of 
1996 (D.C. Law 11-134; D.C. Code, sec. 1-2271 et seq.), and the Business 
Improvement Districts Amendment Act of 1997 (D.C. Law 12-26): Provided, 
That such funds are available for acquiring services provided by the 
General Services Administration: Provided further, That Business 
Improvement Districts shall be exempt from taxes levied by the District 
of Columbia.

                        Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, including purchase or lease of 135 
passenger carrying vehicles for replacement only, including 130 for 
police-type use and five for fire-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year, and such 
sums as may be necessary for making refunds and for the payment of 
judgments that have been entered against the District of Columbia 
government $762,546,000 (including $591,565,000 from local funds, 
$24,950,000 from Federal funds, and $146,031,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That the Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to 
replace not to exceed 25 passenger-carrying vehicles and the Department 
of Fire and Emergency Medical Services of the District of Columbia is 
authorized to replace not to exceed five passenger-carrying vehicles 
annually whenever the cost of repair to any damaged vehicle exceeds 
three-fourths of the cost of the replacement: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $500,000 shall be available from this appropriation for the 
Chief of Police for the prevention and detection of crime: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or Mayor's 
Order 86-45, issued March 18, 1986, the Metropolitan Police Department's 
delegated small purchase authority shall be $500,000: Provided further, 
That the District of Columbia government may not require the 
Metropolitan Police Department to submit to any other procurement review 
process, or to obtain the approval of or be restricted in any manner by 
any official or employee of the District of Columbia government, for 
purchases that do not exceed $500,000: Provided further, That the Mayor 
shall reimburse the District of Columbia National Guard for expenses 
incurred in connection with services that are performed in emergencies 
by the National Guard in a militia status and are requested by the 
Mayor, in amounts that shall be jointly determined and certified as due 
and payable for these services by the Mayor and the Commanding General 
of the District of Columbia National Guard: Provided further, That such 
sums as may be necessary for reimbursement to the District of Columbia 
National Guard

[[Page 114 STAT.2449]]

under the preceding proviso shall be available from this appropriation, 
and the availability of the sums shall be deemed as constituting payment 
in advance for emergency services involved: Provided further, That the 
Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to maintain 3,800 sworn 
officers, with leave for a 50 officer attrition: Provided further, That 
no more than 15 members of the Metropolitan Police Department shall be 
detailed or assigned to the Executive Protection Unit, until the Chief 
of Police submits a recommendation to the Council for its review: 
Provided further, That $100,000 shall be available for inmates released 
on medical and geriatric parole: Provided further, <<NOTE: Effective 
date. Reports.>> That commencing on December 31, 2000, the Metropolitan 
Police Department shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government Reform of the 
House of Representatives, quarterly reports on the status of crime 
reduction in each of the 83 police service areas established throughout 
the District of Columbia.

                         Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $998,918,000 (including $824,867,000 from 
local funds, $147,643,000 from Federal funds, and $26,408,000 from other 
funds), to be allocated as follows: $769,943,000 (including $629,309,000 
from local funds, $133,490,000 from Federal funds, and $7,144,000 from 
other funds), for the public schools of the District of Columbia; 
$200,000 from local funds for the District of Columbia Teachers' 
Retirement Fund; $1,679,000 from local funds for the State Education 
Office, $17,000,000 from local funds, previously appropriated in this 
Act as a Federal payment, for resident tuition support at public and 
private institutions of higher learning for eligible District of 
Columbia residents; and $105,000,000 from local funds for public charter 
schools: Provided, <<NOTE: Charter schools. Reports.>> That there shall 
be quarterly disbursement of funds to the District of Columbia public 
charter schools, with the first payment to occur within 15 days of the 
beginning of each fiscal year: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia public charter schools will report enrollment on a quarterly 
basis upon which a quarterly disbursement will be calculated: Provided 
further, That the quarterly payment of October 15, 2000, shall be 50 
percent of each public charter school's annual entitlement based on its 
unaudited October 5 enrollment count: Provided further, That if the 
entirety of this allocation has not been provided as payments to any 
public charter schools currently in operation through the per pupil 
funding formula, the funds shall be available for public education in 
accordance with the School Reform Act of 1995 (D.C. Code, sec. 31-
2853.43(A)(2)(D); Public Law 104-134, as amended): Provided further, 
That $480,000 of this amount shall be available to the District of 
Columbia Public Charter School Board for administrative costs: Provided 
further, That $76,433,000 (including $44,691,000 from local funds, 
$13,199,000 from Federal funds, and $18,543,000 from other funds) shall 
be available for the University of the District of Columbia: Provided 
further, That $200,000 is allocated for the East of the River Campus 
Assessment Study, $1,000,000 for the Excel Institute Adult Education 
Program to be used by the Institute for construction and to acquire 
construction services provided by the General

[[Page 114 STAT.2450]]

Services Administration on a reimbursable basis, $500,000 for the Adult 
Education State Plan, $650,000 for The Saturday Academy Pre-College 
Program, and $481,000 for the Strengthening of Academic Programs; and 
$26,459,000 (including $25,208,000 from local funds, $550,000 from 
Federal funds and $701,000 other funds) for the Public Library: Provided 
further, That the $1,020,000 enhancement shall be allocated such that 
$500,000 is used for facilities improvements for 8 of the 26 library 
branches, $235,000 for 13 FTEs for the continuation of the Homework 
Helpers Program, $166,000 for 3 FTEs in the expansion of the Reach Out 
And Roar (ROAR) service to license day care homes, and $119,000 for 3 
FTEs to expand literacy support into branch libraries: Provided further, 
That $2,204,000 (including $1,780,000 from local funds, $404,000 from 
Federal funds and $20,000 from other funds) shall be available for the 
Commission on the Arts and Humanities: Provided further, That the public 
schools of the District of Columbia are authorized to accept not to 
exceed 31 motor vehicles for exclusive use in the driver education 
program: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 for the 
Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the President of the University of 
the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for the Public Librarian shall be 
available from this appropriation for official purposes: Provided 
further, That none of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the salaries of any District of Columbia Public School 
teacher, principal, administrator, official, or employee who knowingly 
provides false enrollment or attendance information under article II, 
section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for compulsory school 
attendance, for the taking of a school census in the District of 
Columbia, and for other purposes'', approved February 4, 1925 (D.C. 
Code, sec. 31-401 et seq.): Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall not be available to subsidize the education of any nonresident of 
the District of Columbia at any District of Columbia public elementary 
and secondary school during fiscal year 2001 unless the nonresident pays 
tuition to the District of Columbia at a rate that covers 100 percent of 
the costs incurred by the District of Columbia which are attributable to 
the education of the nonresident (as established by the Superintendent 
of the District of Columbia Public Schools): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall not be available to subsidize the education of 
nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the University of the 
District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of the University of 
the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2001, a tuition rate schedule that will establish the tuition rate 
for nonresident students at a level no lower than the nonresident 
tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of higher 
education in the metropolitan area: Provided further, That $2,200,000 is 
allocated to the Temporary Weighted Student Formula to fund 344 
additional slots for pre-K students: Provided further, That $50,000 is 
allocated to fund a conference on learning support for children ages 3-4 
hosted jointly by the District of Columbia Public Schools and District 
of Columbia public charter schools: Provided further, That no local 
funds in this Act shall be used to administer a system-wide standardized 
test more than once in fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That no less 
than $436,452,000 shall be expended on local schools through the 
Weighted Student Formula: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, rule, or regulation, the evaluation process and

[[Page 114 STAT.2451]]

instruments for evaluating District of Columbia Public School employees 
shall be a non-negotiable item for collective bargaining purposes: 
Provided further, That the District of Columbia Public Schools shall 
spend $250,000 to engage in a Schools Without Violence program based on 
a model developed by the University of North Carolina, located in 
Greensboro, North Carolina: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia Public Schools shall spend $250,000 to implement a Failure Free 
Reading program in the District's public schools: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the amounts otherwise provided under this heading or any 
other provision of law, there shall be appropriated to the District of 
Columbia public charter schools on July 1, 2001, an amount equal to 25 
percent of the total amount provided for payments to public charter 
schools in the proposed budget of the District of Columbia for fiscal 
year 2002 (as submitted to Congress), and the amount of such payment 
shall be chargeable against the final amount provided for such payments 
under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2002: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the amounts otherwise provided under this 
heading or any other provision of law, there shall be appropriated to 
the District of Columbia Public Schools on July 1, 2001, an amount equal 
to 10 percent of the total amount provided for the District of Columbia 
Public Schools in the proposed budget of the District of Columbia for 
fiscal year 2002 (as submitted to Congress), and the amount of such 
payment shall be chargeable against the final amount provided for the 
District of Columbia Public Schools under the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2002.

                         Human Support Services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Human support services, $1,535,654,000 (including $637,347,000 from 
local funds, $881,589,000 from Federal funds, and $16,718,000 from other 
funds): Provided, That $25,836,000 of this appropriation, to remain 
available until expended, shall be available solely for District of 
Columbia employees' disability compensation: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall not provide free government services such as 
water, sewer, solid waste disposal or collection, utilities, 
maintenance, repairs, or similar services to any legally constituted 
private nonprofit organization, as defined in section 411(5) of the 
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (101 Stat. 485; Public Law 
100-77; 42 U.S.C. 11371), providing emergency shelter services in the 
District, if the District would not be qualified to receive 
reimbursement pursuant to such Act (101 Stat. 485; Public Law 100-77; 42 
U.S.C. 11301 et seq.): Provided further, That $1,250,000 shall be paid 
to the Doe Fund for the operation of its Ready, Willing, and Able 
Program in the District of Columbia as follows: $250,000 to cover debt 
owed by the District of Columbia government for services rendered shall 
be paid to the Doe Fund within 15 days of the enactment of this Act; and 
$1,000,000 shall be paid in equal monthly installments by the fifteenth 
day of each month: Provided further, That $400,000 shall be available 
for the administrative costs associated with implementation of the Drug 
Treatment Choice Program established pursuant to section 4 of the Choice 
in Drug Treatment Act of 2000, signed by the Mayor on April 20, 2000 
(D.C. Act 13-329): Provided further, That $7,000,000 shall

[[Page 114 STAT.2452]]

be available for deposit in the Addiction Recovery Fund established 
pursuant to section 5 of the Choice in Drug Treatment Act of 2000, 
signed by the Mayor on April 20, 2000 (D.C. Act 13-329): Provided 
further, That the District of Columbia is authorized to enter into a 
long-term lease of Hamilton Field with Gonzaga College High School and 
that, in exchange for such a lease, Gonzaga will introduce and implement 
a youth baseball program focused on 13 to 18 year old residents, said 
program to include summer and fall baseball programs and baseball 
clinics: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, to augment the District of Columbia subsidy for the District of 
Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation, the District 
of Columbia may transfer from other non-Federal funds appropriated under 
this Act to the Human Support Services appropriation under this Act an 
amount not to exceed $90,000,000 for the purpose of restructuring the 
delivery of health services in the District of Columbia: Provided 
further, That such restructuring shall be pursuant to a restructuring 
plan approved by the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Council of 
the District of Columbia, the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, and the Board of 
Directors of the Public Benefit Corporation: Provided further, That--
            (1) the restructuring plan reduces personnel levels of D.C. 
        General Hospital and of the Public Benefit Corporation 
        consistent with the reduction in force set forth in the August 
        25, 2000, resolution of the Board of Directors of the Public 
        Benefit Corporation regarding personnel structure, by reducing 
        personnel by at least 500 full-time equivalent employees, 
        without replacement by contract personnel;
            (2) no transferred funds are expended until 10 calendar days 
        after the restructuring plan has received final approval and a 
        copy evidencing final approval has been submitted by the Mayor 
        to the Committee on Government Reform of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate; and
            (3) the plan includes a certification that the plan does not 
        request and does not rely upon any current or future request for 
        additional appropriation of Federal funds.

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle for 
use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by the 
Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-carrying 
vehicles, $278,242,000 (including $265,078,000 from local funds, 
$3,328,000 from Federal funds, and $9,836,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for collecting 
ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business: 
Provided further, That $100,000 shall be available for a commercial 
sector recycling initiative, $250,000 to initiate a recycling education 
campaign, $10,000 for community clean-up kits, $190,000 to restore a 3.5 
percent vacancy rate in Parking Services, $170,000 to plant 500 trees, 
$118,000 for two water trucks, $150,000 for contract monitors and 
parking analysts within Parking Services, $1,409,000 for a neighborhood 
cleanup initiative, $1,000,000 for tree maintenance, $600,000 for an 
anti-

[[Page 114 STAT.2453]]

graffiti program, $226,000 for a hazardous waste program, $1,260,000 for 
parking control aides, and $400,000 for the Department of Motor Vehicles 
to hire additional ticket adjudicators, conduct additional hearings, and 
reduce the waiting time for hearings.

                          Receivership Programs

    For all agencies of the District of Columbia government under court 
ordered receivership, $389,528,000 (including $234,913,000 from local 
funds, $135,555,000 from Federal funds, and $19,060,000 from other 
funds).

                                 Reserve

    For replacement of funds expended, if any, during fiscal year 2000 
from the Reserve established by section 202( j) of the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, 
Public Law 104-8, $150,000,000 from local funds: Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be obligated or expended under this heading until the 
emergency reserve fund established under this Act has been fully funded 
for fiscal year 2001 pursuant to section 450A of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act as set forth herein.

                         Emergency Reserve Fund

    For the emergency reserve fund established under section 450A(a) of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, the amount provided for fiscal 
year 2001 under such section, to be derived from local funds.

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For payment of principal, interest and certain fees directly 
resulting from borrowing by the District of Columbia to fund District of 
Columbia capital projects as authorized by sections 462, 475, and 490 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, approved December 24, 1973, 
$243,238,000 from local funds: Provided, That any funds set aside 
pursuant to section 148 of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
2000 (Public Law 106-113; 113 Stat. 1523) that are not used in the 
reserve funds established herein shall be used for Pay-As-You-Go Capital 
Funds: Provided further, That for equipment leases, the Mayor may 
finance $19,232,000 of equipment cost, plus cost of issuance not to 
exceed 2 percent of the par amount being financed on a lease purchase 
basis with a maturity not to exceed 5 years: Provided further, That 
$2,000,000 is allocated to the Metropolitan Police Department, 
$4,300,000 for the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department, 
$1,622,000 for the Public Library, $2,010,000 for the Department of 
Parks and Recreation, $7,500,000 for the Department of Public Works, and 
$1,800,000 for the Public Benefit Corporation.

                 Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $39,300,000 from local 
funds, as authorized by section 461(a) of the District of

[[Page 114 STAT.2454]]

Columbia Home Rule Act, (105 Stat. 540; D.C. Code, sec. 47-321(a)(1)).

               Payment of Interest on Short-Term Borrowing

    For payment of interest on short-term borrowing, $1,140,000 from 
local funds.

                        Presidential Inauguration

    For reimbursement for necessary expenses incurred in connection with 
Presidential inauguration activities as authorized by section 737(b) of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, Public Law 93-198, as amended, 
approved December 24, 1973 (87 Stat. 824; D.C. Code, sec. 1-1803), 
$5,961,000 from local funds, previously appropriated in this Act as a 
Federal payment, which shall be apportioned by the Chief Financial 
Officer within the various appropriation headings in this Act.

                      Certificates of Participation

    For lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of 
Participation involving the land site underlying the building located at 
One Judiciary Square, $7,950,000 from local funds.

                             Wilson Building

    For expenses associated with the John A. Wilson Building, $8,409,000 
from local funds.

                  Optical and Dental Insurance Payments

    For optical and dental insurance payments, $2,675,000 from local 
funds.

                     Management Supervisory Service

    For management supervisory service, $13,200,000 from local funds, to 
be transferred by the Mayor of the District of Columbia among the 
various appropriation headings in this Act for which employees are 
properly payable.

             Tobacco Settlement Trust Fund Transfer Payment

    Subject to the issuance of bonds to pay the purchase price of the 
District of Columbia's right, title and interest in and to the Master 
Settlement Agreement, and consistent with the Tobacco Settlement 
Financing and Trust Fund Amendment Act of 2000, there is transferred the 
amount available pursuant thereto, but not to exceed $61,406,000, to the 
Tobacco Settlement Trust Fund established pursuant to section 2302 of 
the Tobacco Settlement Trust Fund Establishment Act of 1999, effective 
October 20, 1999 (D.C. Law 13-38; to be codified at D.C. Code, sec. 6-
135), to be spent pursuant to local law.

[[Page 114 STAT.2455]]

    Operational Improvements Savings (Including Managed Competition)

    The Mayor and the Council, in consultation with the Chief Financial 
Officer and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, shall make reductions of $10,000,000 
for operational improvements savings in local funds to one or more of 
the appropriation headings in this Act.

                        Management Reform Savings

    The Mayor and the Council, in consultation with the Chief Financial 
Officer and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, shall make reductions of $37,000,000 
for management reform savings in local funds to one or more of the 
appropriation headings in this Act.

                         Cafeteria Plan Savings

    For the implementation of a Cafeteria Plan pursuant to Federal law, 
a reduction of $5,000,000 in local funds.

                       ENTERPRISE AND OTHER FUNDS

          Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For operation of the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington 
Aqueduct, $275,705,000 from other funds (including $230,614,000 for the 
Water and Sewer Authority and $45,091,000 for the Washington Aqueduct) 
of which $41,503,000 shall be apportioned and payable to the District's 
debt service fund for repayment of loans and interest incurred for 
capital improvement projects.
    For construction projects, $140,725,000, as authorized by the Act 
entitled ``An Act authorizing the laying of watermains and service 
sewers in the District of Columbia, the levying of assessments therefor, 
and for other purposes'' (33 Stat. 244; Public Law 58-140; D.C. Code, 
sec. 43-1512 et seq.): Provided, That the requirements and restrictions 
that are applicable to general fund capital improvements projects and 
set forth in this Act under the Capital Outlay appropriation title shall 
apply to projects approved under this appropriation title.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established by 
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1982 (95 Stat. 1174, 1175; Public Law 97-91), for the 
purpose of implementing the Law to Legalize Lotteries, Daily Numbers 
Games, and Bingo and Raffles for Charitable Purposes in the District of 
Columbia (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Code, sec. 2-2501 et seq. and sec. 22-
1516 et seq.), $223,200,000: Provided, That the District of Columbia 
shall identify the source of funding for this appropriation title from 
the District's own locally generated revenues: Provided further, That no 
revenues from Federal sources shall be used to support the operations or 
activities of the Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board.

[[Page 114 STAT.2456]]

                   Sports and Entertainment Commission

    For the Sports and Entertainment Commission, $10,968,000 from other 
funds: Provided, That the Mayor shall submit a budget for the Armory 
Board for the forthcoming fiscal year as required by section 442(b) of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 824; Public Law 93-198; 
D.C. Code, sec. 47-301(b)).

  District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the District of Columbia Health and Hospitals Public Benefit 
Corporation, established by D.C. Law 11-212 (D.C. Code, sec. 32-262.2), 
$123,548,000, of which $45,313,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
general fund, and $78,235,000 from other funds: Provided, That no 
appropriated amounts and no amounts from or guaranteed by the District 
of Columbia government (including the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority) may be made 
available to the Corporation (through reprogramming, transfers, loans, 
or any other mechanism) which are not otherwise provided for under this 
heading until a restructuring plan for D.C. General Hospital has been 
approved by the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Council of the 
District of Columbia, the Authority, the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia, and the Chair of the Board of Directors of the 
Corporation: Provided further, That for each payment or group of 
payments made by or on behalf of the Corporation, the Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall sign an affidavit certifying 
that the making of the payment does not constitute a violation of any 
provision of subchapter III of chapter 13 of title 31, United States 
Code, or of any provision of this Act: Provided further, That more than 
one payment may be covered by the same affidavit under the previous 
proviso, but a single affidavit may not cover more than one week's worth 
of payments: Provided further, That it shall be unlawful for any person 
to order any other person to sign any affidavit required under this 
heading, or for any person to provide any signature required under this 
heading on such an affidavit by proxy or by machine, computer, or other 
facsimile device.

                  District of Columbia Retirement Board

    For the District of Columbia Retirement Board, established by 
section 121 of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979 
(93 Stat. 866; D.C. Code, sec. 1-711), $11,414,000 from the earnings of 
the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, investment, 
and other fees and administrative expenses of the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board: Provided, That the District of Columbia Retirement 
Board shall provide to the Congress and to the Council of the District 
of Columbia a quarterly report of the allocations of charges by fund and 
of expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the District of 
Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for transmittal to 
the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized accounting of the 
planned use of appropriated funds in time for each annual

[[Page 114 STAT.2457]]

budget submission and the actual use of such funds in time for each 
annual audited financial report.

                      Correctional Industries Fund

    For the Correctional Industries Fund, established by the District of 
Columbia Correctional Industries Establishment Act (78 Stat. 1000; 
Public Law 88-622), $1,808,000 from other funds.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $52,726,000 
from other funds.

                             Capital Outlay

                         (including rescissions)

    For construction projects, an increase of $1,077,282,000 of which 
$806,787,000 is from local funds, $66,446,000 is from highway trust 
funds, and $204,049,000 is from Federal funds, and a rescission of 
$55,208,000 from local funds appropriated under this heading in prior 
fiscal years, for a net amount of $1,022,074,000 to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds for use of each capital project 
implementing agency shall be managed and controlled in accordance with 
all procedures and limitations established under the Financial 
Management System: Provided further, That all funds provided by this 
appropriation title shall be available only for the specific projects 
and purposes intended: Provided further, <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> That 
notwithstanding the foregoing, all authorizations for capital outlay 
projects, except those projects covered by the first sentence of section 
23(a) of the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 
90-495; D.C. Code, sec. 7-134, note), for which funds are provided by 
this appropriation title, shall expire on September 30, 2002, except 
authorizations for projects as to which funds have been obligated in 
whole or in part prior to September 30, 2002: Provided further, That 
upon expiration of any such project authorization, the funds provided 
herein for the project shall lapse.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for expenses 
of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations concerned with 
the work of the District of Columbia government, when authorized by the 
Mayor: Provided, That in the case of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, funds may be expended with the authorization of the chair of 
the Council.
    Sec. 103. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of judgments that have been entered against the 
District of Columbia government: Provided,

[[Page 114 STAT.2458]]

That nothing contained in this section shall be construed as modifying 
or affecting the provisions of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the 
District of Columbia Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947 (70 Stat. 78; 
Public Law 84-460; D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> (a) Requiring Mayor to Maintain 
Index.--Effective with respect to fiscal year 2001 and each succeeding 
fiscal year, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall maintain an 
index of all employment personal services and consulting contracts in 
effect on behalf of the District government, and shall include in the 
index specific information on any severance clause in effect under any 
such contract.

    (b) Public Inspection.--The index maintained under subsection (a) 
shall be kept available for public inspection during regular business 
hours.
    (c) Contracts Exempted.--Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect 
to any collective bargaining agreement or any contract entered into 
pursuant to such a collective bargaining agreement.
    (d) District Government Defined.--In this section, the term 
``District government'' means the government of the District of 
Columbia, including--
            (1) any department, agency or instrumentality of the 
        government of the District of Columbia;
            (2) any independent agency of the District of Columbia 
        established under part F of title IV of the District of Columbia 
        Home Rule Act or any other agency, board, or commission 
        established by the Mayor or the Council;
            (3) the Council of the District of Columbia;
            (4) any other agency, public authority, or public benefit 
        corporation which has the authority to receive monies directly 
        or indirectly from the District of Columbia (other than monies 
        received from the sale of goods, the provision of services, or 
        the loaning of funds to the District of Columbia); and
            (5) the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Authority.

    (e) No payment shall be made pursuant to any such contract subject 
to subsection (a), nor any severance payment made under such contract, 
if a copy of the contract has not been filed in the index. Interested 
parties may file copies of their contract or severance agreement in the 
index on their own behalf.
    Sec. 105. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 106. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be used 
to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, salary, past work experience, and 
salary history are not available for inspection by the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Government Reform, 
the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, and the Council of the 
District of Columbia, or their duly authorized representative.

[[Page 114 STAT.2459]]

    Sec. 108. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making payments 
authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977 
(D.C. Law 2-20; D.C. Code, sec. 47-421 et seq.).
    Sec. 109. No part of this appropriation shall be used for publicity 
or propaganda purposes or implementation of any policy including boycott 
designed to support or defeat legislation pending before Congress or any 
State legislature.
    Sec. 110. At the start of the fiscal year, the Mayor shall develop 
an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for capital outlay 
borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after the close of 
each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the District of 
Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending progress 
compared with projections.
    Sec. 111. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act to the 
agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2001, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure for 
an agency through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new 
programs; (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility center; 
(3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, limited or 
increased by Congress in this Act; (4) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any program, project, or responsibility center for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (5) reestablishes through 
reprogramming any program or project previously deferred through 
reprogramming; (6) augments existing programs, projects, or 
responsibility centers through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; <<NOTE: Notification.>> or 
(7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a specific 
program, project or responsibility center; unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of both the Senate and House of Representatives are 
notified in writing 30 days in advance of any reprogramming as set forth 
in this section.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification.>> None of the local funds contained in 
this Act may be available for obligation or expenditure for an agency 
through a reprogramming of funds which transfers any local funds from 
one appropriation to another unless the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and House of Representatives are notified in writing 30 days 
in advance of the transfer, except that in no event may the amount of 
any funds transferred exceed 2 percent of the local funds in the 
appropriation.

    Sec. 112. Consistent with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations under this Act shall be applied only to the objects for 
which the appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Code, sec. 1-601.1 et seq.), 
enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the District of Columbia Home Rule 
Act (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 1-242(3)), shall 
apply with respect to the compensation of District of Columbia 
employees: Provided, That for pay purposes, employees of the District of 
Columbia government shall not be subject to the provisions of title 5, 
United States Code.

[[Page 114 STAT.2460]]

    Sec. 114. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No later than 30 days after the end of 
the first quarter of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the 
District of Columbia the new fiscal year 2001 revenue estimates as of 
the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2001. These estimates shall 
be used in the budget request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2002. The officially revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the 
midyear report.

    Sec. 115. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth in 
section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-1183.3), except that the District 
of Columbia government or any agency thereof may renew or extend sole 
source contracts for which competition is not feasible or practical: 
Provided, That the determination as to whether to invoke the competitive 
bidding process has been made in accordance with duly promulgated rules 
and procedures and said determination has been reviewed and approved by 
the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
Assistance Authority.
    Sec. 116. For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), the term 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be synonymous with and refer 
specifically to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act, 
and any sequestration order shall be applied to each of the accounts 
rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts: Provided, That 
sequestration orders shall not be applied to any account that is 
specifically exempted from sequestration by the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 117. In the event a sequestration order is issued pursuant to 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 
1037: Public Law 99-177), after the amounts appropriated to the District 
of Columbia for the fiscal year involved have been paid to the District 
of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall pay to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, within 15 days after receipt of a request 
therefor from the Secretary of the Treasury, such amounts as are 
sequestered by the order: Provided, That the sequestration percentage 
specified in the order shall be applied proportionately to each of the 
Federal appropriation accounts in this Act that are not specifically 
exempted from sequestration by such Act.
    Sec. 118. Acceptance and Use of Gifts. (a) Approval by Mayor.--
            (1) In general.--An entity of the District of Columbia 
        government may accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal 
        year 2001 if--
                    (A) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the 
                gift or donation (except as provided in paragraph (2)); 
                and
                    (B) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry 
                out its authorized functions or duties.
            (2) Exception for council and courts.--The Council of the 
        District of Columbia and the District of Columbia courts may 
        accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor.

    (b) Records and Public Inspection.--Each entity of the District of 
Columbia government shall keep accurate and detailed

[[Page 114 STAT.2461]]

records of the acceptance and use of any gift or donation under 
subsection (a), and shall make such records available for audit and 
public inspection.
    (c) Independent Agencies Included.--For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``entity of the District of Columbia government'' 
includes an independent agency of the District of Columbia.
    (d) Exception for Board of Education.--This section shall not apply 
to the District of Columbia Board of Education, which may, pursuant to 
the laws and regulations of the District of Columbia, accept and use 
gifts to the public schools without prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 119. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be used 
by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or other 
costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or United 
States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of Columbia 
Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3-171; 
D.C. Code, sec. 1-113(d)).
    Sec. 120. (a) Modification of Contracting Requirements.--
            (1) Contracts subject to notice requirements.--Section 
        2204(c)(1)(A) of the District of Columbia School Reform Act 
        (sec. 31-2853.14(c)(1)(A), D.C. Code) is amended to read as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) Notice requirement for procurement 
                contracts.--
                          ``(i) In <<NOTE: District of Columbia 
                      Register, publication.>> general.--Except in the 
                      case of an emergency (as determined by the 
                      eligible chartering authority of a public charter 
                      school), with respect to any procurement contract 
                      proposed to be awarded by the public charter 
                      school and having a value equal to or exceeding 
                      $25,000, the school shall publish a notice of a 
                      request for proposals in the District of Columbia 
                      Register and newspapers of general circulation not 
                      less than 7 days prior to the award of the 
                      contract.
                          ``(ii) Exception for certain contracts.--The 
                      notice requirement of clause (i) shall not apply 
                      with respect to any contract for the lease or 
                      purchase of real property by a public charter 
                      school, any employment contract for a staff member 
                      of a public charter school, or any management 
                      contract entered into by a public charter school 
                      and the management company designated in its 
                      charter or its petition for a revised charter.''.
            (2) Submission of contracts to eligible chartering 
        authority.--Section 2204(c)(1)(B) of such Act (sec. 31-
        2853.14(c)(1)(B), D.C. Code) is amended--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``authority'' and 
                inserting ``eligible chartering authority'';
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``Authority'' and 
                inserting ``eligible chartering authority''; and
                    (C) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
                          ``(ii) Effective date of contract.--A contract 
                      described in subparagraph (A) shall become 
                      effective on the date that is 10 days after the 
                      date the school makes the submission under clause 
                      (i) with respect to the contract, or the effective 
                      date specified in the contract, whichever is 
                      later.''.

[[Page 114 STAT.2462]]

    (b) Clarification of Application of School Reform Act.--
            (1) Waiver of duplicate and conflicting provisions.--Section 
        2210 of such Act (sec. 31-2853.20, D.C. Code) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Waiver of Application of Duplicate and Conflicting 
Provisions.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except as 
otherwise provided in this title, no provision of any law regarding the 
establishment, administration, or operation of public charter schools in 
the District of Columbia shall apply with respect to a public charter 
school or an eligible chartering authority to the extent that the 
provision duplicates or is inconsistent with any provision of this 
title.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
        District of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995.

    (c) Licensing Requirements for Preschool or Prekindergarten 
Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2204(c) of such Act (sec. 31-
        2853.14(c), D.C. Code) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(18) Licensing as child development center.--A public 
        charter school which offers a preschool or prekindergarten 
        program shall be subject to the same child care licensing 
        requirements (if any) which apply to a District of Columbia 
        public school which offers such a program.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 2202 of such Act 
        (sec. 31-2853.12, D.C. Code) is amended by striking clause (17).
            (B) Section 2203(h)(2) of such Act (sec. 31-2853.13(h)(2), 
        D.C. Code) is amended by striking ``(17),''.

    (d) Section 2403 of the District of Columbia School Reform Act of 
1995 (sec. 31-2853.43, D.C. Code) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) Assignment of Payments.--A public charter school may assign 
any payments made to the school under this section to a financial 
institution for use as collateral to secure a loan or for the repayment 
of a loan.''.
    (e) Section 2210 of the District of Columbia School Reform Act of 
1995 (sec. 31-2853.20, D.C. Code), as amended by subsection (b), is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Participation in GSA Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any provision of this Act 
        or any other provision of law, a public charter school may 
        acquire goods and services through the General Services 
        Administration and may participate in programs of the 
        Administration in the same manner and to the same extent as any 
        entity of the District of Columbia government.
            ``(2) Participation by certain organizations.--A public 
        charter school may delegate to a nonprofit, tax-exempt 
        organization in the District of Columbia the public charter 
        school's authority under paragraph (1).''.

    Sec. 121. Reporting Requirements for the District of Columbia Public 
Schools and the University of the District of Columbia. 
(a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Superintendent of the District of Columbia 
Public Schools (DCPS) and the University of the District of

[[Page 114 STAT.2463]]

Columbia (UDC) shall each submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate, the Committee on Government 
Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate no later than 15 calendar days after 
the end of each quarter a report that sets forth--
            (1) current quarter expenditures and obligations, year-to-
        date expenditures and obligations, and total fiscal year 
        expenditure projections versus budget broken out on the basis of 
        control center, responsibility center, and object class, and for 
        all funds, non-appropriated funds, and capital financing;
            (2) a list of each account for which spending is frozen and 
        the amount of funds frozen, broken out by control center, 
        responsibility center, detailed object, and for all funding 
        sources;
            (3) a list of all active contracts in excess of $10,000 
        annually, which contains the name of each contractor; the budget 
        to which the contract is charged, broken out on the basis of 
        control center, responsibility center, and agency reporting 
        code; and contract identifying codes used by DCPS and UDC; 
        payments made in the last quarter and year-to-date, the total 
        amount of the contract and total payments made for the contract 
        and any modifications, extensions, renewals; and specific 
        modifications made to each contract in the last month;
            (4) all reprogramming requests and reports that are required 
        to be, and have been, submitted to the Board of Education;
            (5) all reprogramming requests and reports that have been 
        made by UDC within the last quarter in compliance with 
        applicable law; and
            (6) changes made in the last quarter to the organizational 
        structure of DCPS and UDC, displaying for each entity previous 
        and current control centers and responsibility centers, the 
        names of the organizational entities that have been changed, the 
        name of the staff member supervising each entity affected, and 
        the reasons for the structural change.

    (b) The Superintendent of DCPS and UDC shall annually compile an 
accurate and verifiable report on the positions and employees in the 
public school system and the university, respectively. The annual report 
shall--
            (1) set forth the number of validated schedule A positions 
        in the District of Columbia public schools and UDC for fiscal 
        year 2001, and thereafter on full-time equivalent basis, 
        including a compilation of all positions by control center, 
        responsibility center, funding source, position type, position 
        title, pay plan, grade, and annual salary;
            (2) set forth a compilation of all employees in the District 
        of Columbia public schools and UDC as of the preceding December 
        31, verified as to its accuracy in accordance with the functions 
        that each employee actually performs, by control center, 
        responsibility center, agency reporting code, program (including 
        funding source), activity, location for accounting purposes, job 
        title, grade and classification, annual salary, and position 
        control number; and

[[Page 114 STAT.2464]]

            (3) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> be submitted to the Congress, the 
        Mayor, the District of Columbia Council, the Consensus 
        Commission, and the Authority, not later than February 15 of 
        each year.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No later than November 1, 2000, or within 30 
calendar days after the date of the enactment of this Act, whichever 
occurs later, and each succeeding year, the Superintendent of DCPS and 
UDC shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, 
the District of Columbia Council, the Consensus Commission, and the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the public 
school system and UDC for such fiscal year: (1) that is in the total 
amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns budgeted data for 
personal services and other-than-personal services, respectively, with 
anticipated actual expenditures; and (2) that is in the format of the 
budget that the Superintendent of DCPS and UDC submit to the Mayor of 
the District of Columbia for inclusion in the Mayor's budget submission 
to the Council of the District of Columbia pursuant to section 442 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, 
sec. 47-301).

    Sec. 122. (a) None of the funds contained in this Act may be made 
available to pay the fees of an attorney who represents a party who 
prevails in an action or any attorney who defends any action, including 
an administrative proceeding, brought against the District of Columbia 
Public Schools under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 1400 et seq.) if--
            (1) the hourly rate of compensation of the attorney exceeds 
        250 percent of the hourly rate of compensation under section 11-
        2604(a), District of Columbia Code; or
            (2) the maximum amount of compensation of the attorney 
        exceeds 250 percent of the maximum amount of compensation under 
        section 11-2604(b)(1), District of Columbia Code, except that 
        compensation and reimbursement in excess of such maximum may be 
        approved for extended or complex representation in accordance 
        with section 11-2604(c), District of Columbia Code; and
            (3) in no case may the compensation limits in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2) exceed $2,500.

    (b) Notwithstanding the preceding subsection, if the Mayor and the 
Superintendent of the District of Columbia Public Schools concur in a 
Memorandum of Understanding setting forth a new rate and amount of 
compensation, then such new rates shall apply in lieu of the rates set 
forth in the preceding subsection to both the attorney who represents 
the prevailing party and the attorney who defends the action.
    Sec. 123. <<NOTE: Abortion.>> None of the funds appropriated under 
this Act shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of the 
mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where 
the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

    Sec. 124. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 
(D.C. Law 9-114; D.C. Code, sec. 36-1401 et seq.) or to otherwise 
implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, cohabiting 
couples (whether homosexual, heterosexual, or lesbian), including but 
not limited to registration for the purpose of extending employment, 
health, or governmental

[[Page 114 STAT.2465]]

benefits to such couples on the same basis that such benefits are 
extended to legally married couples.
    Sec. 125. The District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority, acting on behalf of the District of 
Columbia Public Schools (DCPS) in formulating the DCPS budget, the Board 
of Trustees of the University of the District of Columbia, the Board of 
Library Trustees, and the Board of Governors of the University of the 
District of Columbia School of Law shall vote on and approve the 
respective annual or revised budgets for such entities before submission 
to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for inclusion in the Mayor's 
budget submission to the Council of the District of Columbia in 
accordance with section 442 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
(Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), or before submitting their 
respective budgets directly to the Council.
    Sec. 126. (a) Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in 
Ceiling.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        Act, the Mayor, in consultation with the Chief Financial 
        Officer, during a control year, as defined in section 305(4) of 
        the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
        Assistance Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-8; 109 Stat. 152), may 
        accept, obligate, and expend Federal, private, and other grants 
        received by the District government that are not reflected in 
        the amounts appropriated in this Act.
            (2) Requirement of chief financial officer report and 
        authority approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant 
        may be accepted, obligated, or expended pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) until--
                    (A) the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                Columbia submits to the Authority a report setting forth 
                detailed information regarding such grant; and
                    (B) the Authority has reviewed and approved the 
                acceptance, obligation, and expenditure of such grant in 
                accordance with review and approval procedures 
                consistent with the provisions of the District of 
                Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management 
                Assistance Act of 1995.
            (3) Prohibition on spending in anticipation of approval or 
        receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the 
        general fund or other funds of the District government in 
        anticipation of the approval or receipt of a grant under 
        paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection or in anticipation of the 
        approval or receipt of a Federal, private, or other grant not 
        subject to such paragraph.
            (4) Quarterly reports.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
        District of Columbia shall prepare a quarterly report setting 
        forth detailed information regarding all Federal, private, and 
        other grants subject to this 
        subsection. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Each such report shall be 
        submitted to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        the Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the quarter 
        covered by the report.

    (b) Report <<NOTE: Deadline.>> on Expenditures by Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority.--Not later than 20 
calendar days after the end of each fiscal quarter starting October 1, 
2000, the Authority shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate,

[[Page 114 STAT.2466]]

the Committee on Government Reform of the House, and the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate providing an itemized accounting of 
all non-appropriated funds obligated or expended by the Authority for 
the quarter. The report shall include information on the date, amount, 
purpose, and vendor name, and a description of the services or goods 
provided with respect to the expenditures of such funds.

    Sec. 127. If a department or agency of the government of the 
District of Columbia is under the administration of a court-appointed 
receiver or other court-appointed official during fiscal year 2001 or 
any succeeding fiscal year, the receiver or official shall prepare and 
submit to the Mayor, for inclusion in the annual budget of the District 
of Columbia for the year, annual estimates of the expenditures and 
appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the 
department or agency. All such estimates shall be forwarded by the Mayor 
to the Council, for its action pursuant to sections 446 and 603(c) of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, without revision but subject to 
the Mayor's recommendations. Notwithstanding any provision of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 774; Public Law 93-198), 
the Council may comment or make recommendations concerning such annual 
estimates but shall have no authority under such Act to revise such 
estimates.
    Sec. 128. (a) Restrictions on Use of Official Vehicles.--Except as 
otherwise provided in this section, none of the funds made available by 
this Act or by any other Act may be used to provide any officer or 
employee of the District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of the 
officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of this paragraph, 
the term ``official duties'' does not include travel between the 
officer's or employee's residence and workplace (except: (1) in the case 
of an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police Department who 
resides in the District of Columbia or is otherwise designated by the 
Chief of the Department; (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an 
officer or employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
is on call 24 hours a day; (3) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; 
and (4) the Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia).
    (b) Inventory <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of Vehicles.--The Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall submit, by November 15, 2000, 
an inventory, as of September 30, 2000, of all vehicles owned, leased or 
operated by the District of Columbia government. The inventory shall 
include, but not be limited to, the department to which the vehicle is 
assigned; the year and make of the vehicle; the acquisition date and 
cost; the general condition of the vehicle; annual operating and 
maintenance costs; current mileage; and whether the vehicle is allowed 
to be taken home by a District officer or employee and if so, the 
officer or employee's title and resident location.

    Sec. 129. (a) Source of Payment for Employees Detailed Within 
Government.--For purposes of determining the amount of funds expended by 
any entity within the District of Columbia government during fiscal year 
2001 and each succeeding fiscal year, any expenditures of the District 
government attributable to any officer or employee of the District 
government who provides services which are within the authority and 
jurisdiction of the entity (including any portion of the compensation 
paid to the officer

[[Page 114 STAT.2467]]

or employee attributable to the time spent in providing such services) 
shall be treated as expenditures made from the entity's budget, without 
regard to whether the officer or employee is assigned to the entity or 
otherwise treated as an officer or employee of the entity.
    (b) Modification of Reduction in Force Procedures.--Section 2408 of 
the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 
1978, effective March 3, 1979 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Code, sec. 1-625.7), 
is amended as follows:
            (1) Subsection (a) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
        2000'' and inserting ``September 30, 2000, and each subsequent 
        fiscal year''.
            (2) Subsection (b) is amended by striking ``Prior to 
        February 1, 2000'' and inserting ``Prior to February 1 of each 
        year''.
            (3) Subsection (i) is amended by striking ``March 1, 2000'' 
        and inserting ``March 1 of each year''.
            (4) Subsection (k) is amended by striking ``September 1, 
        2000'' and inserting ``September 1 of each year''.

    (c) No officer or employee of the District of Columbia government 
(including any independent agency of the District but excluding the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, the Metropolitan Police Department, and the Office of the 
Chief Technology Officer) may enter into an agreement in excess of 
$2,500 for the procurement of goods or services on behalf of any entity 
of the District government until the officer or employee has conducted 
an analysis of how the procurement of the goods and services involved 
under the applicable regulations and procedures of the District 
government would differ from the procurement of the goods and services 
involved under the Federal supply schedule and other applicable 
regulations and procedures of the General Services Administration, 
including an analysis of any differences in the costs to be incurred and 
the time required to obtain the goods or services.
    Sec. 130. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, not later than 120 days after the date that a District of Columbia 
Public Schools (DCPS) student is referred for evaluation or assessment--
            (1) the District of Columbia Board of Education, or its 
        successor, and DCPS shall assess or evaluate a student who may 
        have a disability and who may require special education 
        services; and
            (2) if a student is classified as having a disability, as 
        defined in section 101(a)(1) of the Individuals with 
        Disabilities Education Act (84 Stat. 175; 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) 
        or in section 7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 
        359; 29 U.S.C. 706(8)), the Board and DCPS shall place that 
        student in an appropriate program of special education services.

    Sec. 131. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may

[[Page 114 STAT.2468]]

        be authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided 
        using funds made available in this Act, it is the sense of the 
        Congress that entities receiving the assistance should, in 
        expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment 
        and products to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each agency of the Federal or District of Columbia 
        government shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
        notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
        Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 132. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
purposes of the annual independent audit of the District of Columbia 
government (including the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority) for fiscal year 2001 unless--
            (1) the audit is conducted by the Inspector General of the 
        District of Columbia pursuant to section 208(a)(4) of the 
        District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 1985 (D.C. 
        Code, sec. 1-1182.8(a)(4)); and
            (2) the audit includes a comparison of audited actual year-
        end results with the revenues submitted in the budget document 
        for such year and the appropriations enacted into law for such 
        year.

    Sec. 133. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used by the 
District of Columbia Corporation Counsel or any other officer or entity 
of the District government to provide assistance for any petition drive 
or civil action which seeks to require Congress to provide for voting 
representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 134. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
transfer or confine inmates classified above the medium security level, 
as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons classification instrument, 
to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center located in Youngstown, Ohio.
    Sec. 135. Subsection 3(e) of Public Law 104-21 (D.C. Code sec. 7-
134.2(e)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Inspector <<NOTE: Deadlines. Reports.>> General Audit.--Not 
later than February 1, 2001, and each February 1 thereafter, the 
Inspector General of the District of Columbia shall audit the financial 
statements of the District of Columbia Highway Trust Fund for the 
preceding fiscal year and shall submit to Congress a report on the 
results of such audit. Not later than May 31, 2001, and each May 31 
thereafter, the Inspector General shall examine the statements 
forecasting the conditions and operations of the Trust Fund for the next 
5 fiscal years commencing on the previous October 1

[[Page 114 STAT.2469]]

and shall submit to Congress a report on the results of such 
examination.''.

    Sec. 136. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> No later than November 1, 2000, or 
within 30 calendar days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
whichever occurs later, the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority a revised appropriated funds operating 
budget in the format of the budget that the District of Columbia 
government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Code, sec. 47-301), for all 
agencies of the District of Columbia government for such fiscal year 
that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that 
realigns all budgeted data for personal services and other-than-
personal-services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.

    Sec. 137. <<NOTE: Needle exchange.>> (a) None of the funds contained 
in this Act may be used for any program of distributing sterile needles 
or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.

    (b) Any individual or entity who receives any funds contained in 
this Act and who carries out any program described in subsection (a) 
shall account for all funds used for such program separately from any 
funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 138. (a) Restrictions on Leases.--Upon the expiration of the 
60-day period that begins on the date of the enactment of this Act, none 
of the funds contained in this Act may be used to make rental payments 
under a lease for the use of real property by the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) unless the 
lease and an abstract of the lease have been filed (by the District of 
Columbia or any other party to the lease) with the central office of the 
Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, in an indexed registry available 
for public inspection.
    (b) Additional Restrictions on Current Leases.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the expiration of the 60-day period 
        that begins on the date of the enactment of this Act, in the 
        case of a lease described in paragraph (3), none of the funds 
        contained in this Act may be used to make rental payments under 
        the lease unless the lease is included in periodic reports 
        submitted by the Mayor and Council of the District of Columbia 
        to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate describing for each such lease the 
        following information:
                    (A) The location of the property involved, the name 
                of the owners of record according to the land records of 
                the District of Columbia, the name of the lessors 
                according to the lease, the rate of payment under the 
                lease, the period of time covered by the lease, and the 
                conditions under which the lease may be terminated.
                    (B) The extent to which the property is or is not 
                occupied by the District of Columbia government as of 
                the end of the reporting period involved.
                    (C) If the property is not occupied and utilized by 
                the District government as of the end of the reporting 
                period involved, a plan for occupying and utilizing the 
                property (including construction or renovation work) or

[[Page 114 STAT.2470]]

                a status statement regarding any efforts by the District 
                to terminate or renegotiate the lease.
            (2) Timing of reports.--The reports described in paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted for each calendar quarter (beginning with 
        the quarter ending December 31, 2000) not later than 20 days 
        after the end of the quarter involved, plus an initial report 
        submitted not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, which shall provide information as of the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Leases described.--A lease described in this paragraph 
        is a lease in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act 
        for the use of real property by the District of Columbia 
        government (including any independent agency of the District) 
        which is not being occupied by the District government 
        (including any independent agency of the District) as of such 
        date or during the 60-day period which begins on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 139. (a) Management of Existing District Government Property.--
Upon the expiration of the 60-day period that begins on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, none of the funds contained in this Act may be 
used to enter into a lease (or to make rental payments under such a 
lease) for the use of real property by the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) or to 
purchase real property for the use of the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) or to 
manage real property for the use of the District of Columbia (including 
any independent agency of the District) unless the following conditions 
are met:
            (1) The Mayor and Council of the District of Columbia 
        certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate that existing real property available 
        to the District (whether leased or owned by the District 
        government) is not suitable for the purposes intended.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, there is 
        made available for sale or lease all real property of the 
        District of Columbia that the Mayor from time-to-time determines 
        is surplus to the needs of the District of Columbia, unless a 
        majority of the members of the Council override the Mayor's 
        determination during the 30-day period which begins on the date 
        the determination is published.
            (3) The Mayor and Council implement a program for the 
        periodic survey of all District property to determine if it is 
        surplus to the needs of the District.
            (4) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> The Mayor and Council 
        within 60 days of the date of the enactment of this Act have 
        filed with the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate, the Committee on Government Reform 
        of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report which provides a 
        comprehensive plan for the management of District of Columbia 
        real property assets, and are proceeding with the implementation 
        of the plan.

    (b) Termination of Provisions.--If the District of Columbia enacts 
legislation to reform the practices and procedures governing the 
entering into of leases for the use of real property by the District of 
Columbia government and the disposition of surplus

[[Page 114 STAT.2471]]

real property of the District government, the provisions of subsection 
(a) shall cease to be effective upon the effective date of the 
legislation.
    Sec. 140. <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> None of the funds contained 
in this Act may be used after the expiration of the 60-day period that 
begins on the date of the enactment of this Act to pay the salary of any 
chief financial officer of any office of the District of Columbia 
government (including the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility 
and Management Assistance Authority and any independent agency of the 
District) who has not filed a certification with the Mayor and the Chief 
Financial Officer of the District of Columbia that the officer 
understands the duties and restrictions applicable to the officer and 
the officer's agency as a result of this Act (and the amendments made by 
this Act), including any duty to prepare a report requested either in 
the Act or in any of the reports accompanying the Act and the deadline 
by which each report must be submitted, and the District's Chief 
Financial Officer shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives by the tenth day after the 
end of each quarter a summary list showing each report, the due date and 
the date submitted to the Committees.

    Sec. 141. The proposed budget of the government of the District of 
Columbia for fiscal year 2002 that is submitted by the District to 
Congress shall specify potential adjustments that might become necessary 
in the event that the operational improvements savings, including 
managed competition, and management reform savings achieved by the 
District during the year do not meet the level of management savings 
projected by the District under the proposed budget.
    Sec. 142. In submitting any document showing the budget for an 
office of the District of Columbia government (including an independent 
agency of the District) that contains a category of activities labeled 
as ``other'', ``miscellaneous'', or a similar general, nondescriptive 
term, the document shall include a description of the types of 
activities covered in the category and a detailed breakdown of the 
amount allocated for each such activity.
    Sec. 143. (a) None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise 
reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of 
any schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
802) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
    (b) The Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative 
of 1998, also known as Initiative 59, approved by the electors of the 
District of Columbia on November 3, 1998, shall not take effect.
    Sec. 144. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Mayor of 
the District of Columbia is hereby solely authorized to allocate the 
District's limitation amount of qualified zone academy bonds 
(established pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 1397E) among qualified zone academies 
within the District.
    Sec. 145. (a) Section 11232 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (sec. 
24-1232, D.C. Code) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f ) through (i) as 
        subsections (g) through ( j); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection:

[[Page 114 STAT.2472]]

    ``(f ) Treatment as Federal Employees.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Trustee and employees of the Trustee 
        who are not covered under subsection (e) shall be treated as 
        employees of the Federal Government solely for purposes of the 
        following provisions of title 5, United States Code:
                    ``(A) Chapter 83 (relating to retirement).
                    ``(B) Chapter 84 (relating to the Federal Employees' 
                Retirement System).
                    ``(C) Chapter 87 (relating to life insurance).
                    ``(D) Chapter 89 (relating to health insurance).
            ``(2) Effective dates of coverage.--The effective dates of 
        coverage of the provisions of paragraph (1) are as follows:
                    ``(A) In the case of the Trustee and employees of 
                the Office of the Trustee and the Office of Adult 
                Probation, August 5, 1997, or the date of appointment, 
                whichever is later.
                    ``(B) In the case of employees of the Office of 
                Parole, October 11, 1998, or the date of appointment, 
                whichever is later.
                    ``(C) In the case of employees of the Pretrial 
                Services Agency, January 3, 1999, or the date of 
                appointment, whichever is later.
            ``(3) Rate of contributions.--The Trustee shall make 
        contributions under the provisions referred to in paragraph (1) 
        at the same rates applicable to agencies of the Federal 
        Government.
            ``(4) Regulations.--The Office of Personnel Management shall 
        issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this 
        subsection.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect as if included in the enactment of title XI of the 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997.

    Sec. 146. It is the sense of the Congress that the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority 
should quickly complete the sale of the Franklin School property, a 
property which has been vacant for over 20 years.
    Sec. 147. Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent the 
Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from addressing the issue 
of the provision of contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, 
but it is the intent of Congress that any legislation enacted on such 
issue should include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions 
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 148. (a) Chapter 23 of title 11, District of Columbia, is 
hereby repealed.
    (b) The table of chapters for title 11, District of Columbia, is 
amended by striking the item relating to chapter 23.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendments made by this section 
shall take effect on the date on which legislation enacted by the 
Council of the District of Columbia to establish the Office of the Chief 
Medical Examiner in the executive branch of the government of the 
District of Columbia takes effect.

                   prompt payment of appointed counsel

    Sec. 149. (a) Assessment of Interest for Delayed Payments.--If the 
Superior Court of the District of Columbia or the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals does not make a payment

[[Page 114 STAT.2473]]

described in subsection (b) prior to the expiration of the 45-day period 
which begins on the date the Court receives a completed voucher for a 
claim for the payment, interest shall be assessed against the amount of 
the payment which would otherwise be made to take into account the 
period which begins on the day after the expiration of such 45-day 
period and which ends on the day the Court makes the payment.
    (b) Payments Described.--A payment described in this subsection is--
            (1) a payment authorized under section 11-2604 and section 
        11-2605, D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under 
        the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act);
            (2) a payment for counsel appointed in proceedings in the 
        Family Division of the Superior Court of the District of 
        Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code; or
            (3) a payment for counsel authorized under section 21-2060, 
        D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under the 
        District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and 
        Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986).

    (c) Standards for Submission of Completed Vouchers.--The chief 
judges of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and the 
District of Columbia Court of Appeals shall establish standards and 
criteria for determining whether vouchers submitted for claims for 
payments described in subsection (b) are complete, and shall publish and 
make such standards and criteria available to attorneys who practice 
before such Courts.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the assessment of interest against any claim (or 
portion of any claim) which is denied by the Court involved.
    (e) Effective <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to claims received by the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia or the District of Columbia Court of Appeals after 
the expiration of the 90-day period which begins on the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 150. <<NOTE: Effective date. Needle exchange.>> (a) Effective 
120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, it shall be 
unlawful for any person to distribute any needle or syringe for the 
hypodermic injection of any illegal drug in any area of the District of 
Columbia which is within 1,000 feet of a public or private elementary or 
secondary school (including a public charter school). It is stipulated 
that based on a survey by the Metropolitan Police Department of the 
District of Columbia that sites at 4th Street Northeast and Rhode Island 
Avenue Northeast, Southern Avenue Southeast and Central Avenue 
Southeast, 1st Street Southeast and M Street Southeast, 21st Street 
Northeast and H Street Northeast, Minnesota Avenue Northeast and Clay 
Place Northeast, and 15th Street Southeast and Ives Street Southeast are 
outside the 1,000-foot perimeter. Sites at North Capitol Street and New 
York Avenue Northeast, Division Avenue Northeast and Foote Street 
Northeast, Georgia Avenue Northwest and New Hampshire Avenue Northwest, 
and 15th Street Northeast and A Street Northeast are found to be within 
the 1,000-foot perimeter.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Public Housing Police of the District of 
Columbia Housing Authority shall prepare a monthly report on activity 
involving illegal drugs at or near any public housing site where a 
needle exchange program is conducted, and shall submit such reports to 
the Executive Director of the District of Columbia Housing Authority, 
who shall submit them to the Committees on

[[Page 114 STAT.2474]]

Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate. The Executive 
Director shall ascertain any concerns of the residents of any public 
housing site about any needle exchange program conducted on or near the 
site, and this information shall be included in these reports. The 
District of Columbia Government shall take appropriate action to require 
relocation of any such program if so recommended by the police or by a 
significant number of residents of such site.

   federal contribution for enforcement of law banning possession of 
                       tobacco products by minors

    Sec. 151. (a) Contribution.--There is hereby appropriated a Federal 
contribution of $100,000 to the Metropolitan Police Department of the 
District of Columbia, effective upon the enactment by the District of 
Columbia of a law which reads as follows:

``SECTION 1. BAN ON POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS BY MINORS.

    ``(a) In General.--It shall be unlawful for any individual under 18 
years of age to possess any cigarette or other tobacco product in the 
District of Columbia.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Possession in course of employment.--Subsection (a) 
        shall not apply with respect to an individual making a delivery 
        of cigarettes or tobacco products in pursuance of employment.
            ``(2) Participation in law enforcement operation.--
        Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to an individual 
        possessing products in the course of a valid, supervised law 
        enforcement operation.

    ``(c) Penalties.--Any individual who violates subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the following penalties:
            ``(1) For any violation, the individual may be required to 
        perform community service or attend a tobacco cessation program.
            ``(2) Upon the first violation, the individual shall be 
        subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $50.
            ``(3) Upon the second and each subsequent violation, the 
        individual shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed 
        $100.
            ``(4) Upon the third and each subsequent violation, the 
        individual may have his or her driving privileges in the 
        District of Columbia suspended for a period of 90 consecutive 
        days.''.

    (b) Use of Contribution.--The Metropolitan Police Department shall 
use the contribution made under subsection (a) to enforce the law 
referred to in such subsection.
    Sec. 152. Nothing in this Act bars the District of Columbia 
Corporation Counsel from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private 
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the District government 
regarding such lawsuits.
    Sec. 153. <<NOTE: 31 USC 6301 note.>> (a) Nothing in the Federal 
Grant and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977 (31 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) 
may be construed to prohibit the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency from negotiating and entering into cooperative 
agreements and grants authorized by law which affect real property of 
the Federal Government in the District of Columbia if the principal

[[Page 114 STAT.2475]]

purpose of the cooperative agreement or grant is to provide comparable 
benefits for Federal and non-Federal properties in the District of 
Columbia.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2001 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 154. (a) In General.--The District of Columbia Home Rule Act, 
as amended by section 159(a) of this Act, is further amended by 
inserting after section 450A the following new section:

               ``comprehensive financial management policy

    ``Sec. 450B. (a) Comprehensive Financial Management Policy.--The 
District of Columbia shall conduct its financial management in 
accordance with a comprehensive financial management policy.
    ``(b) Contents of Policy.--The comprehensive financial management 
policy shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            ``(1) A cash management policy.
            ``(2) A debt management policy.
            ``(3) A financial asset management policy.
            ``(4) An emergency reserve management policy in accordance 
        with section 450A(a).
            ``(5) A contingency reserve management policy in accordance 
        with section 450A(b).
            ``(6) A policy for determining real property tax exemptions 
        for the District of Columbia.

    ``(c) Annual <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Review.--The comprehensive 
financial management policy shall be reviewed at the end of each fiscal 
year by the Chief Financial Officer who shall--
            ``(1) not later than July 1 of each year, submit any 
        proposed changes in the policy to the Mayor and (in the case of 
        a fiscal year which is a control year, as defined in section 
        305(4) of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Act of 1995) the District of Columbia 
        Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority 
        (Authority) for review;
            ``(2) not later than August 1 of each year, after 
        consideration of any comments received under paragraph (1), 
        submit the changes to the Council of the District of Columbia 
        (Council) for approval; and
            ``(3) not later than September 1 of each year, notify the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Government Reform of the House 
        of Representatives, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of 
        the Senate of any changes enacted by the Council.

    ``(d) Procedure <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> for Development of First 
Comprehensive Financial Management Policy.--
            ``(1) Chief Financial Officer.--Not later than April 1, 
        2001, the Chief Financial Officer shall submit to the Mayor an 
        initial proposed comprehensive financial management policy for 
        the District of Columbia pursuant to this section.
            ``(2) Council.--Following review and comment by the Mayor, 
        not later than May 1, 2001, the Chief Financial Officer shall 
        submit the proposed financial management policy to the Council 
        for its prompt review and adoption.
            ``(3) Authority.--Upon adoption of the financial management 
        policy under paragraph (2), the Council shall immediately

[[Page 114 STAT.2476]]

        submit the policy to the Authority for a review of not to exceed 
        30 days.
            ``(4) Congress.--Following <<NOTE: Effective date.>> review 
        of the financial management policy by the Authority under 
        paragraph (3), the Authority shall submit the policy to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Government Reform of the House 
        of Representatives, and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of 
        the Senate for review, and the policy shall take effect 30 days 
        after the date the policy is submitted under this paragraph.''.

    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 450A the following new item:

``Sec. 450B. Comprehensive financial management policy.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on October 1, 2000.

            appointment and duties of chief financial officer

    Sec. 155. (a) Appointment and Dismissal.--Section 424(b) of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 47-317.2, D.C. Code) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``Upon confirmation by the Council, the name of the Chief 
        Financial Officer shall be submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the 
        Committee on Government Reform of the House of Representatives 
        for a 30-day period of review and comment before the appointment 
        takes effect.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting the following: ``upon dismissal by the Mayor and 
        approval of that dismissal by a \2/3\ vote of the Council. Upon 
        approval of the dismissal by the Council, notice of the 
        dismissal shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Government Reform of the House of Representatives for a 30-day 
        period of review and comment before the dismissal takes 
        effect.''.

    (b) Functions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 424(c) of such Act (sec. 47-317.3, 
        D.C. Code) is amended--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``During a Control 
                Year'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``During a control year, the Chief Financial 
                Officer'' and inserting ``The Chief Financial Officer'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Preparing'' and 
                inserting ``During a control year, preparing'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Assuring'' and 
                inserting ``During a control year, assuring'';
                    (E) in paragraph (5), by striking ``With the 
                approval'' and all that follows through ``the Council--
                '' and inserting ``Preparing and submitting to the Mayor 
                and the Council, with the approval of the Authority 
                during a control year--'';

[[Page 114 STAT.2477]]

                    (F) in paragraph (11), by striking ``or the 
                Authority'' and inserting ``(or by the Authority during 
                a control year)''; and
                    (G) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(18) Exercising responsibility for the administration and 
        supervision of the District of Columbia Treasurer (except that 
        the Chief Financial Officer may delegate any portion of such 
        responsibility as the Chief Financial Officer considers 
        appropriate and consistent with efficiency).
            ``(19) Administering all borrowing programs of the District 
        government for the issuance of long-term and short-term 
        indebtedness.
            ``(20) Administering the cash management program of the 
        District government, including the investment of surplus funds 
        in governmental and non-governmental interest-bearing securities 
        and accounts.
            ``(21) Administering the centralized District government 
        payroll and retirement systems.
            ``(22) Governing the accounting policies and systems 
        applicable to the District government.
            ``(23) Preparing appropriate annual, quarterly, and monthly 
        financial reports of the accounting and financial operations of 
        the District government.
            ``(24) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 120 days after the 
        end of each fiscal year, preparing the complete financial 
        statement and report on the activities of the District 
        government for such fiscal year, for the use of the Mayor under 
        section 448(a)(4).''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 424 of such Act (sec. 
        47-317.1 et seq., D.C. Code) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (d);
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``or 
                subsection (d)''; and
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f ) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively.

    Sec. 156. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of the District of 
Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 
2-139; D.C. Code 1-601.1 et seq.), or any other District of Columbia 
law, statute, regulation, the provisions of the District of Columbia 
Personnel Manual, or the provisions of any collective bargaining 
agreement, employees of the District of Columbia government will only 
receive compensation for overtime work in excess of 40 hours per week 
(or other applicable tour of duty) of work actually performed, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 
U.S.C. Sec. 201 et seq.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subsection (a) of this section shall 
be effective December 27, 1996. The Resolution and Order of the District 
of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Authority, dated December 27, 1996, is hereby ratified and approved and 
shall be given full force and effect.

    Sec. 157. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 503 of Public Law 
100-71 and as provided in subsection (b), the Court Services and 
Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (in this 
section referred to as the ``agency'') may implement and administer the 
Drug Free Workplace Program of the agency, dated July 28, 2000, for 
employment applicants of the agency.

[[Page 114 STAT.2478]]

    (b) Effective Period.--The waiver provided by subsection (a) shall--
            (1) take effect on enactment; and
            (2) terminate on the date the Department of Health and Human 
        Services approves the drug program of the agency pursuant to 
        section 503 of Public Law 100-71 or 12 months after the date 
        referred to in paragraph (1), whichever is later.

    Sec. 158. <<NOTE: Effective date. Reports.>> Commencing October 1, 
2000, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall submit to the Senate 
and House Committees on Appropriations, the Senate Governmental Affairs 
Committee, and the House Government Reform Committee quarterly reports 
addressing the following issues: (1) crime, including the homicide rate, 
implementation of community policing, the number of police officers on 
local beats, and the closing down of open-air drug markets; (2) access 
to drug abuse treatment, including the number of treatment slots, the 
number of people served, the number of people on waiting lists, and the 
effectiveness of treatment programs; (3) management of parolees and pre-
trial violent offenders, including the number of halfway house escapes 
and steps taken to improve monitoring and supervision of halfway house 
residents to reduce the number of escapes to be provided in consultation 
with the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency; (4) education, 
including access to special education services and student achievement 
to be provided in consultation with the District of Columbia Public 
Schools; (5) improvement in basic District services, including rat 
control and abatement; (6) application for and management of Federal 
grants, including the number and type of grants for which the District 
was eligible but failed to apply and the number and type of grants 
awarded to the District but which the District failed to spend the 
amounts received; and (7) indicators of child well-being.

                              reserve funds

    Sec. 159. (a) Establishment of Reserve Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The District of Columbia Home Rule Act is 
        amended by inserting after section 450 the following new 
        section:

                             ``reserve funds

    ``Sec. 450A. (a) Emergency Reserve Fund.--
            ``(1) In <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> general.--There is established 
        an emergency cash reserve fund (in this subsection referred to 
        as the `emergency reserve fund') as an interest-bearing account 
        (separate from other accounts in the General Fund) into which 
        the Mayor shall deposit in cash not later than February 15 of 
        each fiscal year (or not later than October 1, 2000, in the case 
        of fiscal year 2001) such amount as may be required to maintain 
        a balance in the fund of at least 4 percent of the total budget 
        appropriated for operating expenditures for such fiscal year 
        which is derived from local funds (or, in the case of fiscal 
        years prior to fiscal year 2004, such amount as may be required 
        to maintain a balance in the fund of at least the minimum 
        emergency reserve balance for such fiscal year, as determined 
        under paragraph (2)).
            ``(2) Determination of minimum emergency reserve 
        balance.--

[[Page 114 STAT.2479]]

                    ``(A) In general.--The `minimum emergency reserve 
                balance' with respect to a fiscal year is the amount 
                equal to the applicable percentage of the total budget 
                appropriated for operating expenditures for such fiscal 
                year which is derived from local funds.
                    ``(B) Applicable percentage defined.--In 
                subparagraph (A), the `applicable percentage' with 
                respect to a fiscal year means the following:
                          ``(i) For fiscal year 2001, 1 percent.
                          ``(ii) For fiscal year 2002, 2 percent.
                          ``(iii) For fiscal year 2003, 3 percent.
            ``(3) Interest.--Interest earned on the emergency reserve 
        fund shall remain in the account and shall only be withdrawn in 
        accordance with paragraph (4).
            ``(4) Criteria for use of amounts in emergency reserve 
        fund.--The Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the 
        Mayor, shall develop a policy to govern the emergency reserve 
        fund which shall include (but which may not be limited to) the 
        following requirements:
                    ``(A) The emergency reserve fund may be used to 
                provide for unanticipated and nonrecurring extraordinary 
                needs of an emergency nature, including a natural 
                disaster or calamity as defined by section 102 of the 
                Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                Assistance Act (Public Law 100-707) or unexpected 
                obligations by Federal law.
                    ``(B) The emergency reserve fund may also be used in 
                the event of a State of Emergency as declared by the 
                Mayor pursuant to section 5 of the District of Columbia 
                Public Emergency Act of 1980 (sec. 6-1504, D.C. Code).
                    ``(C) The emergency reserve fund may not be used to 
                fund--
                          ``(i) any department, agency, or office of the 
                      Government of the District of Columbia which is 
                      administered by a receiver or other official 
                      appointed by a court;
                          ``(ii) shortfalls in any projected reductions 
                      which are included in the budget proposed by the 
                      District of Columbia for the fiscal year; or
                          ``(iii) settlements and judgments made by or 
                      against the Government of the District of 
                      Columbia.
            ``(5) Allocation of emergency cash reserve funds.--Funds may 
        be allocated from the emergency reserve fund only after--
                    ``(A) an analysis has been prepared by the Chief 
                Financial Officer of the availability of other sources 
                of funding to carry out the purposes of the allocation 
                and the impact of such allocation on the balance and 
                integrity of the emergency reserve fund; and
                    ``(B) with respect to fiscal years beginning with 
                fiscal year 2005, the contingency reserve fund 
                established by subsection (b) has been projected by the 
                Chief Financial Officer to be exhausted at the time of 
                the allocation.
            ``(6) Notice.--The Mayor, the Council, and (in the case of a 
        fiscal year which is a control year, as defined in section 
        305(4) of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Act of 1995) the District of Columbia

[[Page 114 STAT.2480]]

        Financial <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Responsibility and Management 
        Assistance Authority shall notify the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives in 
        writing not more than 30 days after the expenditure of funds 
        from the emergency reserve fund.
            ``(7) Replenishment.--The District of Columbia shall 
        appropriate sufficient funds each fiscal year in the budget 
        process to replenish any amounts allocated from the emergency 
        reserve fund during the preceding fiscal year by the following 
        fiscal year. Once the emergency reserve equals 4 percent of 
        total budget appropriated from local funds for operating 
        expenditures for the fiscal year, the District of Columbia shall 
        appropriate sufficient funds each fiscal year in the budget 
        process to replenish any amounts allocated from the emergency 
        reserve fund during the preceding year to maintain a balance of 
        at least 4 percent of total funds appropriated from local funds 
        for operating expenditures by the following fiscal year.

    ``(b) Contingency Reserve Fund.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established a contingency cash 
        reserve fund (in this subsection referred to as the `contingency 
        reserve fund') as an interest-bearing account (separate from 
        other accounts in the General Fund) into which the Mayor shall 
        deposit in cash not later than October 1 of each fiscal year 
        (beginning with fiscal year 2005) such amount as may be required 
        to maintain a balance in the fund of at least 3 percent of the 
        total budget appropriated for operating expenditures for such 
        fiscal year which is derived from local funds (or, in the case 
        of fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2007, such amount as may be 
        required to maintain a balance in the fund of at least the 
        minimum contingency reserve balance for such fiscal year, as 
        determined under paragraph (2)).
            ``(2) Determination of minimum contingency reserve 
        balance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The `minimum contingency reserve 
                balance' with respect to a fiscal year is the amount 
                equal to the applicable percentage of the total budget 
                appropriated from local funds for operating expenditures 
                for such fiscal year which is derived from local funds.
                    ``(B) Applicable percentage defined.--In 
                subparagraph (A), the `applicable percentage' with 
                respect to a fiscal year means the following:
                          ``(i) For fiscal year 2005, 1 percent.
                          ``(ii) For fiscal year 2006, 2 percent.
            ``(3) Interest.--Interest earned on the contingency reserve 
        fund shall remain in the account and may only be withdrawn in 
        accordance with paragraph (4).
            ``(4) Criteria for use of amounts in contingency reserve 
        fund.--The Chief Financial Officer, in consultation with the 
        Mayor, shall develop a policy governing the use of the 
        contingency reserve fund which shall include (but which may not 
        be limited to) the following requirements:
                    ``(A) The contingency reserve fund may only be used 
                to provide for nonrecurring or unforeseen needs that 
                arise during the fiscal year, including expenses 
                associated with unforeseen weather or other natural 
                disasters, unexpected obligations created by Federal law 
                or new public safety or health needs or requirements 
                that have been identified

[[Page 114 STAT.2481]]

                after the budget process has occurred, or opportunities 
                to achieve cost savings.
                    ``(B) The contingency reserve fund may be used, if 
                needed, to cover revenue shortfalls experienced by the 
                District government for 3 consecutive months (based on a 
                2 month rolling average) that are 5 percent or more 
                below the budget forecast.
                    ``(C) The contingency reserve fund may not be used 
                to fund any shortfalls in any projected reductions which 
                are included in the budget proposed by the District of 
                Columbia for the fiscal year.
            ``(5) Allocation of contingency cash reserve.--Funds may be 
        allocated from the contingency reserve fund only after an 
        analysis has been prepared by the Chief Financial Officer of the 
        availability of other sources of funding to carry out the 
        purposes of the allocation and the impact of such allocation on 
        the balance and integrity of the contingency reserve fund.
            ``(6) Replenishment.--The District of Columbia shall 
        appropriate sufficient funds each fiscal year in the budget 
        process to replenish any amounts allocated from the contingency 
        reserve fund during the preceding fiscal year by the following 
        fiscal year. Once the contingency reserve equals 3 percent of 
        total funds appropriated from local funds for operating 
        expenditures, the District of Columbia shall appropriate 
        sufficient funds each fiscal year in the budget process to 
        replenish any amounts allocated from the contingency reserve 
        fund during the preceding year to maintain a balance of at least 
        3 percent of total funds appropriated from local funds for 
        operating expenditures by the following fiscal year.

    ``(c) Quarterly Reports.--The Chief Financial Officer shall submit a 
quarterly report to the Mayor, the Council, the District of Columbia 
Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (in the 
case of a fiscal year which is a control year, as defined in section 
305(4) of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Act of 1995), and the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and House of Representatives that includes a monthly 
statement on the balance and activities of the contingency and emergency 
reserve funds.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for the 
        District of Columbia Home Rule Act is amended by inserting after 
        the item relating to section 450 the following new item:

``Sec. 450A. Reserve funds.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Current reserve fund.--Section 202( j) of the District 
        of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
        Act of 1995 (sec. 47-392.2( j), D.C. Code) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Beginning with 
                fiscal year 2000, the plan or budget submitted pursuant 
                to this Act'' and inserting ``For each of the fiscal 
                years 2000 through 2004, the budget of the District 
                government for the fiscal year''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(4) Replenishment.--Any amount of the reserve funds which 
        is expended in one fiscal year shall be replenished in the 
        reserve funds from the following fiscal year appropriations to 
        maintain the $150,000,000 balance.''.

[[Page 114 STAT.2482]]

            (2) Positive fund balance.--Section 202(k) of such Act (sec. 
        47-392.2(k), D.C. Code) is repealed.

    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on October 1, 2000.

    treatment of revenue bonds secured by tobacco settlement payments

    Sec. 160. (a) Permitting Council to Delegate Authority To Issue 
Bonds.--
            (1) In general.--Section 490 of the District of Columbia 
        Home Rule Act (sec. 47-334, D.C. Code) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (i) through (m) as 
                subsections ( j) through (n), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (h) the following 
                new subsection:

    ``(i)(1) The Council may delegate to the District of Columbia 
Tobacco Settlement Financing Corporation (hereafter in this subsection 
referred to as the ``Corporation'') established pursuant to the Tobacco 
Settlement Financing Act of 2000 the authority of the Council under 
subsection (a) to issue revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations 
which are used to borrow money to finance or assist in the financing or 
refinancing of capital projects and other undertakings of the District 
of Columbia and which are payable solely from and secured by payments 
under the Master Tobacco Settlement Agreement. The Corporation may 
exercise authority delegated to it by the Council as described in the 
first sentence of this paragraph (whether such delegation is made before 
or after the date of the enactment of this subsection) only in 
accordance with this subsection and the provisions of the Tobacco 
Settlement Financing Act of 2000.
    ``(2) Revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by the 
Corporation under a delegation of authority described in paragraph (1) 
shall be issued by resolution of the Corporation, and any such 
resolution shall not be considered to be an act of the Council.
    ``(3) The fourth sentence of section 446 shall not apply to--
            ``(A) any amount (including the amount of any accrued 
        interest or premium) obligated or expended from the proceeds of 
        the sale of any revenue bond, note, or other obligation issued 
        pursuant to this subsection;
            ``(B) any amount obligated or expended for the payment of 
        the principal of, interest on, or any premium for any revenue 
        bond, note, or other obligation issued pursuant to this 
        subsection;
            ``(C) any amount obligated or expended to secure any revenue 
        bond, note, or other obligation issued pursuant to this 
        subsection; or
            ``(D) any amount obligated or expended for repair, 
        maintenance, and capital improvements to facilities financed 
        pursuant to this subsection.

    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `Master Tobacco Settlement 
Agreement' means the settlement agreement (and related documents), as 
may be amended from time to time, entered into on November 23, 1998, by 
the District of Columbia and leading United States tobacco product 
manufacturers.''.

[[Page 114 STAT.2483]]

            (2) Conforming amendment.--The fourth sentence of section 
        446 of such Act (sec. 47-304, D.C. Code) is amended by striking 
        ``and (h)(3)'' and inserting ``(h)(3), and (i)(3)''.

    (b) Waiver of Congressional Review Period for Tobacco Settlement 
Financing Act.--Notwithstanding section 602(c)(1) of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1-233(c)(1), D.C. Code), the Tobacco 
Settlement Financing Act of 2000 (title XXXVII of D.C. Act 13-375, as 
amended by section 8(e) of D.C. Act 13-387) shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of such Act or the date of the enactment of this 
Act, whichever is later.
    Sec. 161. Section 603(e) of the Student Loan Marketing Association 
Reorganization Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-
293), <<NOTE: 20 USC 1155.>> as amended by section 153 of the District 
of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2000, is amended--
            (1) by amending the second sentence of paragraph (2)(B) to 
        read as follows: ``Of such amounts and proceeds, $5,000,000 
        shall be set aside for a credit enhancement fund for public 
        charter schools in the District of Columbia, to be administered 
        and disbursed in accordance with paragraph (3).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Credit enhancement fund for public charter schools.--
                    ``(A) Distribution of amounts.--Of the amounts in 
                the credit enhancement fund established under paragraph 
                (2)(B)--
                          ``(i) 50 percent shall be used to make grants 
                      under subparagraph (B); and
                          ``(ii) 50 percent shall be used to make grants 
                      under subparagraph (C).
                    ``(B) Grants to eligible nonprofit corporations.--
                          ``(i) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Using 
                      the amounts described in subparagraph (A)(i), not 
                      later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
                      of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
                      2001, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall 
                      make and disburse grants to eligible nonprofit 
                      corporations to carry out the purposes described 
                      in subparagraph (E).
                          ``(ii) Administration.--The Mayor shall 
                      administer the program of grants under this 
                      subparagraph, except that if the committee 
                      described in subparagraph (C)(iii) is in operation 
                      and is fully functional prior to the date the 
                      Mayor makes the grants, the Mayor may delegate the 
                      administration of the program to the committee.
                    ``(C) Other grants.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Using the amounts described 
                      in subparagraph (A)(ii), the Mayor of the District 
                      of Columbia shall make grants to entities to carry 
                      out the purposes described in subparagraph (E).
                          ``(ii) Participation of schools.--A public 
                      charter school in the District of Columbia may 
                      receive a grant under this subparagraph to carry 
                      out the purposes described in subparagraph (E) in 
                      the same manner as other entities receiving grants 
                      to carry out such activities.
                          ``(iii) Administration through committee.--The 
                      Mayor shall carry out this subparagraph through 
                      the

[[Page 114 STAT.2484]]

                      committee appointed by the Mayor under the second 
                      sentence of paragraph (2)(B) (as in effect prior 
                      to the enactment of the District of Columbia 
                      Appropriations Act, 2001). The committee may enter 
                      into an agreement with a third party to carry out 
                      its responsibilities under this subparagraph.
                          ``(iv) Cap on administrative costs.--Not more 
                      than 10 percent of the funds available for grants 
                      under this subparagraph may be used to cover the 
                      administrative costs of making grants under this 
                      subparagraph.
                    ``(D) Special rule regarding eligibility of 
                nonprofit corporations.--In order to be eligible to 
                receive a grant under this paragraph, a nonprofit 
                corporation must provide appropriate certification to 
                the Mayor or to the committee described in subparagraph 
                (C)(iii) (as the case may be) that it is duly authorized 
                by two or more public charter schools in the District of 
                Columbia to act on their behalf in obtaining financing 
                (or in assisting them in obtaining financing) to cover 
                the costs of activities described in subparagraph 
                (E)(i).
                    ``(E) Purposes of grants.--
                          ``(i) In general.--The recipient of a grant 
                      under this paragraph shall use the funds provided 
                      under the grant to carry out activities to assist 
                      public charter schools in the District of Columbia 
                      in--
                                    ``(I) obtaining financing to acquire 
                                interests in real property (including by 
                                purchase, lease, or donation), including 
                                financing to cover planning, 
                                development, and other incidental costs;
                                    ``(II) obtaining financing for 
                                construction of facilities or the 
                                renovation, repair, or alteration of 
                                existing property or facilities 
                                (including the purchase or replacement 
                                of fixtures and equipment), including 
                                financing to cover planning, 
                                development, and other incidental costs; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) enhancing the availability 
                                of loans (including mortgages) and 
                                bonds.
                          ``(ii) No direct funding for schools.--Funds 
                      provided under a grant under this subparagraph may 
                      not be used by a recipient to make direct loans or 
                      grants to public charter schools.''.

    Sec. 162. <<NOTE: Contracts.>> (a) Exclusive Authority of Mayor.--
Notwithstanding section 451 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act or 
any other provision of District of Columbia or Federal law to the 
contrary, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall have the exclusive 
authority to approve and execute leases of the Washington Marina and the 
Washington municipal fish wharf with the existing lessees thereof for an 
initial term of 30 years, together with such other terms and conditions 
(including renewal options) as the Mayor deems appropriate.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Washington Marina'' means the portions of 
        Federal property in the Southwest quadrant of the District of 
        Columbia within Lot 848 in Square 473, the unassessed Federal 
        real property adjacent to Lot 848 in Square 473, and riparian 
        rights appurtenant thereto; and

[[Page 114 STAT.2485]]

            (2) the term ``Washington municipal fish wharf'' means the 
        water frontage on the Potomac River lying south of Water Street 
        between 11th and 12th Streets, including the buildings and 
        wharves thereon.

    Sec. 163. Section 11201(g)(4)(A) of the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (D.C. Code, 
sec. 24-1201(g)(4)(A)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (vi) through (ix) as clauses 
        (vii) through (x), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after clause (v) the following:
                          ``(vi) immediately upon completing the 
                      remediation required under clause (ii) (but in no 
                      event later than June 1, 2003), transfer any 
                      property located south of Silverbrooke Road which 
                      is identified for use for educational purposes in 
                      the Fairfax County reuse plan to the County, 
                      without consideration, subject to the condition 
                      that the County use the property only for 
                      educational purposes;''.

    Sec. 164. (a) Section 208(a) of the District of Columbia Procurement 
Practices Act of 1985 (sec. 1-1182.8(a), D.C. Code) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``the same auditor)'' 
        and inserting ``the same auditor, except as may be provided in 
        paragraph (5)); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

    ``(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4)(A), an auditor who is a 
subcontractor to the auditor who audited the financial statement and 
report described in paragraph (3)(H) for a fiscal year may audit the 
financial statement and report for any succeeding fiscal year (as either 
the prime auditor or as a subcontractor to another auditor) if--
            ``(A) such subcontractor is not a signatory to the statement 
        and report for the previous fiscal year;
            ``(B) the prime auditor reviewed and approved the work of 
        the subcontractor on the statement and report for the previous 
        fiscal year; and
            ``(C) the subcontractor is not an employee of the prime 
        contractor or of an entity owned, managed, or controlled by the 
        prime contractor.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall apply with respect to financial statements and reports for 
activities of the District of Columbia Government for fiscal years 
beginning with fiscal year 2001.

    Sec. 165. Section 11201(g) of the National Capital Revitalization 
and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (D.C. Code, sec. 24-1201(g)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Meadowood <<NOTE: Virginia. Deadline.>> farm land 
        exchange.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If, not later than January 15, 
                2001, Fairfax County, Virginia, agrees to convey fee 
                simple title to the property on Mason Neck in excess of 
                800 acres depicted on the map dated June 2000, on file 
                in the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                Management, Eastern States (hereafter in this paragraph 
                referred to as `Meadowood Farm') to the Secretary of the 
                Interior, then the Administrator of General Services 
                shall agree to convey to Fairfax County, Virginia, fee 
                simple title to the property

[[Page 114 STAT.2486]]

                located at the Lorton Correctional Complex north of 
                Silverbrook Road, and consisting of more than 200 acres 
                identified in the Fairfax County Reuse Plan, dated July 
                26, 1999, as land available for residential development 
                in Land Units 1 and 2 (hereafter in this paragraph 
                referred to as the `Laurel Hill Residential Land'), the 
                actual exchange to occur no later than December 31, 
                2001.
                    ``(B) Terms and conditions.--(i) When Fairfax County 
                transfers fee simple title to Meadowood Farm to the 
                Secretary of the Interior, the Administrator of General 
                Services shall simultaneously transfer to the County the 
                Laurel Hill Residential Land.
                    ``(ii) The transfer of property to Fairfax County, 
                Virginia, under clause (i) shall be subject to such 
                terms and conditions that the Administrator of General 
                Services considers to be appropriate to protect the 
                interests of the United States.
                    ``(iii) Any proceeds derived from the sale of the 
                Laurel Hill Residential Land by Fairfax County that 
                exceed the County's cost of acquiring, financing (which 
                shall be deemed a County cost from the time of financing 
                of the Meadowood Farm acquisition to the receipt of 
                proceeds of the sale or sales of the Laurel Hill 
                Residential Land until such time as the proceeds of such 
                sale or sales exceed the acquisition and financing costs 
                of Meadowood Farm to the County), preparing, and 
                conveying Meadowood Farm and costs incurred for 
                improving, preparing, and conveying the Laurel Hill 
                Residential Land shall be remitted to the United States 
                and deposited into the special fund established pursuant 
                to paragraph (4)(A)(viii).
                    ``(C) Management of property.--The property 
                transferred to the Secretary of the Interior under this 
                section shall be managed by the Bureau of Land 
                Management for public use and recreation purposes.''.

    Sec. 166. Section 158(b) of the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-113; 113 Stat. 1527) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b) Source of Funds; Transfer.--An amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
from the National Highway System funds apportioned to the District of 
Columbia under section 104 of title 23, United States Code, may be used 
for purposes of carrying out the project under subsection (a).''.
    Sec. 167. The explanatory language contained in the Joint 
Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference for District of 
Columbia Appropriations contained in the Conference Report to accompany 
H.R. 4942 of the 106th Congress shall be considered to constitute a 
joint explanatory statement of a committee of conference for the 
provisions in this Act. References in this joint statement to the 
conference agreement mean the provisions in this Act, references to the 
House bill mean the House passed version of H.R. 4942, and references to 
the Senate bill mean the Senate passed amendment to H.R. 4942.

[[Page 114 STAT.2487]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2001''.

    Approved November 22, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5633:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Nov. 14, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>