[106th Congress Public Law 74]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ074.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1047]]

Public Law 106-74
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
  Housing and Urban Development, and for sundry independent agencies, 
   boards, commissions, corporations, and offices for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 20, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 2684]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States <<NOTE: Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000.>>  of 
America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
for sundry independent agencies, boards, commissions, corporations, and 
offices for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of veterans 
and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized by law (38 
U.S.C. 107, chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61); pension benefits 
to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. chapters 15, 
51, 53, 55, and 61; 92 Stat. 2508); and burial benefits, emergency and 
other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-service credits and 
certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial life insurance 
policies guaranteed under the provisions of Article IV of the Soldiers' 
and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended, and for other 
benefits as authorized by law (38 U.S.C. 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61; 50 U.S.C. App. 540-548; 43 Stat. 122, 
123; 45 Stat. 735; 76 Stat. 1198), $21,568,364,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $17,932,000 of the amount 
appropriated shall be reimbursed to ``General operating expenses'' and 
``Medical care'' for necessary expenses in implementing those provisions 
authorized in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and in the 
Veterans' Benefits Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. chapters 51, 53, and 55), the 
funding source for which is specifically provided as the ``Compensation 
and pensions'' appropriation: Provided further, That such sums as may be 
earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to 
``Medical facilities revolving fund'' to augment the funding of 
individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided to 
pensioners as authorized.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1048]]

                          readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or on 
behalf of veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapters 21, 30, 31, 34, 
35, 36, 39, 51, 53, 55, and 61, $1,469,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds shall be available to pay any court 
order, court award or any compromise settlement arising from litigation 
involving the vocational training program authorized by section 18 of 
Public Law 98-77, as amended.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 19; 
70 Stat. 887; 72 Stat. 487, $28,670,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          veterans housing benefit program fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
37, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 2000, within the resources available, not to exceed 
$300,000 in gross obligations for direct loans are authorized for 
specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $156,958,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

                   education loan fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
3698, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $3,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $214,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

             vocational rehabilitation loans program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $57,000, as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 
chapter 31, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $2,531,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1049]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $415,000, which may be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, as amended, $520,000, 
which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

  guaranteed transitional housing loans for homeless veterans program 
                                 account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost, as defined in section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement 
Act of 1990, including the cost of modifying loans, of guaranteed loans 
as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 subchapter VI, $48,250,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than five loans 
may be guaranteed under this program prior to November 11, 2001: 
Provided further, That no more than 15 loans may be guaranteed under 
this program: Provided further, That the total principal amount of loans 
guaranteed under this program may not exceed $100,000,000: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $750,000 of the amounts appropriated by this 
Act for ``General operating expenses'' and ``Medical care'' may be 
expended for the administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter VI.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                              medical care

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities; for furnishing, as 
authorized by law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to 
beneficiaries of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including care and 
treatment in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the department; 
and furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and equipment; 
funeral, burial, and other expenses incidental thereto for beneficiaries 
receiving care in the department; administrative expenses in support of 
planning, design, project management, real property acquisition and 
disposition, construction and renovation of any facility under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the department; oversight, engineering 
and architectural activities not charged to project cost; repairing, 
altering, improving or providing facilities in the several hospitals and 
homes under the jurisdiction of the department, not otherwise provided 
for, either by contract or by the hire of temporary employees and 
purchase of materials; uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; aid to State homes as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1741; 
administrative and legal expenses of the department for collecting and 
recovering amounts owed the department as authorized under 38

[[Page 113 STAT. 1050]]

U.S.C. chapter 17, and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 
2651 et seq.; and not to exceed $8,000,000 to fund cost comparison 
studies as referred to in 38 U.S.C. 8110(a)(5), $19,006,000,000, plus 
reimbursements: Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $900,000,000 is for the equipment and land and structures 
object classifications only, which amount shall not become available for 
obligation until August 1, 2000, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, not to exceed $900,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, not to exceed $27,907,000 may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``General operating expenses'': 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  the department shall 
conduct by contract a program of recovery audits for the fee basis and 
other medical services contracts with respect to payments for hospital 
care; and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302(b), amounts collected, by 
setoff or otherwise, as the result of such audits shall be available, 
without fiscal year limitation, for the purposes for which funds are 
appropriated under this heading and the purposes of paying a contractor 
a percent of the amount collected as a result of an audit carried out by 
the contractor: Provided further, That all amounts so collected under 
the preceding proviso with respect to a designated health care region 
(as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1729A(d)(2)) shall be allocated, 
net of payments to the contractor, to that region.

    In addition, in conformance with Public Law 105-33 establishing the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Care Collections Fund, such sums 
as may be deposited to such Fund pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1729A may be 
transferred to this account, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of this account.

                     medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 
73, to remain available until September 30, 2001, $321,000,000, plus 
reimbursements.

       medical administration and miscellaneous operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities, $59,703,000 plus reimbursements: Provided, 
That project technical and consulting services offered by the Facilities 
Management Service Delivery Office, including technical consulting 
services, project management, real property administration (including 
leases, site acquisition and disposal activities directly supporting 
projects), shall be provided to Department of Veterans Affairs 
components only on a reimbursable basis, and such amounts will remain 
available until September 30, 2000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1051]]

                    general post fund, national homes

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $7,000, as authorized by Public Law 
102-54, section 8, which shall be transferred from the ``General post 
fund'': Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans not to exceed $70,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $54,000, which shall be transferred from the ``General 
post fund'', as authorized by Public Law 102-54, section 8.

                       Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including uniforms or allowances 
therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
reimbursement of the General Services Administration for security guard 
services, and the Department of Defense for the cost of overseas 
employee mail, $912,594,000: Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, not to exceed $45,600,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided further, That funds under this heading 
shall be available to administer the Service Members Occupational 
Conversion and Training Act.

                    national cemetery administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of the 
National Cemetery Administration, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of two passenger motor vehicles for use in cemeterial 
operations; and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $97,256,000: Provided, 
That of the amount made available under this heading, not to exceed 
$117,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for 
``General operating expenses''.

                       office of inspector general

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $43,200,000: 
Provided, That of the amount made available under this heading, not to 
exceed $30,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses''.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122

[[Page 113 STAT. 1052]]

of title 38, United States Code, including planning, architectural and 
engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs 
associated with equipment guarantees provided under the project, 
services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system 
construction costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a 
project is $4,000,000 or more or where funds for a project were made 
available in a previous major project appropriation, $65,140,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That except for advance 
planning of projects (including market-based assessments of health care 
needs which may or may not lead to capital investments) funded through 
the advance planning fund and the design of projects funded through the 
design fund, none of these funds shall be used for any project which has 
not been considered and approved by the Congress in the budgetary 
process: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts. Deadlines.>>  funds 
provided in this appropriation for fiscal year 2000, for each approved 
project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a construction 
documents contract by September 30, 2000; and (2) by the awarding of a 
construction contract by September 30, 2001: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Secretary shall promptly report in writing 
to the Committees on Appropriations any approved major construction 
project in which obligations are not incurred within the time 
limitations established above: Provided further, That no funds from any 
other account except the ``Parking revolving fund'', may be obligated 
for constructing, altering, extending, or improving a project which was 
approved in the budget process and funded in this account until 1 year 
after substantial completion and beneficial occupancy by the Department 
of Veterans Affairs of the project or any part thereof with respect to 
that part only.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, including planning, architectural and engineering 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated with 
equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of claims 
analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction costs, 
and site acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 
316, 2404, 2406, 8102, 8103, 8106, 8108, 8109, 8110, and 8122 of title 
38, United States Code, where the estimated cost of a project is less 
than $4,000,000, $160,000,000, to remain available until expended, along 
with unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where the 
estimated cost is less than $4,000,000: Provided, That funds in this 
account shall be available for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical 
facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the department which 
are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster 
or catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

                         parking revolving fund

    For the parking revolving fund as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8109, 
income from fees collected, to remain available until expended,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1053]]

which shall be available for all authorized expenses except operations 
and maintenance costs, which will be funded from ``Medical care''.

        grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify or alter existing 
hospital, nursing home and domiciliary facilities in State homes, for 
furnishing care to veterans as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 8131-8137, 
$90,000,000, to remain available until expended.

        grants for the construction of state veterans cemeteries

    For grants to aid States in establishing, expanding, or improving 
State veteran cemeteries as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 2408, $25,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. Any appropriation for fiscal year 2000 for ``Compensation 
and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and 
indemnities'' may be transferred to any other of the mentioned 
appropriations.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2000 for salaries and expenses shall be 
available for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 103. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs (except the appropriations for ``Construction, major 
projects'', ``Construction, minor projects'', and the ``Parking 
revolving fund'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for or 
toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 104. No appropriations in this Act for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs shall be available for hospitalization or examination 
of any persons (except beneficiaries entitled under the laws bestowing 
such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such treatment under 5 
U.S.C. 7901-7904 or 42 U.S.C. 5141-5204), unless reimbursement of cost 
is made to the ``Medical care'' account at such rates as may be fixed by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2000 for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
``Readjustment benefits'', and ``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' 
shall be available for payment of prior year accrued obligations 
required to be recorded by law against the corresponding prior year 
accounts within the last quarter of fiscal year 1999.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations accounts available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2000 shall be available to pay prior 
year obligations of corresponding prior year appropriations accounts 
resulting from title X of the Competitive Equality Banking Act, Public 
Law 100-86, except that if such obligations are from trust fund accounts 
they shall be payable from ``Compensation and pensions''.
    Sec. 107. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal 
year 2000, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the National 
Service Life Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1920), the Veterans' Special Life 
Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1923), and the United States Government Life 
Insurance Fund (38 U.S.C. 1955), reimburse

[[Page 113 STAT. 1054]]

the ``General operating expenses'' account for the cost of 
administration of the insurance programs financed through those 
accounts: Provided, That reimbursement shall be made only from the 
surplus earnings accumulated in an insurance program in fiscal year 
2000, that are available for dividends in that program after claims have 
been paid and actuarially determined reserves have been set aside: 
Provided further, That if the cost of administration of an insurance 
program exceeds the amount of surplus earnings accumulated in that 
program, reimbursement shall be made only to the extent of such surplus 
earnings: Provided further, That the Secretary shall determine the cost 
of administration for fiscal year 2000, which is properly allocable to 
the provision of each insurance program and to the provision of any 
total disability income insurance included in such insurance program.
    Sec. 108. (a) In General.--The Congress supports efforts to 
implement improvements in health care services for veterans in rural 
areas.
    (b) Report Required.--(1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Not later than 6 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the impact of 
the allocation of funds under the Veterans Equitable Resource Allocation 
(VERA) funding formula on the rural subregions of the health care system 
administered by the Veterans Health Administration.

    (2) The report shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of impact of the allocation of funds under 
        the VERA formula on--
                    (i) travel times to veterans health care in rural 
                areas;
                    (ii) waiting periods for appointments for veterans 
                health care in rural areas;
                    (iii) the cost associated with additional community-
                based outpatient clinics;
                    (iv) transportation costs; and
                    (v) the unique challenges that Department of 
                Veterans Affairs medical centers in rural, low-
                population subregions face in attempting to increase 
                efficiency without large economies of scale.
            (B) The recommendations of the Secretary, if any, on how 
        rural veterans' access to health care services might be 
        enhanced.

    Sec. 109. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out a major 
medical facility project to renovate and construct facilities at the 
Olin E. Teague Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Temple, 
Texas, for a joint venture Cardiovascular Institute, in an amount not to 
exceed $11,500,000. In order to carry out that project, the amount of 
$11,500,000 appropriated for fiscal year 1998 and programmed for the 
renovation of Building 9 at the Waco, Texas, Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center is hereby made available for that project.
    Sec. 110. <<NOTE: Certification. Public information.>>  
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for the Medical 
Care appropriation of the Department of Veterans Affairs may be 
obligated for the realignment of the health care delivery system in VISN 
12 until 60 days after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs certifies that 
the department has: (1) consulted with veterans organizations, medical 
school affiliates, employee representatives, State veterans and health 
associations,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1055]]

and other interested parties with respect to the realignment plan to be 
implemented; and (2) made available to the Congress and the public 
information from the consultations regarding possible impacts on the 
accessibility of veterans health care services to affected veterans.

          TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                        Public and Indian Housing

                        housing certificate fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For activities and assistance to prevent the involuntary 
displacement of low-income families, the elderly and the disabled 
because of the loss of affordable housing stock, expiration of subsidy 
contracts (other than contracts for which amounts are provided under 
another heading in this Act) or expiration of use restrictions, or other 
changes in housing assistance arrangements, and for other purposes, 
$11,376,695,000 and amounts that are recaptured in this account, and 
recaptured under the appropriation for ``Annual contributions for 
assisted housing'', to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
of the total amount provided under this heading, $10,990,135,000, of 
which $6,790,135,000 shall be available on October 1, 1999 and 
$4,200,000,000 shall be available on October 1, 2000, shall be for 
assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (``the Act'' 
herein) (42 U.S.C. 1437) for use in connection with expiring or 
terminating section 8 subsidy contracts, for amendments to section 8 
subsidy contracts, for enhanced vouchers (including amendments and 
renewals) under any provision of law authorizing such assistance under 
section 8(t) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (47 U.S.C. 
1437f(t)), as added by section 538 of title V of this Act, and contracts 
entered into pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act: Provided further, That amounts available under the first 
proviso under this heading may be available for section 8 rental 
assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937: (1) to relocate 
residents of properties: (A) that are owned by the Secretary and being 
disposed of; or (B) that are discontinuing section 8 project-based 
assistance; (2) for relocation and replacement housing for units that 
are demolished or disposed of: (A) from the public housing inventory (in 
addition to amounts that may be available for such purposes under this 
and other headings); or (B) pursuant to section 24 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 or to other authority for the revitalization of 
severely distressed public housing, as set forth in the Appropriations 
Acts for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
Development, and Independent Agencies for fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 
and 1997, and in the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations 
Act of 1996; (3) for the conversion of section 23 projects to assistance 
under section 8; (4) for funds to carry out the family unification 
program; (5) for the relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts 
to combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a request 
from a law enforcement or prosecution agency; and (6) for the 1-year 
renewal of section 8 contracts for units in a project that is subject to 
an approved plan of action under the Emergency

[[Page 113 STAT. 1056]]

Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing 
Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990: Provided further, 
That of the total amount provided under this heading, $40,000,000 shall 
be made available to nonelderly disabled families affected by the 
designation of a public housing development under section 7 of such Act, 
the establishment of preferences in accordance with section 651 of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1361l), or the 
restriction of occupancy to elderly families in accordance with section 
658 of such Act, and to the extent the Secretary determines that such 
amount is not needed to fund applications for such affected families, to 
other nonelderly disabled families: Provided further, That amounts 
available under this heading may be made available for administrative 
fees and other expenses to cover the cost of administering rental 
assistance programs under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937: Provided further, That <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f note.>>  the fee 
otherwise authorized under section 8(q) of such Act shall be determined 
in accordance with section 8(q), as in effect immediately before the 
enactment of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998: 
Provided further, That all balances for the section 8 rental assistance, 
section 8 counseling, section 8 new construction, section 8 substantial 
rehabilitation, relocation/replacement/demolition, section 23 
conversions, rental and disaster vouchers, loan management set-aside, 
section 514 technical assistance, and other programs previously funded 
within the ``Annual Contributions'' account shall be transferred to this 
account, to be available for the purposes for which they were originally 
appropriated: Provided further, That all balances in the ``Section 8 
Reserve Preservation'' account shall be transferred to this account, to 
be available for the purposes for which they were originally 
appropriated: Provided further, That the unexpended amounts previously 
appropriated for special purpose grants within the ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'' account shall be recaptured and 
transferred to this account, to be available for assistance under the 
Act for use in connection with expiring or terminating section 8 subsidy 
contracts: Provided further, That of the amounts previously appropriated 
for property disposition within the ``Annual Contributions for Assisted 
Housing'' account, up to $79,000,000 shall be transferred to this 
account, to be available for assistance under the Act for use in 
connection with expiring or terminating section 8 subsidy contracts: 
Provided further, That of the unexpended amounts previously appropriated 
for carrying out the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident 
Homeownership Act of 1990 and the Emergency Low Income Housing 
Preservation Act of 1987, other than amounts made available for rental 
assistance, within the ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' and 
``Preserving Existing Housing Investments'' accounts, shall be 
recaptured and transferred to this account, to be available for 
assistance under the Act for use in connection with expiring or 
terminating section 8 subsidy contracts: Provided further, That of the 
total amount provided under this heading, $346,560,000 shall be made 
available for incremental vouchers under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 on a fair share basis and administered by public 
housing agencies: Provided further, That of the balances remaining from 
funds appropriated under this heading or the heading ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'' during fiscal year 2000 and prior 
years, $2,243,000,000 is rescinded: Provided further, That of the amount

[[Page 113 STAT. 1057]]

rescinded under the previous proviso, $1,300,000,000 shall be from 
amounts recaptured and the Secretary shall have discretion to specify 
the amounts to be rescinded from each of the foregoing accounts, 
$505,000,000 shall be from unobligated balances, and $438,000,000 shall 
be from amounts that were appropriated in fiscal year 1999 and prior 
years for section 8 assistance including assistance to relocate 
residents of properties that are owned by the Secretary and being 
disposed of or that are discontinuing section 8 project-based 
assistance, for relocation and replacement housing for units that are 
demolished or disposed of from the public housing inventory, and for 
enhanced vouchers as provided under the ``Preserving Existing Housing 
Investment'' account in the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing 
and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 
(Public Law 104-204).

                       public housing capital fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital and 
management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized under 
section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 
U.S.C. 1437), $2,900,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the total amount, up to $75,000,000 shall be for 
carrying out activities under section 9(h) of such Act, and for lease 
adjustments to section 23 projects: Provided further, That no funds may 
be used under this heading for the purposes specified in section 9(k) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Grants.>>  of the total amount, up to $75,000,000 shall be 
available for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to make 
grants to public housing agencies for emergency capital needs resulting 
from emergencies and natural disasters in fiscal year 2000: Provided 
further, That all balances for debt service for Public and Indian 
Housing and Public and Indian Housing Grants previously funded within 
the ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' account shall be 
transferred to this account, to be available for the purposes for which 
they were originally appropriated.

                      public housing operating fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437g), 
$3,138,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That no 
funds may be used under this heading for the purposes specified in 
section 9(k) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

             drug elimination grants for low-income housing

    For grants to public housing agencies and Indian tribes and their 
tribally designated housing entities for use in eliminating crime in 
public housing projects authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11901-11908, for grants 
for federally assisted low-income housing authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11909, 
and for drug information clearinghouse

[[Page 113 STAT. 1058]]

services authorized by 42 U.S.C. 11921-11925, $310,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, up to $4,500,000 shall be solely for technical 
assistance, technical assistance grants, training, and program 
assessment for or on behalf of public housing agencies, resident 
organizations, and Indian tribes and their tribally designated housing 
entities (including up to $150,000 for the cost of necessary travel for 
participants in such training): Provided further, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be used in connection 
with efforts to combat violent crime in public and assisted housing 
under the Operation Safe Home Program administered by the Inspector 
General of the Department of Housing and Urban Development: Provided 
further, That of the amount under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be 
provided to the Office of Inspector General for Operation Safe Home: 
Provided further, That of the amount under this heading, $20,000,000 
shall be available for a program named the New Approach Anti-Drug 
program which will provide competitive grants to entities managing or 
operating public housing developments, federally assisted multifamily 
housing developments, or other multifamily housing developments for low-
income families supported by non-Federal governmental entities or 
similar housing developments supported by nonprofit private sources in 
order to provide or augment security (including personnel costs), to 
assist in the investigation and/or prosecution of drug related criminal 
activity in and around such developments, and to provide assistance for 
the development of capital improvements at such developments directly 
relating to the security of such developments: Provided further, That 
grants for the New Approach Anti-Drug program shall be made on a 
competitive basis as specified in section 102 of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989.

     revitalization of severely distressed public housing (hope vi)

    For grants to public housing agencies for demolition, site 
revitalization, replacement housing, and tenant-based assistance grants 
to projects as authorized by section 24 of the United States Housing Act 
of 1937, $575,000,000 to remain available until expended of which the 
Secretary may use up to $10,000,000 for technical assistance and 
contract expertise, to be provided directly or indirectly by grants, 
contracts or cooperative agreements, including training and cost of 
necessary travel for participants in such training, by or to officials 
and employees of the department and of public housing agencies and to 
residents: Provided, That none of such funds shall be used directly or 
indirectly by granting competitive advantage in awards to settle 
litigation or pay judgments, unless expressly 
permitted <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  herein: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided under this heading, $1,200,000 shall be contracted 
through the Secretary to be used by the Urban Institute to conduct an 
independent study on the long-term effects of the HOPE VI program on 
former residents of distressed public housing developments.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1059]]

                  native american housing block grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (Public Law 104-330), $620,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $2,000,000 shall be 
contracted through the Secretary as technical assistance and capacity 
building to be used by the National American Indian Housing Council in 
support of the implementation of NAHASDA and up to $4,000,000 by the 
Secretary to support the inspection of Indian housing units, contract 
expertise, training, and technical assistance in the oversight and 
management of Indian housing and tenant-based assistance, including up 
to $200,000 for related travel: Provided, That of the amount provided 
under this heading, $6,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of 
guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of 
NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs, including the costs of 
modifying such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize the total 
principal amount of any notes and other obligations, any part of which 
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $54,600,000: Provided further, That 
for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, up 
to $200,000 from amounts in the first proviso, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
expenses'', to be used only for the administrative costs of these 
guarantees.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 3739), 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total loan 
principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$71,956,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, up to $150,000 from amounts in the first paragraph, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries 
and expenses'', to be used only for the administrative costs of these 
guarantees.

                   Community Planning and Development

               housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901), $232,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Secretary may use up to 0.75 percent of the funds under this heading 
for technical assistance.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1060]]

                 rural housing and economic development

    For the Office of Rural Housing and Economic Development in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the amount under this 
heading, up to $3,000,000 shall be used to develop capacity at the State 
and local level for developing rural housing and for rural economic 
development and for maintaining a clearinghouse of ideas for innovative 
strategies for rural housing and economic development and 
revitalization: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  of the 
amount under this heading, at least $22,000,000 shall be awarded by June 
1, 2000 to Indian tribes, State housing finance agencies, State 
community and/or economic development agencies, local rural nonprofits 
and community development corporations to support innovative housing and 
economic development activities in rural areas: Provided further, That 
all grants shall be awarded on a competitive basis as specified in 
section 102 of the HUD Reform Act.

         america's private investment companies program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans under the America's Private 
Investment Companies Program, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
guaranteed, not to exceed $541,000,000: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall not be available for obligation 
until the America's Private Investment Companies Program is authorized 
by subsequent legislation and the program is developed subject to notice 
and comment rulemaking: Provided further, That if the authorizing 
legislation is not enacted by June 30, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  2000, all 
funds under this heading shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for the ``Community development financial institutions 
fund program account'' to be available for use as grants and loans under 
that account.

                         urban empowerment zones

    For grants in connection with a second round of the empowerment 
zones program in urban areas, designated by the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development in fiscal year 1999 pursuant to the Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 1997, $55,000,000 to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development for ``Urban Empowerment Zones'', including $3,666,000 for 
each empowerment zone for use in conjunction with economic development 
activities consistent with the strategic plan of each empowerment zone, 
to remain available until expended.

                         rural empowerment zones

    For grants for the rural empowerment zone and enterprise communities 
programs, as designated by the Secretary of Agriculture, $15,000,000 to 
the Secretary of Agriculture for grants for designated empowerment zones 
in rural areas and for grants for

[[Page 113 STAT. 1061]]

designated rural enterprise communities, to remain available until 
expended.

                   community development block grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants to States and units of general local government and for 
related expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out a community 
development grants program as authorized by title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 
U.S.C. 5301), $4,800,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That $67,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes 
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, $3,000,000 shall be 
available as a grant to the Housing Assistance Council, $2,200,000 shall 
be available as a grant to the National American Indian Housing Council, 
and $41,500,000 shall be for grants pursuant to section 107 of the Act 
including $2,000,000 to support Alaska Native serving institutions and 
native Hawaiian serving institutions, as defined under the Higher 
Education Act, as amended: Provided further, That $20,000,000 shall be 
for grants pursuant to the Self Help Housing Opportunity Program: 
Provided further, That not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with 
funds appropriated herein (other than a grant made available in this 
paragraph to the Housing Assistance Council or the National American 
Indian Housing Council, or a grant using funds under section 107(b)(3) 
of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended) shall 
be expended for ``Planning and Management Development'' and 
``Administration'' as defined in regulations promulgated by the 
department: Provided further, That all balances for the Economic 
Development Initiative grants program, the John Heinz Neighborhood 
Development program, grants to Self Help Housing Opportunity program, 
and the Moving to Work Demonstration program previously funded within 
the ``Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing'' account shall be 
transferred to this account, to be available for the purposes for which 
they were originally appropriated.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $23,750,000 shall 
be made available for capacity building, of which $20,000,000 shall be 
made available for ``Capacity Building for Community Development and 
Affordable Housing'', for LISC and the Enterprise Foundation for 
activities as authorized by section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 
1993 (Public Law 103-120), as in effect immediately before June 12, 
1997, with not less than $4,000,000 of the funding to be used in rural 
areas, including tribal areas, and of which $3,750,000 shall be made 
available to Habitat for Humanity International.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use up to $55,000,000 for supportive 
services for public housing residents, as authorized by section 34 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and for grants for 
service coordinators and congregate services for the elderly and 
disabled residents of public and assisted housing: Provided further, 
That amounts made available for congregate services and service 
coordinators for the elderly and disabled under this heading and in 
prior fiscal years may be used by grantees

[[Page 113 STAT. 1062]]

to reimburse themselves for costs incurred in connection with providing 
service coordinators previously advanced by grantees out of other funds 
due to delays in the granting by or receipt of funds from the Secretary, 
and the funds so made available to grantees for congregate services or 
service coordinators under this heading or in prior years shall be 
considered as expended by the grantees upon such reimbursement. The 
Secretary shall not condition the availability of funding made available 
under this heading or in prior years for congregate services or service 
coordinators upon any grantee's obligation or expenditure of any prior 
funding.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $30,000,000 shall 
be available for neighborhood initiatives that are utilized to improve 
the conditions of distressed and blighted areas and neighborhoods, to 
stimulate investment, economic diversification, and community 
revitalization in areas with population outmigration or a stagnating or 
declining economic base, or to determine whether housing benefits can be 
integrated more effectively with welfare reform initiatives: Provided, 
that any unobligated balances of amounts set aside for neighborhood 
initiatives in fiscal years 1998 and 1999 may be utilized for any of the 
foregoing purposes: Provided further, That of the amount set aside for 
fiscal year 2000 under this paragraph, $23,000,000 shall be used for 
grants specified in the statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying this Act.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $42,500,000 shall be available for YouthBuild 
program activities authorized by subtitle D of title IV of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, and such 
activities shall be an eligible activity with respect to any funds made 
available under this heading: Provided, That local YouthBuild programs 
that demonstrate an ability to leverage private and nonprofit funding 
shall be given a priority for YouthBuild funding: Provided further, That 
of the amount provided under this paragraph, $2,500,000 shall be set 
aside and made available for a grant to Youthbuild USA for capacity 
building for community development and affordable housing activities as 
specified in section 4 of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993, as amended.
    Of the amount made available under this heading, $275,000,000 shall 
be available for grants for the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) to 
finance a variety of economic development efforts, including 
$240,000,000 for making individual grants for targeted economic 
investments in accordance with the terms and conditions specified for 
such grants in the statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying this Act.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $29,000,000, as authorized by 
section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $1,261,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate limitation 
on outstanding obligations guaranteed in section 108(k) of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974: Provided further, That in 
addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1063]]

$1,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Salaries and expenses''.
    The Secretary is directed to transfer the administration of the 
small cities component of the Community Development Block Grant Program 
for the funds allocated for the State of New York under section 106(d) 
of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 for fiscal year 
2000 and all fiscal years thereafter to the State of New York to be 
administered by the Governor of New York.

                        brownfields redevelopment

    For Economic Development Grants, as authorized by section 108(q) of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, for 
Brownfields redevelopment projects, $25,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall make these grants available on a competitive basis as 
specified in section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Reform Act of 1989.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME investment partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(Public Law 101-625), as amended, $1,600,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That up to $15,000,000 of these funds shall be 
available for Housing Counseling under section 106 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1968: Provided further, That 
$2,000,000 <<NOTE: Grants.>>  of these funds shall be made available as 
a grant to the National Housing Development Corporation for a program of 
housing acquisition and rehabilitation: Provided further, That all 
Housing Counseling program balances previously appropriated in the 
``Housing Counseling Assistance'' account shall be transferred to this 
account, to be available for the purposes for which they were originally 
appropriated.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the emergency shelter grants program (as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Act, as amended); the supportive housing program (as authorized under 
subtitle C of title IV of such Act); the section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation single room occupancy program (as authorized under the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) to assist homeless 
individuals pursuant to section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act; and the shelter plus care program (as authorized under 
subtitle F of title IV of such Act), $1,020,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not less than 30 percent of these funds 
shall be used for permanent housing, and all funding for services must 
be matched by 25 percent in funding by each grantee: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall conduct a 
review of any balances of amounts provided under this heading in any 
previous appropriations Acts that have been obligated but remain 
unexpended and shall deobligate any such amounts that the Secretary 
determines were obligated for contracts that are unlikely to be 
performed and award such amounts during this fiscal year: Provided 
further, That up to 1 percent of the funds appropriated under

[[Page 113 STAT. 1064]]

this heading may be used for technical assistance: Provided further, 
That all balances previously appropriated in the ``Emergency Shelter 
Grants'', ``Supportive Housing'', ``Supplemental Assistance for 
Facilities to Assist the Homeless'', ``Shelter Plus Care'', ``Section 8 
Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy'', and ``Innovative 
Homeless Initiatives Demonstration'' accounts shall be transferred to 
and merged with this account, to be available for any authorized purpose 
under this heading.

                            Housing Programs

                     housing for special populations

    For assistance for the purchase, construction, acquisition, or 
development of additional public and subsidized housing units for low 
income families not otherwise provided for, $911,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That <<NOTE: Grants.>>  $710,000,000 
shall be for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance 
contracts, for housing for the elderly, as authorized by section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and for project rental assistance, 
and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, for the 
elderly under such section 202(c)(2), and for supportive services 
associated with the housing of which amount $50,000,000 shall be for 
service coordinators and continuation of existing congregate services 
grants for residents of assisted housing projects, and of which amount 
$50,000,000 shall be for grants for conversion of existing section 202 
projects, or portions thereof, to assisted living or related use, 
consistent with the relevant provision of title V of this Act: Provided 
further, That of the amount under this heading, $201,000,000 shall be 
for capital advances, including amendments to capital advance contracts, 
for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by 
section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, 
for project rental assistance, for amendments to contracts for project 
rental assistance, and supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811 of such Act: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may designate up to 25 percent of 
the amounts earmarked under this paragraph for section 811 of such Act 
for tenant-based assistance, as authorized under that section, including 
such authority as may be waived under the next proviso, which assistance 
is 5 years in duration: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive 
any provision of such section 202 and such section 811 (including the 
provisions governing the terms and conditions of project rental 
assistance and tenant-based assistance) that the Secretary determines is 
not necessary to achieve the objectives of these programs, or that 
otherwise impedes the ability to develop, operate or administer projects 
assisted under these programs, and may make provision for alternative 
conditions or terms where appropriate.

                          flexible subsidy fund

                           (transfer of funds)

    From the Rental Housing Assistance Fund, all uncommitted balances of 
excess rental charges as of September 30, 1999, and any collections made 
during fiscal year 2000, shall be transferred

[[Page 113 STAT. 1065]]

to the Flexible Subsidy Fund, as authorized by section 236(g) of the 
National Housing Act, as amended.

                     Federal Housing Administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    During fiscal year 2000, commitments to guarantee loans to carry out 
the purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed a loan principal of $140,000,000,000.
    During fiscal year 2000, obligations to make direct loans to carry 
out the purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as 
amended, shall not exceed $100,000,000: Provided, That the foregoing 
amount shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with sales of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
and direct loan program, $330,888,000, of which not to exceed 
$324,866,000 shall be transferred to the appropriation for ``Salaries 
and expenses''; not to exceed $4,022,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for the Office of Inspector General. In addition, for 
administrative contract expenses, $160,000,000: Provided, That to the 
extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $49,664,000,000 on or before 
April 1, 2000, an additional $1,400 for administrative contract expenses 
shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan 
commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount below 
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this proviso 
exceed $16,000,000.

              fha--general and special risk program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by sections 238 and 
519 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), including 
the cost of loan guarantee modifications (as that term is defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended), 
$153,000,000, including not to exceed $153,000,000 from unobligated 
balances previously appropriated under this heading, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize 
total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, of up to 
$18,100,000,000: Provided further, That any amounts made available in 
any prior appropriations Act for the cost (as such term is defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans 
that are obligations of the funds established under section 238 or 519 
of the National Housing Act that have not been obligated or that are 
deobligated shall be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the making of such guarantees and shall 
remain available until expended, notwithstanding the expiration of any 
period of availability otherwise applicable to such amounts.
    Gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, as 
authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, and 519(a) of the National 
Housing Act, shall not exceed $50,000,000; of which not to exceed

[[Page 113 STAT. 1066]]

$30,000,000 shall be for bridge financing in connection with the sale of 
multifamily real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured 
under such Act; and of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for 
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in connection with the sale 
of single-family real properties owned by the Secretary and formerly 
insured under such Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
guaranteed and direct loan programs, $211,455,000 (including not to 
exceed $147,000,000 from unobligated balances previously appropriated 
under this heading), of which $193,134,000, shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for ``Salaries and expenses''; and of which $18,321,000 
shall be transferred to the appropriation for the Office of Inspector 
General. In addition, for administrative contract expenses necessary to 
carry out the guaranteed and direct loan programs, $144,000,000: 
Provided, That to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed 
$7,263,000,000 on or before April 1, 2000, an additional $19,800 for 
administrative contract expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 
in additional guaranteed loan commitments over $7,263,000,000 (including 
a pro rata amount for any increment below $1,000,000), but in no case 
shall funds made available by this proviso exceed $14,400,000.

                Government National Mortgage Association

 guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

                      (including transfer of funds)

    During fiscal year 2000, new commitments to issue guarantees to 
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), shall not exceed $200,000,000,000.
    For administrative expenses necessary to carry out the guaranteed 
mortgage-backed securities program, $9,383,000 to be derived from the 
GNMA guarantees of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed loan receipt 
account, of which not to exceed $9,383,000 shall be transferred to the 
appropriation for departmental ``Salaries and expenses''.

                     Policy Development and Research

                         research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), 
including carrying out the functions of the Secretary under section 
1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1968, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be for the Partnership 
for Advancing Technology in Housing (PATH) Initiative and $500,000 shall 
be for a commission established in section 525 of title V of this Act.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1067]]

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                         fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$44,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001, of which 
$24,000,000 shall be to carry out activities pursuant to such section 
561: Provided, That no funds made available under this heading shall be 
used to lobby the executive or legislative branches of the Federal 
Government in connection with a specific contract, grant or loan.

                      Office of Lead Hazard Control

                          lead hazard reduction

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by sections 
1011 and 1053 of the Residential Lead-Based Hazard Reduction Act of 
1992, $80,000,000 to remain available until expended, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for CLEARCorps and $10,000,000 shall be for a 
Healthy Homes Initiative, which shall be a program pursuant to sections 
501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 that shall 
include research, studies, testing, and demonstration efforts, including 
education and outreach concerning lead-based paint poisoning and other 
housing-related environmental diseases and hazards: Provided, That all 
balances for the Lead Hazard Reduction Programs previously funded in the 
Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing and Community Development 
Block Grant accounts shall be transferred to this account, to be 
available for the purposes for which they were originally appropriated.

                      Management and Administration

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary administrative and non-administrative expenses of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, not otherwise provided for, 
including not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $1,005,733,000, of which $518,000,000 shall be provided from 
the various funds of the Federal Housing Administration, $9,383,000 
shall be provided from funds of the Government National Mortgage 
Association, $1,000,000 shall be provided from the ``Community 
development block grants program'' account, $150,000 shall be provided 
by transfer from the ``Title VI indian federal guarantees program'' 
account, and $200,000 shall be provided by transfer from the ``Indian 
housing loan guarantee fund program'' account: Provided, That the 
Secretary is prohibited from using any funds under this heading or any 
other heading in this Act from employing more than 77 schedule C and 20 
noncareer Senior Executive Service employees: Provided further, That the 
Secretary is prohibited from using funds under

[[Page 113 STAT. 1068]]

this heading or any other heading in this Act to employ more than 9,300 
employees: Provided further, That the Secretary is prohibited from using 
funds under this heading or any other heading in this Act to convert any 
external community builders to career employees, and after September 1, 
2000 to employ any external community builders: Provided further, That 
the Secretary is prohibited from using funds under this heading or any 
other heading in this Act to employ more than 14 employees in the Office 
of Public Affairs: Provided further, That of the amount made available 
under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be for the Millennial Housing 
Commission as established under section 206.

                       office of inspector general

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $83,000,000, 
of which $22,343,000 shall be provided from the various funds of the 
Federal Housing Administration and $10,000,000 shall be provided from 
the amount earmarked for Operation Safe Home in the appropriation for 
``Drug elimination grants for low-income housing'': Provided, That the 
Inspector General shall have independent authority over all personnel 
issues within the Office of Inspector General.

             Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the Federal Housing Enterprise Financial Safety and 
Soundness Act of 1992, including not to exceed $500 for official 
reception and representation expenses, $19,493,000, to remain available 
until expended, to be derived from the Federal Housing Enterprise 
Oversight Fund: Provided, That not to exceed such amount shall be 
available from the General Fund of the Treasury to the extent necessary 
to incur obligations and make expenditures pending the receipt of 
collections to the Fund: Provided further, That the General Fund amount 
shall be reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so 
as to result in a final appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
not more than $0.

                        administrative provisions

                      financing adjustment factors

    Sec. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 
1988 (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3224, 3268) shall be rescinded, or 
in the case of cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts 
of budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to 
the Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary

[[Page 113 STAT. 1069]]

of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement occurred after 
January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. Notwithstanding the 
previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 percent of the 
budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to refinance their 
project at a lower interest rate.

                      fair housing and free speech

    Sec. 202. None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2000 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.

           housing opportunities for persons with aids grants

    Sec. 203. Section 207 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999, <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2484.>>  is amended by striking wherever it 
occurs ``fiscal year 1999'' and inserting ``fiscal years 1999 and 
2000''.

                              reprogramming

    Sec. 204. Of <<NOTE: Grants. California.>>  the amounts made 
available under the sixth undesignated paragraph under the heading 
``Community Planning and Development--community development block 
grants'' in title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing 
and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-276; 112 Stat. 2477) for the Economic Development 
Initiative (EDI) for grants for targeted economic investments, the 
$1,000,000 to be made available (pursuant to the related provisions of 
the joint explanatory statement in the conference report to accompany 
such Act (House Report No. 105-769, 105th Congress, 2d session)) to the 
City of Redlands, California, for the redevelopment initiatives near the 
historic Fox Theater shall, notwithstanding such provisions, be made 
available to such city for the following purposes:
            (1) $700,000 shall be for renovation of the City of Redlands 
        Fire Station No. 1;
            (2) $200,000 shall be for renovation of the Mission Gables 
        House at the Redlands Bowl historic outdoor amphitheater; and
            (3) $100,000 shall be for the preservation of historic 
        Hillside Cemetery.

  adjustments to income eligibility for unusually high or low families 
                       incomes in assisted housing

    Sec. 205. Section 16 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
is <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437n.>>  amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting before the period 
        the following: ``; except that the Secretary may establish 
        income ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the area 
        median income on the basis of the Secretary's findings that such 
        variations are necessary because of unusually high or low family 
        incomes''; and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1070]]

            (2) in subsection (c)(3), by inserting before the period the 
        following: ``; except that the Secretary may establish income 
        ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the area median 
        income on the basis of the Secretary's findings that such 
        variations are necessary because of unusually high or low family 
        incomes''.

                      millennial housing commission

    Sec. 206. (a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 12701 note.>>  Establishment.--There is 
hereby established a commission to be known as the Millennial Housing 
Commission (in this section referred to as the ``Commission'').

    (b) Study.--The duty of the Commission shall be to conduct a study 
that examines, analyzes, and explores--
            (1) the importance of housing, particularly affordable 
        housing which includes housing for the elderly, to the 
        infrastructure of the United States;
            (2) the various possible methods for increasing the role of 
        the private sector in providing affordable housing in the United 
        States, including the effectiveness and efficiency of such 
        methods; and
            (3) whether the existing programs of the Department of 
        Housing and Urban Development work in conjunction with one 
        another to provide better housing opportunities for families, 
        neighborhoods, and communities, and how such programs can be 
        improved with respect to such purpose.

    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Number <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  and Appointment.--The 
        Commission shall be composed of 22 members, appointed not later 
        than January 1, 2000, as follows:
                    (A) Two co-chairpersons appointed by--
                          (i) one co-chairperson appointed by a 
                      committee consisting of the chairmen of the 
                      Subcommittees on the Departments of Veterans 
                      Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
                      Independent Agencies of the Committees on 
                      Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
                      the Senate, and the chairman of the Subcommittee 
                      on Housing and Community Opportunities of the 
                      House of Representatives and the chairman of the 
                      Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation of the 
                      Senate; and
                          (ii) one co-chairperson appointed by a 
                      committee consisting of the ranking minority 
                      members of the Subcommittees on the Departments of 
                      Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
                      Development, and Independent Agencies of the 
                      Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
                      Representatives and the Senate, and the ranking 
                      minority member of the Subcommittee on Housing and 
                      Community Opportunities of the House of 
                      Representatives and the ranking minority member of 
                      the Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation of 
                      the Senate.
                    (B) Ten members appointed by the Chairman and 
                Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
                Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on 
                Banking and Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1071]]

                    (C) Ten members appointed by the Chairman and 
                Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate and the Chairman and 
                Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
            (2) Qualifications.--Appointees should have proven expertise 
        in directing, assemblying, or applying capital resources from a 
        variety of sources to the successful development of affordable 
        housing or the revitalization of communities, including economic 
        and job development.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy on the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers and shall be filled in the manner in which the 
        original appointment was made.
            (4) Chairpersons.--The members appointed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1)(A) shall serve as co-chairpersons of the 
        Commission.
            (5) Prohibition of pay.--Members of the Commission shall 
        serve without pay.
            (6) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 
        5, United States Code.
            (7) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
        shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
            (8) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairpersons.

    (d) Director and Staff.--
            (1) Director.--The Commission shall have a Director who 
        shall be appointed by the Chairperson. The Director shall be 
        paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for 
        level V of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Staff.--The Commission may appoint personnel as 
        appropriate. The staff of the Commission shall be appointed 
        subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be 
        paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (3) Experts and consultants.--The Commission may procure 
        temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of 
        title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals not to 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic 
        pay payable for the General Schedule.
            (4) Staff of federal agencies.--Upon request of the 
        Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may 
        detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that 
        department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying 
        out its duties under this Act.

    (e) Powers.--
            (1) Hearings and sessions.--The Commission may, for the 
        purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and act 
        at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the 
        Commission considers appropriate.
            (2) Powers of members and agents.--Any member or agent of 
        the Commission may, if authorized by the Commission,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1072]]

        take any action which the Commission is authorized to take by 
        this section.
            (3) Obtaining official data.--The Commission may secure 
        directly from any department or agency of the United States 
        information necessary to enable it to carry out this Act. Upon 
        request of the Chairpersons of the Commission, the head of that 
        department or agency shall furnish that information to the 
        Commission.
            (4) Gifts, bequests, and devises.--The Commission may 
        accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of 
        services or property, both real and personal, for the purpose of 
        aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission. Gifts, 
        bequests, or devises of money and proceeds from sales of other 
        property received as gifts, bequests, or devises shall be 
        deposited in the Treasury and shall be available for 
        disbursement upon order of the Commission.
            (5) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
        in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
            (6) Administrative support services.--Upon the request of 
        the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
        provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the 
        administrative support services necessary for the Commission to 
        carry out its responsibilities under this section.
            (7) Contract Authority.--The Commission may contract with 
        and compensate Government and private agencies or persons for 
        services, without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes 
        (41 U.S.C. 5).

    (f ) Report.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Commission shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations and Banking and Financial Services of 
the House of Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a final report not 
later than March 1, 2002. The report shall contain a detailed statement 
of the findings and conclusions of the Commission with respect to the 
study conducted under subsection (b), together with its recommendations 
for legislation, administrative actions, and any other actions the 
Commission considers appropriate.

    (g) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on June 30, 2002. 
Section 14(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
App.; relating to the termination of advisory committees) shall not 
apply to the Commission.

                        fha technical correction

    Sec. 207. Section 203(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1709(b)(2)(A)(ii)) is amended by adding before ``48 percent'' the 
following: ``the greater of the dollar amount limitation in effect under 
this section for the area on the date of the enactment of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1999 or''.

                               rescissions

    Sec. 208. Of the balances remaining from funds appropriated to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development in Public Law 105-65 and 
prior appropriations Acts, $74,400,000 is rescinded: Provided, That the 
amount rescinded shall be comprised of--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1073]]

            (1) $30,552,000 of the amounts that were appropriated for 
        the modernization of public housing unit; under the heading 
        ``Annual contributions for assisted housing'', including an 
        amount equal to the amount transferred from such account to, and 
        merged with amounts under the heading ``Public housing capital 
        fund'';
            (2) $3,048,000 of the amounts from which no disbursements 
        have been made within five successive fiscal years beginning 
        after September 30, 1993, that were appropriated under the 
        heading ``Annual contributions for assisted housing'', including 
        an amount equal to the amount transferred from such account to 
        the account under the heading ``Housing certificate fund'';
            (3) $22,975,000 of amounts appropriated for homeownership 
        assistance under section 235(r) of the National Housing Act, 
        including $6,875,000 appropriated in Public Law 103-327 
        (approved September 28, 1994, 104 Stat. 2305) for such purposes;
            (4) $11,400,000 of the amounts appropriated for the 
        Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere programs 
        (HOPE programs), as authorized by the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act; and
            (5) $6,400,000 of the balances remaining in the account 
        under the heading ``Nonprofit Sponsor Assistance Account''.

                  grant for national cities in schools

    Sec. 209. For a grant to the National Cities in Schools Community 
Development program under section 930 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1992, $5,000,000.

                      moving to work demonstration

    Sec. 210. For the Jobs-Plus Initiative of the Moving to Work 
Demonstration, $5,000,000 to cover the cost of rent-based work 
incentives to families in selected public housing developments, who 
shall be encouraged to go to work under work incentive plans approved by 
the Secretary and carefully tracked as part of the research and 
demonstration effort.

                                repealer

    Sec. 211. Section 218 of Public Law 104-204 <<NOTE: 110 Stat. 
2905.>>  is repealed.

              fha administrative contract expense authority

    Sec. 212. Section 1 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1702) is 
amended by inserting the following new sentence after the first proviso: 
``Except with respect to title III, for the purposes of this section, 
the term `nonadministrative' shall not include contract expenses that 
are not capitalized or routinely deducted from the proceeds of sales, 
and such expenses shall not be payable from funds made available by this 
Act.''.

                         full payment of claims

    Sec. 213. (a) Section 541 <<NOTE: 12 USC 1735f-19.>>  of the 
National Housing Act is amended--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1074]]

            (1) by amending the heading to read as follows: ``partial 
        payment of claims on defaulted mortgages and in connection with 
        mortgage restructuring''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``partial payment of the 
        claim under the mortgage insurance contract'' and inserting 
        ``partial or full payment of claim under one or more mortgage 
        insurance contracts''.

    (b) Section 517 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and 
Affordability Act of 1997 <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f note.>>  is amended by 
adding a new subsection (a)(6) to read as follows: ``(6) The second 
mortgage under this section may be a first mortgage if no restructured 
or new first mortgage will meet the requirement of paragraph (1)(A).''.

               availability of income matching information

    Sec. 214. (a) Section 3(f ) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437a), as amended by section 508(d)(1) of the Quality 
Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998, is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) after the first appearance of ``public housing 
                agency'' by inserting ``, or the owner responsible for 
                determining the participant's eligibility or level of 
                benefits,''; and
                    (B) after ``as applicable'' by inserting ``, or to 
                the owner responsible for determining the participant's 
                eligibility or level of benefits''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``or'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking the period and 
                inserting ``, or''; and
                    (C) by inserting at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(C) for which project-based assistance is provided under 
        section 8, section 202, or section 811.''.

    (b) Section 904(b) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 3544), as amended by section 508(d)(2) 
of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998, is further 
amended in paragraph (4)--
            (1) by inserting after ``public housing agency'' the first 
        time it appears the following: ``, or the owner responsible for 
        determining the participant's eligibility or level of 
        benefits,''; and
            (2) by striking ``the public housing agency verifying 
        income'' and inserting ``verifying income''.

  exemption for alaska and mississippi from requirement of resident on 
                                  board

    Sec. 215. Public housing agencies in the States of Alaska and 
Mississippi shall not be required to comply with section 2(b) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, during fiscal year 2000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1075]]

          administration of the cdbg program by new york state

    Sec. 216. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
transfer on the date of the enactment of this Act the administration of 
the Small Cities component of the Community Development Block Grants 
program for all funds allocated for the State of New York under section 
106(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 for fiscal 
year 2000 and all fiscal years thereafter, to the State of New York to 
be administered by the Governor of such State.

                          section 202 exemption

    Sec. 217. <<NOTE: Peggy A. Burgin.>>  Notwithstanding section 202 of 
the Housing Act of 1959 or any other provision of law, Peggy A. Burgin 
may not be disqualified on the basis of age from residing at Clark's 
Landing in Groton, Vermont.

                    darlinton preservation amendment

    Sec. 218. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon 
prepayment of the FHA-insured section 236 mortgage, the Secretary shall 
continue to provide interest reduction payment in accordance with the 
existing amortization schedule for Darlinton Manor Apartments, a 100-
unit project located at 606 North 5th Street, Bozemen, Montana, which 
will continue as affordable housing pursuant to a use agreement with the 
State of Montana.

                          risk-sharing priority

    Sec. 219. Section 517(b)(3) of the Departments of Veterans Affairs 
and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1998 <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f note.>>  is amended by 
inserting after ``1992.'' the following: ``The Secretary shall use risk-
shared financing under section 542(c) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1992 for any mortgage restructuring, rehabilitation 
financing, or debt refinancing included as part of a mortgage 
restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan if the terms and 
conditions are considered to be the best available financing in terms of 
financial savings to the FHA insurance funds and will result in reduced 
risk of loss to the Federal Government.''.

      treatment of expiring economic development initiative grants

    Sec. 220. (a) Availability.--Notwithstanding section 1552 of title 
31, United States Code, the grant amounts identified in subsection (b) 
shall remain available to the grantees for the purposes for which such 
amounts were obligated through September 30, 2000.
    (b) Grants.--The grant amounts identified in this subsection are the 
amounts provided under the following grants made by the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development under the economic development initiative 
under section 108(q) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308(q)):
            (1) The grant for Miami, Florida, designated as B-92-ED-12-
        013.
            (2) The grant for Miami Beach, Florida, designated as B-92-
        ED-12-014.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1076]]

    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall be considered to have taken 
effect on September 30, 1999. The Secretary of the Treasury and the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall take such actions as 
may be necessary to carry out this section, notwithstanding any actions 
taken previously pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, United States 
Code.

        use of trusts with regard to cooperative housing section

    Sec. 221. Section 213(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
1715e(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent membership in a 
nonprofit housing cooperative from being held in the name of a trust, 
the beneficiary of which shall occupy the dwelling unit in accordance 
with rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary.''.

                       grant technical correction

    Sec. 222. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
made available under the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 
(Public Law 101-507) for a special purpose grant under section 107 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to the County of 
Hawaii for the purpose of an environmental impact statement for the 
development of a water resource system in Kohala, Hawaii, that is 
unobligated on the date of the enactment of this Act, may be used to 
fund water system improvements, including exploratory wells, well 
drillings, pipeline replacements, water system planning and design, and 
booster pump and reservoir development.

                    reuse of certain budget authority

    Sec. 223. Section 8(z) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
is <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f.>>  amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting after ``on account of'' the 
                following: ``expiration or''; and
                    (B) by striking the parenthetical phrase; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3).

                           section 108 waiver

    Sec. 224. With respect to the $6,700,000 commitment in connection 
with guaranteed obligations for the Sandtown-Winchester Home Ownership 
Zone under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974, the Secretary shall not require security in excess of that 
authorized under section 108(d)(1)(B).

                             hopwa technical

    Sec. 225. (a) <<NOTE: Pennsylvania. New Jersey.>>  Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the amount allocated for fiscal year 2000, 
and the amounts that would otherwise be allocated for fiscal year 2001, 
to the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on behalf of the Philadelphia, 
PA-NJ Primary Metropolitan Area (hereafter ``metropolitan area''), under 
section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)),

[[Page 113 STAT. 1077]]

the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall adjust such amounts 
by allocating to the State of New Jersey the proportion of the 
metropolitan area's amount that is based on the number of cases of AIDS 
reported in the portion of the metropolitan area that is located in New 
Jersey.

    (b) The State of New Jersey shall use amounts allocated to the State 
under this section to carry out eligible activities under section 855 of 
the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in the portion of the 
metropolitan area that is located in New Jersey.

                     TITLE III--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one for replacement only) 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and insurance of official motor 
vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of such countries, 
$28,467,000, to remain available until expended.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum rate 
payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, $8,000,000: 
Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board shall 
have not more than three career Senior Executive Service positions.

                       Department of the Treasury

              Community Development Financial Institutions

              community development financial institutions

                          fund program account

    For grants, loans, and technical assistance to qualifying community 
development lenders, and administrative expenses of the Fund, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for ES-3, 
$95,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001, of which up 
to $7,860,000 may be used for administrative expenses, up to $16,500,000 
may be used for the cost of direct loans, and up to $1,000,000 may be 
used for administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program: 
Provided, That the cost of

[[Page 113 STAT. 1078]]

direct loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed $53,140,000: 
Provided further, That not more than $30,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading may be used for programs and activities 
authorized in section 114 of the Community Development Banking and 
Financial Institutions Act of 1994.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $49,000,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                 national and community service programs

                           operating expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in the matter under this heading as the 
``Corporation'') in carrying out programs, activities, and initiatives 
under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (referred to in the 
matter under this heading as the ``Act'') (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.), 
$434,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, 
That not more than $28,500,000 shall be available for administrative 
expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12671(a)(4)) with not less than $1,500,000 targeted to administrative 
needs, not including salaries and expenses, identified as urgent by the 
Corporation without regard to the provisions of section 501(a)(4)(B) of 
the Act: Provided further, That not more than $2,500 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not more than $70,000,000, to remain available without fiscal year 
limitation, shall be transferred to the National Service Trust account 
for educational awards authorized under subtitle D of title I of the Act 
(42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq.), of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available for national service scholarships for high school students 
performing community service: Provided further, That not more than 
$234,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading shall be 
available for grants under the National Service Trust program authorized 
under subtitle C of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.) 
(relating to activities including the AmeriCorps program), of which not 
more than $45,000,000 may be used to administer, reimburse, or support 
any national service program authorized under section 121(d)(2) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12581(d)(2)): Provided further, That not more than 
$7,500,000 of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available for the Points of Light

[[Page 113 STAT. 1079]]

Foundation for activities authorized under title III of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12661 et seq.): Provided further, That no funds shall be 
available for national service programs run by Federal agencies 
authorized under section 121(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12571(b)): 
Provided further, That to the maximum extent feasible, funds 
appropriated under subtitle C of title I of the Act shall be provided in 
a manner that is consistent with the recommendations of peer review 
panels in order to ensure that priority is given to programs that 
demonstrate quality, innovation, replicability, and sustainability: 
Provided further, That not more than $18,000,000 of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for the Civilian 
Community Corps authorized under subtitle E of title I of the Act (42 
U.S.C. 12611 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $43,000,000 
shall be available for school-based and community-based service-learning 
programs authorized under subtitle B of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12521 et seq.): Provided further, That not more than $28,500,000 shall 
be available for quality and innovation activities authorized under 
subtitle H of title I of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12853 et seq.): Provided 
further, That not more than $5,000,000 shall be available for audits and 
other evaluations authorized under section 179 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
12639): Provided further, That to the maximum extent practicable, the 
Corporation shall increase significantly the level of matching funds and 
in-kind contributions provided by the private sector, shall expand 
significantly the number of educational awards provided under subtitle D 
of title I, and shall reduce the total Federal costs per participant in 
all programs: Provided further, That of amounts available in the 
National Service Trust account from previous appropriations Acts, 
$80,000,000 shall be rescinded.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $4,000,000.

                        Court of Veterans Appeals

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Veterans Appeals as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7251-7298, $11,450,000, 
of which $910,000, shall be available for the purpose of providing 
financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the process 
and reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public Law 
102-229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for maintenance, 
operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' 
and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the purchase of one 
passenger motor vehicle for replacement only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $12,473,000, to 
remain available until expended.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1080]]

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                         science and technology

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended; necessary expenses for 
personnel and related costs and travel expenses, including uniforms, or 
allowances therefore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior 
level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; procurement of laboratory equipment 
and supplies; other operating expenses in support of research and 
development; construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$645,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That the obligated balance of sums available in this account 
shall remain available through September 30, 2008 for liquidating 
obligations made in fiscal years 2000 and 2001: Provided further, That 
the obligated balance of funds transferred to this account in Public Law 
105-276 shall remain available through September 30, 2007 for 
liquidating obligations made in fiscal years 1999 and 2000.

                  environmental programs and management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses, including uniforms, or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for senior level positions under 
5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library memberships in 
societies or associations which issue publications to members only or at 
a price to members lower than to subscribers who are not members; 
construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; and not to exceed $6,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $1,900,000,000, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That 
the obligated balance of such sums shall remain available through 
September 30, 2008 for liquidating obligations made in fiscal years 2000 
and 2001: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act shall be used to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or 
orders for the purpose of implementation, or in preparation for 
implementation, of the Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 
1997, in Kyoto, Japan at the Third Conference of the Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which has not 
been submitted to the Senate for advice and consent to ratification 
pursuant to article II, section 2, clause 2, of the United States 
Constitution, and which has not entered into force pursuant to article 
25 of the Protocol: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to implement or administer the interim 
guidance issued

[[Page 113 STAT. 1081]]

on February 5, 1998, by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to 
title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and designated as the ``Interim 
Guidance for Investigating Title VI Administrative Complaints 
Challenging Permits'' with respect to complaints filed under such title 
after October 21, 1998, and until guidance is finalized. Nothing in this 
proviso may be construed to restrict the Environmental Protection Agency 
from developing or issuing final guidance relating to title VI of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964: Provided further, That <<NOTE: 7 USC 136r 
note.>>  notwithstanding 7 U.S.C. 136r and 15 U.S.C. 2609, beginning in 
fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, grants awarded under section 20 of the 
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended, and 
section 10 of the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended, shall be 
available for research, development, monitoring, public education, 
training, demonstrations, and studies: Provided further, That the 
unexpended funds remaining from the $2,200,000 appropriated under this 
heading in Public Law 105-276 for a grant to the Lake Ponchartrain Basin 
Foundation circuit rider initiative in Louisiana shall be transferred to 
the ``State and tribal assistance grants'' appropriation to remain 
available until expended for making grants for the construction of 
wastewater and water treatment facilities and groundwater protection 
infrastructure in accordance with the terms and conditions specified for 
such grants in the report accompanying that Act.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project, 
$32,409,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That the sums available in this account shall remain available through 
September 30, 2008 for liquidating obligations made in fiscal years 2000 
and 2001: Provided further, That the obligated balance of funds 
transferred to this account in Public Law 105-276 shall remain available 
through September 30, 2007 for liquidating obligations made in fiscal 
years 1999 and 2000.

                        buildings and facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $62,600,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                      hazardous substance superfund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 
including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 
9611), and for construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and 
renovation of facilities, not to exceed $75,000 per project; 
$1,400,000,000 (of which $100,000,000 shall not become available until 
September 1, 2000), to remain available until expended, consisting of 
$700,000,000, as authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund 
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of

[[Page 113 STAT. 1082]]

1986 (SARA), as amended by Public Law 101-508, and $700,000,000 as a 
payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund for 
purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA, as amended by Public 
Law 101-508: Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
allocated to other Federal agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of 
CERCLA: Provided further, That $11,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector 
General'' appropriation to remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided further, That $38,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be transferred to the ``Science and technology'' 
appropriation to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 111(m) of CERCLA or any other 
provision of law, $70,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available to the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) to carry out activities described in sections 
104(i), 111(c)(4), and 111(c)(14) of CERCLA and section 118(f ) of SARA: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
lieu of performing a health assessment under section 104(i)(6) of 
CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other appropriate health 
studies, evaluations or activities, including, without limitation, 
biomedical testing, clinical evaluations, medical monitoring, and 
referral to accredited health care providers: Provided further, That in 
performing any such health assessment or health study, evaluation, or 
activity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not be bound by the deadlines 
in section 104(i)(6)(A): Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for ATSDR to issue in 
excess of 40 toxicological profiles pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA 
during fiscal year 2000.

                leaking underground storage tank program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 205 of the Superfund Amendments 
and Reauthorization Act of 1986, and for construction, alteration, 
repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facilities, not to exceed 
$75,000 per project, $70,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                           oil spill response

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$15,000,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,466,650,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $1,350,000,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for 
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act, as amended; $820,000,000 shall be for 
capitalization grants for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under 
section 1452 of the

[[Page 113 STAT. 1083]]

Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, except that, notwithstanding 
section 1452(n) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, none of the 
funds made available under this heading in this Act, or in previous 
appropriations Acts, shall be reserved by the Administrator for health 
effects studies on drinking water contaminants; $50,000,000 shall be for 
architectural, engineering, planning, design, construction and related 
activities in connection with the construction of high priority water 
and wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
Border, after consultation with the appropriate border commission; 
$30,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska to address 
drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs of rural and Alaska 
Native Villages; $331,650,000 shall be for making grants for the 
construction of wastewater and water treatment facilities and 
groundwater protection infrastructure in accordance with the terms and 
conditions specified for such grants in the conference report and joint 
explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying this 
Act (H.R. 2684); and $885,000,000 shall be for grants, including 
associated program support costs, to States, federally recognized 
tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and air pollution control 
agencies for multi-media or single media pollution prevention, control 
and abatement and related activities, including activities pursuant to 
the provisions set forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and 
for making grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate 
matter monitoring and data collection activities: Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended, the limitation on the amounts in a State water 
pollution control revolving fund that may be used by a State to 
administer the fund shall not apply to amounts included as principal in 
loans made by such fund in fiscal year 2000 and prior years where such 
amounts represent costs of administering the fund, or by the State of 
New York for fiscal year 2000 and prior years, costs of capitalizing the 
fund, to the extent that such amounts are or were deemed reasonable by 
the Administrator, accounted for separately from other assets in the 
fund, and used for eligible purposes of the fund, including 
administration, or, by the State of New York for fiscal year 2000 and 
prior years, for capitalization of the fund: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding <<NOTE: 33 USC 1377 note.>>  section 518(f ) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Administrator is authorized to 
use the amounts appropriated for any fiscal year under section 319 of 
that Act to make grants to Indian tribes pursuant to section 319(h) and 
518(e) of that Act: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, in the case of a publicly owned treatment works in the 
District of Columbia, the Federal share of grants awarded under title II 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, beginning October 1, 1999 
and continuing through September 30, 2001, shall be 80 percent of the 
cost of construction, and all grants made to such publicly owned 
treatment works in the District of Columbia may include an advance of 
allowance under section 201(l)(2): Provided further, That the $2,200,000 
appropriated in Public Law 105-276 in accordance with House Report No. 
105-769, for a grant to the Charleston, Utah Water Conservancy District, 
as amended by Public Law 106-31, shall be awarded to Wasatch County, 
Utah, for water and sewer needs: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading in Public Law

[[Page 113 STAT. 1084]]

105-276 for the City of Fairbanks, Alaska, water system improvements 
shall instead be for the Matanuska-Susitna Borough, Alaska, water and 
sewer improvements: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all claims for principal and interest registered 
through grant dispute AA-91-AD34 (05-90-AD09) or any other such dispute 
hereafter filed by the Environmental Protection Agency relative to water 
pollution control center and sewer system improvement grants numbers C-
390996-01, C-390996-2, and C-390996-3 made in 1976 and 1977 are hereby 
resolved in favor of the grantee.

    The Environmental Protection Agency and the New York State 
Department of Environmental Conservation are authorized to award, from 
construction grant reallotments to the State of New York of previously 
appropriated funds, supplemental grant assistance to Nassau County, New 
York, for additional odor control at the Bay Park and Cedar Creek 
wastewater treatment plants, notwithstanding initiation of construction 
or prior State Revolving Fund funding. Nassau County may elect to accept 
a combined lump-sum of $15,000,000, paid in advance of construction, in 
lieu of a 75 percent entitlement, to minimize grant and project 
administration.

                    Executive Office of the President

                 office of science and technology policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 and 6671), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, not to exceed $2,500 for official reception 
and representation expenses, and rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia, $5,108,000.

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the Council 
on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality pursuant to 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Environmental Quality 
Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, 
$2,827,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
no funds other than those appropriated under this heading shall be used 
for or by the Council on Environmental Quality and Office of 
Environmental Quality: Provided further, That <<NOTE: President. 42 USC 
4342 note.>>  notwithstanding section 202 of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1970, the Council shall consist of one member, appointed 
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, 
serving as chairman and exercising all powers, functions, and duties of 
the Council.

                  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                       office of inspector general

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1085]]

as amended, $33,666,000, to be derived from the Bank Insurance Fund, the 
Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$300,000,000, and, notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 5203, to remain available 
until expended, of which not to exceed $2,900,000 may be transferred to 
``Emergency Management Planning and Assistance'' for the consolidated 
emergency management performance grant program: Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading in this and prior appropriations 
Acts and under section 404 of the Stafford Act to the State of 
California, $2,000,000 shall be for a pilot project of seismic retrofit 
technology at California State University, San Bernardino; $6,000,000 
shall be for a seismic retrofit project at Loma Linda University 
Hospital; and $2,000,000 shall be for a seismic retrofit project at the 
University of Redlands, Redlands, California: Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading in this and prior 
appropriations Acts and under section 404 of the Stafford Act to the 
State of Florida, $1,000,000 shall be for a hurricane protection project 
for the St. Petersburg campus of South Florida University, and 
$2,500,000 shall be for a windstorm simulation project at Florida 
International University, Miami: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading in this and prior appropriations Acts 
and under section 404 of the Stafford Act to the State of North 
Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be for a logistical staging area concept 
demonstration involving warehouse facilities at the Stanly County 
Airport: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading in this and prior appropriations Acts and under section 404 of 
the Stafford Act to the State of Louisiana, $500,000 shall be for wave 
monitoring buoys in the Gulf of Mexico off the Louisiana coast.
    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief'', $2,480,425,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

             disaster assistance direct loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,295,000, as authorized by section 
319 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That these

[[Page 113 STAT. 1086]]

funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $420,000.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, including hire 
and purchase of motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343; 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; expenses of attendance 
of cooperating officials and individuals at meetings concerned with the 
work of emergency preparedness; transportation in connection with the 
continuity of Government programs to the same extent and in the same 
manner as permitted the Secretary of a Military Department under 10 
U.S.C. 2632; and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $180,000,000.

                     office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $8,015,000.

              emergency management planning and assistance

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out 
activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Act of 1977, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), the Federal 
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 
2061 et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 404-405), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 
1978, $267,000,000: Provided, That for purposes of pre-disaster 
mitigation pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5131(b) and (c) and 42 U.S.C. 5196(e) 
and (i), $25,000,000 of the funds made available under this heading 
shall be available until expended for project <<NOTE: Effective date. 42 
USC 5195 note.>>  grants: Provided further, That beginning in fiscal 
year 2000 and each fiscal year thereafter, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Director of FEMA is authorized to provide 
assistance from funds appropriated under this heading, subject to terms 
and conditions as the Director of FEMA shall establish, to any State for 
multi-hazard preparedness and mitigation through consolidated emergency 
management performance <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  grants: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, FEMA is authorized to 
and shall extend its cooperative agreement for the Jones County, 
Mississippi Emergency Operating Center, and the funds which were 
obligated as Federal matching funds for that Center shall remain 
available for expenditure until September 30, 2001.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1087]]

                radiological emergency preparedness fund

    The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2000, as 
authorized by Public Law 105-276, shall not be less than 100 percent of 
the amounts anticipated by FEMA necessary for its radiological emergency 
preparedness program for the next fiscal year. The methodology for 
assessment and collection of fees shall be fair and equitable; and shall 
reflect costs of providing such services, including administrative costs 
of collecting such fees. Fees received pursuant to this section shall be 
deposited in the Fund as offsetting collections and will become 
available for authorized purposes on October 1, 2000, and remain 
available until expended.

                   emergency food and shelter program

    To carry out an emergency food and shelter program pursuant to title 
III of Public Law 100-77, as amended, $110,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That total administrative costs shall not 
exceed 3\1/2\ percent of the total appropriation.

                      flood map modernization fund

    For necessary expenses pursuant to section 1360 of the National 
Flood Insurance Act of 1968, $5,000,000, and such additional sums as may 
be provided by State or local governments or other political 
subdivisions for cost shared mapping activities under section 1360(f 
)(2), to remain available until expended.

                   national insurance development fund

    Notwithstanding the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 1735d(b) and 12 U.S.C. 
1749bbb-13(b)(6), any indebtedness of the Director of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency resulting from the Director borrowing sums 
under such sections before the date of the enactment of this Act to 
carry out title XII of the National Housing Act shall be canceled, and 
the Director shall not be obligated to repay such sums or any interest 
thereon, and no further interest shall accrue on such sums.

                      national flood insurance fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended, not to exceed 
$24,333,000 for salaries and expenses associated with flood mitigation 
and flood insurance operations, and not to exceed $78,710,000 for flood 
mitigation, including up to $20,000,000 for expenses under section 1366 
of the National Flood Insurance Act, which amount shall be available for 
transfer to the National Flood Mitigation Fund until September 30, 2001. 
In fiscal year 2000, no funds in excess of: (1) $47,000,000 for 
operating expenses; (2) $456,427,000 for agents' commissions and taxes; 
and (3) $50,000,000 for interest on Treasury borrowings shall be 
available from the National Flood Insurance Fund without prior notice to 
the Committees on Appropriations. For fiscal year 2000, flood insurance 
rates shall not exceed the level authorized by the National Flood 
Insurance Reform Act of 1994.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1088]]

    Section 1309(a)(2) of the National Flood Insurance Act (42 U.S.C. 
4016(a)(2)), as amended by Public Law 104-208, is further amended by 
striking ``1999'' and inserting ``2000''.
    The first sentence of section 1376(c) of the National Flood 
Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4127(c)), is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 1999'' and inserting ``September 30, 2000''.

                     national flood mitigation fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Notwithstanding sections 1366(b)(3)(B)-(C) and 1366(f ) of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, $20,000,000 to remain 
available until September 30, 2001, for activities designed to reduce 
the risk of flood damage to structures pursuant to such Act, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the National Flood Insurance Fund.

                     General Services Administration

                    consumer information center fund

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Information Center, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $2,622,000, to be deposited into 
the Consumer Information Center Fund: Provided, That the appropriations, 
revenues, and collections deposited into the fund shall be available for 
necessary expenses of Consumer Information Center activities in the 
aggregate amount of $7,500,000. Appropriations, revenues, and 
collections accruing to this fund during fiscal year 2000 in excess of 
$7,500,000 shall remain in the fund and shall not be available for 
expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of human space flight research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, and services; maintenance; 
construction of facilities including repair, rehabilitation, and 
modification of real and personal property, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; space flight, 
spacecraft control and communications activities including operations, 
production, and services; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $5,510,900,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That $40,000,000 of 
the amount provided in this paragraph shall be available to the space 
shuttle program only for preparations necessary to carry out a life and 
micro-gravity science mission, to be flown between STS-107 and December 
2001.

                   science, aeronautics and technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics and technology research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, and 
services; maintenance; construction of facilities

[[Page 113 STAT. 1089]]

including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of real and personal 
property, and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as 
authorized by law; space flight, spacecraft control and communications 
activities including operations, production, and services; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft, $5,606,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                             mission support

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in carrying out 
mission support for human space flight programs and science, 
aeronautical, and technology programs, including research operations and 
support; space communications activities including operations, 
production and services; maintenance; construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, and modification of facilities, minor 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, environmental compliance and restoration, 
and acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law; 
program management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; travel 
expenses; purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of 
mission and administrative aircraft; not to exceed $35,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and purchase (not to exceed 33 
for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$2,515,100,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $20,000,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, when 
any activity has been initiated by the incurrence of obligations for 
construction of facilities as authorized by law, such amount available 
for such activity shall remain available until expended. This provision 
does not apply to the amounts appropriated in ``Mission support'' 
pursuant to the authorization for repair, rehabilitation and 
modification of facilities, minor construction of new facilities and 
additions to existing facilities, and facility planning and design.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Human space flight'', ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', or ``Mission support'' by this appropriations Act, the 
amounts appropriated for construction of facilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 2002.
    Notwithstanding the limitation on the availability of funds 
appropriated for ``Mission support'' and ``Office of Inspector 
General'', amounts made available by this Act for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall remain available until September 30, 2000 and may 
be used to enter into contracts for training, investigations,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1090]]

costs associated with personnel relocation, and for other services, to 
be provided during the next fiscal year.
    Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the joint 
explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying this 
Act, no part of the funds appropriated for ``Human space flight'' may be 
used for the development of the International Space Station in excess of 
the amounts set forth in the budget estimates submitted as part of the 
budget request for fiscal year 2000.

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

     During fiscal year 2000, administrative expenses of the Central 
Liquidity Facility shall not exceed $257,000: Provided, That $1,000,000, 
together with amounts of principal and interest on loans repaid, to be 
available until expended, is available for loans to community 
development credit unions.

                       National Science Foundation

                     research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875), and the Act to 
establish a National Medal of Science (42 U.S.C. 1880-1881); services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; $2,966,000,000, of which not to exceed $253,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for Polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational 
and science support and logistical and other related activities for the 
United States Antarctic program; the balance to remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That receipts for scientific support 
services and materials furnished by the National Research Centers and 
other National Science Foundation supported research facilities may be 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That to the extent 
that the amount appropriated is less than the total amount authorized to 
be appropriated for included program activities, all amounts, including 
floors and ceilings, specified in the authorizing Act for those program 
activities or their subactivities shall be reduced proportionally: 
Provided further, That $60,000,000 of the funds available under this 
heading shall be made available for a comprehensive research initiative 
on plant genomes for economically significant crop: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Domain name.>>  none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available to the National Science Foundation in this or any prior 
Act may be obligated or expended by the National Science Foundation to 
enter into or extend a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for the 
support of administering the domain name and numbering system of the 
Internet after September 30, 1998: Provided further, That no funds in 
this or any other Act shall be used to acquire or lease a research 
vessel with ice-breaking capability built or retrofitted by a shipyard 
located in a foreign country if such a vessel of United States origin 
can be obtained at a cost no more than 50 per centum above that of the 
least expensive technically acceptable foreign vessel bid: Provided 
further, That, in determining the cost of such a vessel, such cost be 
increased

[[Page 113 STAT. 1091]]

by the amount of any subsidies or financing provided by a foreign 
government (or instrumentality thereof ) to such vessel's construction: 
Provided further, That if the vessel contracted for pursuant to the 
foregoing is not available for the 2002-2003 austral summer Antarctic 
season, a vessel of any origin may be leased for a period of not to 
exceed 120 days for that season and each season thereafter until 
delivery of the new vessel.

                        major research equipment

    For necessary expenses of major construction projects pursuant to 
the National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, including 
award-related travel, $95,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science and engineering 
education and human resources programs and activities pursuant to the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-
1875), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, award-related 
travel, and rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$696,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That to the extent that the amount of this appropriation is less than 
the total amount authorized to be appropriated for included program 
activities, all amounts, including floors and ceilings, specified in the 
authorizing Act for those program activities or their subactivities 
shall be reduced proportionally: Provided further, That $10,000,000 
shall be available for the purpose of establishing an office of 
innovation partnerships.

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1861-1875); 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; reimbursement of 
the General Services Administration for security guard services; 
$149,000,000: Provided, That contracts may be entered into under 
``Salaries and expenses'' in fiscal year 2000 for maintenance and 
operation of facilities, and for other services, to be provided during 
the next fiscal year.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $5,450,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                  Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $75,000,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1092]]

                        Selective Service System

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; and not to exceed $1,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $24,000,000: Provided, 
That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt this 
appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever he deems 
such action to be necessary in the interest of national defense: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
expended for or in connection with the induction of any person into the 
Armed Forces of the United States.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401. Where appropriations in titles I, II, and III of this Act 
are expendable for travel expenses and no specific limitation has been 
placed thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not exceed 
the amounts set forth therefore in the budget estimates submitted for 
the appropriations: Provided, That this provision does not apply to 
accounts that do not contain an object classification for travel: 
Provided further, That this section shall not apply to travel performed 
by uncompensated officials of local boards and appeal boards of the 
Selective Service System; to travel performed directly in connection 
with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs; to travel performed in connection with major disasters 
or emergencies declared or determined by the President under the 
provisions of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act; to travel performed by the Offices of Inspector General 
in connection with audits and investigations; or to payments to 
interagency motor pools where separately set forth in the budget 
schedules: Provided further, That if appropriations in titles I, II, and 
III exceed the amounts set forth in budget estimates initially submitted 
for such appropriations, the expenditures for travel may correspondingly 
exceed the amounts therefore set forth in the estimates in the same 
proportion.
    Sec. 402. Appropriations and funds available for the administrative 
expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
Selective Service System shall be available in the current fiscal year 
for purchase of uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 403. Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a contract 
or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for services and 
facilities of Federal National Mortgage Association, Government National 
Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal 
Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any member thereof, Federal 
Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within the meaning of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1831).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1093]]

    Sec. 404. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 405. No funds appropriated by this Act may be expended--
            (1) pursuant to a certification of an officer or employee of 
        the United States unless--
                    (A) such certification is accompanied by, or is part 
                of, a voucher or abstract which describes the payee or 
                payees and the items or services for which such 
                expenditure is being made; or
                    (B) the expenditure of funds pursuant to such 
                certification, and without such a voucher or abstract, 
                is specifically authorized by law; and
            (2) unless such expenditure is subject to audit by the 
        General Accounting Office or is specifically exempt by law from 
        such audit.

    Sec. 406. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency may be expended for the transportation of any officer or 
employee of such department or agency between their domicile and their 
place of employment, with the exception of any officer or employee 
authorized such transportation under 31 U.S.C. 1344 or 5 U.S.C. 7905.
    Sec. 407. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used for 
payment, through grants or contracts, to recipients that do not share in 
the cost of conducting research resulting from proposals not 
specifically solicited by the Government: Provided, That the extent of 
cost sharing by the recipient shall reflect the mutuality of interest of 
the grantee or contractor and the Government in the research.
    Sec. 408. None of the funds in this Act may be used, directly or 
through grants, to pay or to provide reimbursement for payment of the 
salary of a consultant (whether retained by the Federal Government or a 
grantee) at more than the daily equivalent of the rate paid for level IV 
of the Executive Schedule, unless specifically authorized by law.
    Sec. 409. None of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
pay the expenses of, or otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties 
intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Nothing herein 
affects the authority of the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant 
to section 7 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2056 et 
seq.).
    Sec. 410. Except <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information. Records.>>  
as otherwise provided under existing law, or under an existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to an existing law, the obligation or expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for contracts for any consulting 
service shall be limited to contracts which are: (1) a matter of public 
record and available for public inspection; and (2) thereafter included 
in a publicly available list of all contracts entered into within 24 
months prior to the date on which the list is made available to the 
public and of all contracts on which performance has not been completed 
by such date. The list required by the preceding sentence shall be 
updated quarterly and shall include a narrative description of the work 
to be performed under each such contract.

    Sec. 411. Except as otherwise provided by law, no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be obligated or expended by 
any executive agency, as referred to in the Office of Federal 
Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 401 et seq.), for

[[Page 113 STAT. 1094]]

a contract for services unless such executive agency: (1) has awarded 
and entered into such contract in full compliance with such Act and the 
regulations promulgated thereunder; and (2) requires any report prepared 
pursuant to such contract, including plans, evaluations, studies, 
analyses and manuals, and any report prepared by the agency which is 
substantially derived from or substantially includes any report prepared 
pursuant to such contract, to contain information concerning: (A) the 
contract pursuant to which the report was prepared; and (B) the 
contractor who prepared the report pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 412. Except as otherwise provided in section 406, none of the 
funds provided in this Act to any department or agency shall be 
obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other 
personal servants to any officer or employee of such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 413. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to procure passenger 
automobiles as defined in 15 U.S.C. 2001 with an EPA estimated miles per 
gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon.
    Sec. 414. None <<NOTE: Reports.>>  of the funds appropriated in 
title I of this Act shall be used to enter into any new lease of real 
property if the estimated annual rental is more than $300,000 unless the 
Secretary submits, in writing, a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Congress and a period of 30 days has expired 
following the date on which the report is received by the Committees on 
Appropriations.

    Sec. 415. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In <<NOTE: Notice.>>  providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

    Sec. 416. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
implement any cap on reimbursements to grantees for indirect costs, 
except as published in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    Sec. 417. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2000 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 418. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 419. Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, are hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Act as may be necessary in 
carrying out the programs set forth in the budget for 2000 for such 
corporation or agency except

[[Page 113 STAT. 1095]]

as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of these 
corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage purchase 
commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this Act 
(unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance provided 
for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this proviso 
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty operations of 
these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases are necessary 
to protect the financial interest of the United States Government.
    Sec. 420. Notwithstanding section 320(g) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1330(g)), funds made available pursuant 
to authorization under such section for fiscal year 2000 may be used for 
implementing comprehensive conservation and management plans.
    Sec. 421. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term 
``qualified student loan'' with respect to national service education 
awards shall mean any loan made directly to a student by the Alaska 
Commission on Postsecondary Education, in addition to other meanings 
under section 148(b)(7) of the National and Community Service Act.
    Sec. 422. It is the sense of the Congress that, along with health 
care, housing, education, and other benefits, the presence of an honor 
guard at a veteran's funeral is a benefit that a veteran has earned, 
and, therefore, the executive branch should provide funeral honor 
details for the funerals of veterans when requested, in accordance with 
law.
    Sec. 423. Notwithstanding any other law, funds made available by 
this or any other Act or previous Acts for the United States/Mexico 
Foundation for Science may be used for the endowment of such Foundation: 
Provided, That funds from the United States Government shall be matched 
in equal amounts with funds from Mexico: Provided further, That the 
accounts of such Foundation shall be subject to United States Government 
administrative and audit requirements concerning grants and requirements 
concerning cost principles for nonprofit <<NOTE: Nonproft 
organization. 7 USC 3292a note.>>  organizations: Provided further, That 
the United States/Mexico Foundation for Science is renamed the ``George 
E. Brown United States/Mexico Foundation for Science''.

    Sec. 424. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to carry out Executive Order No. 13083.
    Sec. 425. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, no part of any 
appropriation for the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall 
be available for any activity in excess of amounts set forth in the 
budget estimates submitted for the appropriations.
    Sec. 426. Except in the case of entities that are funded solely with 
Federal funds or any natural persons that are funded under this Act, 
none of the funds in this Act shall be used for the planning or 
execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise 
compensate, non-Federal parties to lobby or litigate in respect to 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act. A chief executive officer 
of any entity receiving funds under this Act shall certify that none of 
these funds have been used to engage in the lobbying of the Federal 
Government or in litigation against the United States unless authorized 
under existing law.
    Sec. 427. Law Enforcement Agencies Not Included as Owner or 
Operator. Section 101(20)(D) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
9601(20)(D)) is amended by inserting ``through seizure

[[Page 113 STAT. 1096]]

or otherwise in connection with law enforcement activity'' before 
``involuntary'' the first place it appears.
    Sec. 428. No part of any funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for normal and 
recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or 
propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of any 
kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 429. The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  comment period on the proposed 
rules related to section 303(d) of the Clean Water Act published at 64 
Federal Register 46012 and 46058 (August 23, 1999) shall be extended 
from October 22, 1999, for a period of 90 additional calendar days.

    Sec. 430. Section 4(a) of the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 
777c(a)), is amended in the second sentence by striking ``1999'' and 
inserting ``2000''.
    Sec. 431. Promulgation <<NOTE: Reports.>>  of Stormwater 
Regulations. (a) Stormwater Regulations.--The Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall not promulgate the Phase II 
stormwater regulations until the Administrator submits to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report containing--
            (1) an in-depth impact analysis on the effect the final 
        regulations will have on urban, suburban, and rural local 
        governments subject to the regulations, including an estimate 
        of--
                    (A) the costs of complying with the six minimum 
                control measures described in the regulations; and
                    (B) the costs resulting from the lowering of the 
                construction threshold from 5 acres to 1 acre;
            (2) an explanation of the rationale of the Administrator for 
        lowering the construction site threshold from 5 acres to 1 acre, 
        including--
                    (A) an explanation, in light of recent court 
                decisions, of why a 1-acre measure is any less 
                arbitrarily determined than a 5-acre measure; and
                    (B) all qualitative information used in determining 
                an acre threshold for a construction site;
            (3) documentation demonstrating that stormwater runoff is 
        generally a problem in communities with populations of 50,000 to 
        100,000 (including an explanation of why the coverage of the 
        regulation is based on a census-determined population instead of 
        a water quality threshold); and
            (4) information that supports the position of the 
        Administrator that the Phase II stormwater program should be 
        administered as part of the National Pollutant Discharge 
        Elimination System under section 402 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342).

    (b) Phase <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  I Regulations.--No later 
than 120 days after the enactment of this Act, the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall submit to the Environment and Public Works 
Committee of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report containing a 
detailed explanation of the impact, if any, that the Phase I program has 
had in improving water quality in the United States (including

[[Page 113 STAT. 1097]]

a description of specific measures that have been successful and those 
that have been unsuccessful).

    (c) Federal Register.--The reports described in subsections (a) and 
(b) shall be published in the Federal Register for public comment.
    Sec. 432. Pesticide Tolerance Fees. None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act shall be used to promulgate a 
final regulation to implement changes in the payment of pesticide 
tolerance processing fees as proposed at 64 Fed. Reg. 31040, or any 
similar proposals. The Environmental Protection Agency may proceed with 
the development of such a rule.
    Sec. 433. Commercial Space Launch Indemnification Extension. Section 
70113(f ) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``December 31, 1999'', and inserting ``December 31, 2000''.
    Sec. 434. Space <<NOTE: 42 USC 14711 note.>>  Station Commercial 
Development 
Demonstration Program. (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to 
establish a demonstration regarding the commercial feasibility and 
economic viability of private sector business operations involving the 
International Space Station and its related infrastructure. The goal 
will be furthered by the early use of the International Space Station by 
United States commercial entities committing private capital to 
commercial enterprises on the International Space Station. 
In <<NOTE: Publication.>>  conjunction with this demonstration program, 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shall establish 
and publish a price policy designed to eliminate price uncertainty for 
those planning to utilize the International Space Station and its 
related facilities for United States commercial use.

    (b) Use of Receipts for Commercial Use.--Any receipts collected by 
NASA from the commercial use of the International Space Station shall 
first be used to offset any costs incurred by NASA in support of the 
United States commercial use of the International Space Station. Any 
receipts collected in excess of the costs identified pursuant to the 
prior sentence may be retained by NASA for use without fiscal year 
limitation in promoting the commercial use of the International Space 
Station.
    (c) Report.--NASA <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  shall submit an annual report 
to the 
Congress that identifies all receipts that are collected under this 
section, the use of the receipts and the status of the demonstration. 
NASA shall submit a final report on the status of the demonstration, 
including any recommendation for expansion, within 120 days of the 
completion of the assembly of the International Space Station or the end 
of fiscal year 2004, whichever is earlier.

    (d) Definitions.--As used in this section, the term ``United States 
commercial use'' means private commercial projects that are designed to 
benefit the United States through the sales of goods or services or the 
creation of jobs, or both.
    (e) Termination.--The <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  demonstration 
program established under this section shall apply to United States 
commercial use agreements that are entered into prior to the date of the 
completion of the International Space Station or the end of fiscal year 
2004, whichever is earlier.

    Sec. 435. Insurance; Indemnification; Liability. (a) Amendment.--The 
National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (42 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 308 the following new section:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1098]]

``experimental <<NOTE: 42 usc 2458c.>>  aerospace vehicle

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may provide liability insurance 
for, or indemnification to, the developer of an experimental aerospace 
vehicle developed or used in execution of an agreement between the 
Administration and the developer.
    ``(b) Terms and Conditions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the insurance and indemnification provided by the 
        Administration under subsection (a) to a developer shall be 
        provided on the same terms and conditions as insurance and 
        indemnification is provided by the Administration under section 
        308 of this Act to the user of a space vehicle.
            ``(2) Insurance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A developer shall obtain 
                liability insurance or demonstrate financial 
                responsibility in amounts to compensate for the maximum 
                probable loss from claims by--
                          ``(i) a third party for death, bodily injury, 
                      or property damage, or loss resulting from an 
                      activity carried out in connection with the 
                      development or use of an experimental aerospace 
                      vehicle; and
                          ``(ii) the United States Government for damage 
                      or loss to Government property resulting from such 
                      an activity.
                    ``(B) Maximum required.--The Administrator shall 
                determine the amount of insurance required, but, except 
                as provided in subparagraph (C), that amount shall not 
                be greater than the amount required under section 
                70112(a)(3) of title 49, United States Code, for a 
                launch. The Administrator <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
                publication. Notice. Deadline.>>  shall publish notice 
                of the Administrator's determination and the applicable 
                amount or amounts in the Federal Register within 10 days 
                after making the determination.
                    ``(C) Increase in dollar amounts.--The Administrator 
                may increase the dollar amounts set forth in section 
                70112(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United States Code, for the 
                purpose of applying that section under this section to a 
                developer after consultation with the Comptroller 
                General and such experts and consultants as may be 
                appropriate, and after publishing notice of the increase 
                in the Federal Register not less than 180 days before 
                the increase goes into effect. The <<NOTE: Public 
                information. Records.>>  Administrator shall make 
                available for public inspection, not later than the date 
                of publication of such notice, a complete record of any 
                correspondence received by the Administration, and a 
                transcript of any meetings in which the Administration 
                participated, regarding the proposed increase.
                    ``(D) Safety review required before administrator 
                provides insurance.--The Administrator may not provide 
                liability insurance or indemnification under subsection 
                (a) unless the developer establishes to the satisfaction 
                of the Administrator that appropriate safety procedures 
                and practices are being followed in the development of 
                the experimental aerospace vehicle.
            ``(3) No indemnification without cross-waiver.--
        Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Administrator may not

[[Page 113 STAT. 1099]]

        indemnify a developer of an experimental aerospace vehicle under 
        this section unless there is an agreement between the 
        Administration and the developer described in subsection (c).
            ``(4) Application of certain procedures.--If the 
        Administrator requests additional appropriations to make 
        payments under this section, like the payments that may be made 
        under section 308(b) of this Act, then the request for those 
        appropriations shall be made in accordance with the procedures 
        established by subsections (d) and (e) of section 70113 of title 
        49, United States Code.

    ``(c) Cross-Waivers.--
            ``(1) Administrator authorized to waive.--The Administrator, 
        on behalf of the United States, and its departments, agencies, 
        and related entities, may reciprocally waive claims with a 
        developer or cooperating party and with the related entities of 
        that developer or cooperating party under which each party to 
        the waiver agrees to be responsible, and agrees to ensure that 
        its own related entities are responsible, for damage or loss to 
        its property for which it is responsible, or for losses 
        resulting from any injury or death sustained by its own 
        employees or agents, as a result of activities connected to the 
        agreement or use of the experimental aerospace vehicle.
            ``(2) Limitations.--
                    ``(A) Claims.--A reciprocal waiver under paragraph 
                (1) may not preclude a claim by any natural person 
                (including, but not limited to, a natural person who is 
                an employee of the United States, the developer, the 
                cooperating party, or their respective subcontractors) 
                or that natural person's estate, survivors, or subrogees 
                for injury or death, except with respect to a subrogee 
                that is a party to the waiver or has otherwise agreed to 
                be bound by the terms of the waiver.
                    ``(B) Liability for negligence.--A reciprocal waiver 
                under paragraph (1) may not absolve any party of 
                liability to any natural person (including, but not 
                limited to, a natural person who is an employee of the 
                United States, the developer, the cooperating party, or 
                their respective subcontractors) or such a natural 
                person's estate, survivors, or subrogees for negligence, 
                except with respect to a subrogee that is a party to the 
                waiver or has otherwise agreed to be bound by the terms 
                of the waiver.
                    ``(C) Indemnification for damages.--A reciprocal 
                waiver under paragraph (1) may not be used as the basis 
                of a claim by the Administration, or the developer or 
                cooperating party, for indemnification against the other 
                for damages paid to a natural person, or that natural 
                person's estate, survivors, or subrogees, for injury or 
                death sustained by that natural person as a result of 
                activities connected to the agreement or use of the 
                experimental aerospace vehicle.
            ``(3) Effect on previous waivers.--Subsection (c) applies to 
        any waiver of claims entered into by the Administration without 
        regard to whether it was entered into before, on, or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.

    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Cooperating party.--The term `cooperating party' means 
        any person who enters into an agreement with the

[[Page 113 STAT. 1100]]

        Administration for the performance of cooperative scientific, 
        aeronautical, or space activities to carry out the purposes of 
        this Act.
            ``(2) Developer.--The term `developer' means a United States 
        person (other than a natural person) who--
                    ``(A) is a party to an agreement with the 
                Administration for the purpose of developing new 
                technology for an experimental aerospace vehicle;
                    ``(B) owns or provides property to be flown or 
                situated on that vehicle; or
                    ``(C) employs a natural person to be flown on that 
                vehicle.
            ``(3) Experimental aerospace vehicle.--The term 
        `experimental aerospace vehicle' means an object intended to be 
        flown in, or launched into, orbital or suborbital flight for the 
        purpose of demonstrating technologies necessary for a reusable 
        launch vehicle, developed under an agreement between the 
        Administration and a developer.
            ``(4) Related entity.--The term `related entity' includes a 
        contractor or subcontractor at any tier, a supplier, a grantee, 
        and an investigator or detailee.

    ``(e) Relationship to Other Laws.--
            ``(1) Section 308.--This section does not apply to any 
        object, transaction, or operation to which section 308 of this 
        Act applies.
            ``(2) Chapter 701 of title 49, united states code.--The 
        Administrator may not provide indemnification to a developer 
        under this section for launches subject to license under section 
        70117(g)(1) of title 49, United States Code.''.

    (b) Repeal.--Section 431 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law <<NOTE: 42 USC 2458b note.>>  105-276) is 
repealed.

 TITLE V--PRESERVATION <<NOTE: Preserving Affordable Housing for Senior 
   Citizens and Families into the 21st Century Act.>>  OF AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This <<NOTE: 12 USC 1701 note.>>  title may be 
cited as the ``Preserving Affordable Housing for Senior Citizens and 
Families into the 21st Century Act''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this title is as 
follows:

Sec. 501. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 502. Regulations.
Sec. 503. Effective date.

 Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations for Supportive Housing for 
                the Elderly and Persons With Disabilities

Sec. 511. Supportive housing for elderly persons.
Sec. 512. Supportive housing for persons with disabilities.
Sec. 513. Service coordinators and congregate services for elderly and 
           disabled housing.

Subtitle B--Expanding Housing Opportunities for the Elderly and Persons 
                            With Disabilities

Sec. 521. Study of debt forgiveness for section 202 loans.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1101]]

Sec. 522. Grants for conversion of elderly housing to assisted living 
           facilities.
Sec. 523. Use of section 8 assistance for assisted living facilities.
Sec. 524. Size limitation for projects for persons with disabilities.
Sec. 525. Commission on Affordable Housing and Health Care Facility 
           Needs in the 21st Century.

    Subtitle C--Renewal of Expiring Rental Assistance Contracts and 
                         Protection of Residents

Sec. 531. Renewal of expiring contracts and enhanced vouchers for 
           project 
           residents.
Sec. 532. Section 236 assistance.
Sec. 533. Rehabilitation of assisted housing.
Sec. 534. Technical assistance.
Sec. 535. Termination of section 8 contract and duration of renewal 
           contract.
Sec. 536. Eligibility of residents of flexible subsidy projects for 
           enhanced vouchers.
Sec. 537. Enhanced disposition authority.
Sec. 538. Unified enhanced voucher authority.

SEC. 502. <<NOTE: 12 USC 1701q note.>>  REGULATIONS.

    The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall issue any 
regulations to carry out this title and the amendments made by this 
title that the Secretary determines may or will affect tenants of 
federally assisted housing only after notice and opportunity for public 
comment in accordance with the procedure under section 553 of title 5, 
United States Code, applicable to substantive rules (notwithstanding 
subsections (a)(2), (b)(B), and (d)(3) of such section). 
Notice <<NOTE: Notice. Federal Register, publication.>>  of such 
proposed rulemaking shall be provided by publication in the Federal 
Register. In issuing such regulations, the Secretary shall take such 
actions as may be necessary to ensure that such tenants are notified of, 
and provided an opportunity to participate in, the rulemaking, as 
required by such section 553.

SEC. 503. <<NOTE: 12 USC 1701q note.>>  EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--The provisions of this title and the amendments 
made by this title are effective as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act, unless such provisions or amendments specifically provide for 
effectiveness or applicability upon another date certain.
    (b) Effect of Regulatory Authority.--Any authority in this title or 
the amendments made by this title to issue regulations, and any specific 
requirement to issue regulations by a date certain, may not be construed 
to affect the effectiveness or applicability of the provisions of this 
title or the amendments made by this title under such provisions and 
amendments and subsection (a) of this section.

 Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations for Supportive Housing for 
                                  the 
                  Elderly and Persons With Disabilities

SEC. 511. SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR ELDERLY PERSONS.

    Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for providing assistance under this section $710,000,000 
for fiscal year 2000.''.

SEC. 512. SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.

    Section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act 
(42 U.S.C. 8013) is amended--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1102]]

            (1) by redesignating subsection (m) as subsection (n); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (l) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for providing assistance under this section $201,000,000 
for fiscal year 2000.''.

SEC. 513. SERVICE COORDINATORS AND CONGREGATE SERVICES FOR ELDERLY AND 
            DISABLED HOUSING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations for Federally Assisted 
Housing.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2000 for the 
following purposes:
            (1) Grants for service coordinators for certain 
        federally assisted multifamily housing.--For grants under 
        section 676 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 
        (42 U.S.C. 13632) for providing service coordinators.
            (2) Congregate services for federally assisted housing.--For 
        contracts under section 802 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8011) to provide congregate 
        services programs for eligible residents of eligible housing 
        projects under subparagraphs (B) through (D) of subsection 
        (k)(6) of such section.

    (b) Public Housing.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development such sums as may be necessary 
for fiscal year 2000 for grants for use only for activities described in 
paragraph (2) of section 34(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437z-6(b)(2)) for renewal of all grants made in prior fiscal 
years for providing service coordinators and congregate services for the 
elderly and disabled in public housing.

Subtitle B--Expanding Housing Opportunities for the Elderly and Persons 
                            With Disabilities

SEC. 521. STUDY OF DEBT FORGIVENESS FOR SECTION 202 LOANS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
shall conduct an analysis of the net impact on the Federal budget 
deficit or surplus of making available, on a one-time basis, to sponsors 
of projects assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (as in 
effect before the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
Housing Act), forgiveness of any indebtedness to the Secretary relating 
to any remaining principal and interest under loans made under such 
section, together with a dollar-for-dollar reduction in the amount of 
rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 or other rental assistance provided for such project. Such analysis 
shall take into consideration the full cost of future appropriations for 
rental assistance under such section 8 expected to be provided if such 
debt forgiveness does not take place, notwithstanding current budgetary 
treatment of such actions pursuant to the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974.
    (b) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than the expiration of 
the 3-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the

[[Page 113 STAT. 1103]]

Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit a report to the 
Congress containing the quantitative results of the analysis and an 
enumeration of any project or administrative benefits of such actions.

SEC. 522. GRANTS FOR CONVERSION OF ELDERLY HOUSING TO ASSISTED LIVING 
            FACILITIES.

    Title II of the Housing Act of 1959 is amended by inserting after 
section 202a (12 U.S.C. 1701q-1) the following new section:

``SEC. 202b. GRANTS <<NOTE: 12 USC 1701q-2.>>  FOR CONVERSION OF ELDERLY 
            HOUSING TO ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES.

    ``(a) Grant Authority.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may make grants in accordance with this section to owners of 
eligible projects described in subsection (b) for one or both of the 
following activities:
            ``(1) Repairs.--Substantial capital repairs to projects that 
        are needed to rehabilitate, modernize, or retrofit aging 
        structures, common areas, or individual dwelling units.
            ``(2) Conversion.--Activities designed to convert dwelling 
        units in the eligible project to assisted living facilities for 
        elderly persons.

    ``(b) Eligible Projects.--An eligible project described in this 
subsection is a multifamily housing project that is--
            ``(1)(A) described in subparagraph (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), 
        or (G) of section 683(2) of the Housing and Community 
        Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13641(2)), or (B) only to the 
        extent amounts of the Department of Agriculture are made 
        available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for 
        such grants under this section for such projects, subject to a 
        loan made or insured under section 515 of the Housing Act of 
        1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485);
            ``(2) owned by a private nonprofit organization (as such 
        term is defined in section 202); and
            ``(3) designated primarily for occupancy by elderly persons.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection or this section, 
an unused or underutilized commercial property may be considered an 
eligible project under this subsection, except that the Secretary may 
not provide grants under this section for more than three such 
properties. For any such projects, any reference under this section to 
dwelling units shall be considered to refer to the premises of such 
properties.
    ``(c) Applications.--Applications <<NOTE: Procedures.>>  for grants 
under this section shall be submitted to the Secretary in accordance 
with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish. Such applications 
shall contain--
            ``(1) a description of the substantial capital repairs or 
        the proposed conversion activities for which a grant under this 
        section is requested;
            ``(2) the amount of the grant requested to complete the 
        substantial capital repairs or conversion activities;
            ``(3) a description of the resources that are expected to be 
        made available, if any, in conjunction with the grant under this 
        section; and
            ``(4) such other information or certifications that the 
        Secretary determines to be necessary or appropriate.

    ``(d) Funding for Services.--The Secretary may not make a grant 
under this section for conversion activities unless the

[[Page 113 STAT. 1104]]

application contains sufficient evidence, in the determination of the 
Secretary, of firm commitments for the funding of services to be 
provided in the assisted living facility, which may be provided by third 
parties.
    ``(e) Selection Criteria.--The Secretary shall select applications 
for grants under this section based upon selection criteria, which shall 
be established by the Secretary and shall include--
            ``(1) in the case of a grant for substantial capital 
        repairs, the extent to which the project to be repaired is in 
        need of such repair, including such factors as the age of 
        improvements to be repaired, and the impact on the health and 
        safety of residents of failure to make such repairs;
            ``(2) in the case of a grant for conversion activities, the 
        extent to which the conversion is likely to provide assisted 
        living facilities that are needed or are expected to be needed 
        by the categories of elderly persons that the assisted living 
        facility is intended to serve, with a special emphasis on very 
        low-income elderly persons who need assistance with activities 
        of daily living;
            ``(3) the inability of the applicant to fund the repairs or 
        conversion activities from existing financial resources, as 
        evidenced by the applicant's financial records, including assets 
        in the applicant's residual receipts account and reserves for 
        replacement account;
            ``(4) the extent to which the applicant has evidenced 
        community support for the repairs or conversion, by such 
        indicators as letters of support from the local community for 
        the repairs or conversion and financial contributions from 
        public and private sources;
            ``(5) in the case of a grant for conversion activities, the 
        extent to which the applicant demonstrates a strong commitment 
        to promoting the autonomy and independence of the elderly 
        persons that the assisted living facility is intended to serve;
            ``(6) in the case of a grant for conversion activities, the 
        quality, completeness, and managerial capability of providing 
        the services which the assisted living facility intends to 
        provide to elderly residents, especially in such areas as meals, 
        24-hour staffing, and on-site health care; and
            ``(7) such other criteria as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate to ensure that funds made available under this 
        section are used effectively.

    ``(f ) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            ``(1) the term `assisted living facility' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 232(b) of the National Housing Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 1715w(b)); and
            ``(2) the definitions in section 202(k) shall apply.

    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for providing grants under this section such sums as may be 
necessary for fiscal year 2000.''.

SEC. 523. USE OF SECTION 8 ASSISTANCE FOR ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES.

    (a) Voucher Assistance.--Section 8(o) of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(18) Rental assistance for assisted living facilities.--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1105]]

                    ``(A) In general.--A public housing agency may make 
                assistance payments on behalf of a family that uses an 
                assisted living facility as a principal place of 
                residence and that uses such supportive services made 
                available in the facility as the agency may require. 
                Such payments may be made only for covering costs of 
                rental of the dwelling unit in the assisted living 
                facility and not for covering any portion of the cost of 
                residing in such facility that is attributable to 
                service relating to assisted living.
                    ``(B) Rent calculation.--
                          ``(i) Charges included.--For assistance 
                      pursuant to this paragraph, the rent of the 
                      dwelling unit that is an assisted living facility 
                      with respect to which assistance payments are made 
                      shall include maintenance and management charges 
                      related to the dwelling unit and tenant-paid 
                      utilities. Such rent shall not include any charges 
                      attributable to services relating to assisted 
                      living.
                          ``(ii) Payment standard.--In determining the 
                      monthly assistance that may be paid under this 
                      paragraph on behalf of any family residing in an 
                      assisted living facility, the public housing 
                      agency shall utilize the payment standard 
                      established under paragraph (1), for the market 
                      area in which the assisted living facility is 
                      located, for the applicable size dwelling unit.
                          ``(iii) Monthly assistance payment.--The 
                      monthly assistance payment for a family assisted 
                      under this paragraph shall be determined in 
                      accordance with paragraph (2) (using the rent and 
                      payment standard for the dwelling unit as 
                      determined in accordance with this subsection).
                    ``(C) Definition.--For the purposes of this 
                paragraph, the term `assisted living facility' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 232(b) of the 
                National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715w(b)), except that 
                such a facility may be contained within a portion of a 
                larger multifamily housing project.''.

    (b) Project-Based Assistance.--Section 202b of the Housing Act of 
1959, as added by section 522 of this Act, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1103.>>  is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (f ) and (g) as subsections 
        (g) and (h), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(f ) Section 8 Project-Based Assistance.--
            ``(1) Eligibility.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, a multifamily project which includes one or more dwelling 
        units that have been converted to assisted living facilities 
        using grants made under this section shall be eligible for 
        project-based assistance under section 8 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937, in the same manner in which the project 
        would be eligible for such assistance but for the assisted 
        living facilities in the project.
            ``(2) Calculation of rent.--For assistance pursuant to this 
        subsection, the maximum monthly rent of a dwelling unit that is 
        an assisted living facility with respect to which assistance 
        payments are made shall not include charges attributable to 
        services relating to assisted living.''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1106]]

SEC. 524. SIZE LIMITATION FOR PROJECTS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.

    (a) Limitation.--Section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (k)(4), by inserting ``, subject to the 
        limitation under subsection (h)(6)'' after ``prescribe''; and
            (2) in subsection (l), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(4) Size limitation.--Of any amounts made available for 
        any fiscal year and used for capital advances or project rental 
        assistance under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (d), not 
        more than 25 percent may be used for supportive housing which 
        contains more than 24 separate dwelling units.''.

    (b) Study.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  later than the 
expiration of the 3-month period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
conduct a study and submit a report to the Congress regarding--
            (1) the extent to which the authority of the Secretary under 
        section 811(k)(4) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
        Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(k)(4)), as in effect immediately 
        before the enactment of this Act, has been used in each year 
        since 1990 to provide for assistance under such section for 
        supportive housing for persons with disabilities having more 
        than 24 separate dwelling units;
            (2) the per-unit costs of, and the benefits and problems 
        associated with, providing such housing in projects having eight 
        or less dwelling units, 8 to 24 units, and more than 24 units; 
        and
            (3) the per-unit costs of, and the benefits and problems 
        associated with providing housing under section 202 of the 
        Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) in projects having 30 to 
        50 dwelling units, in projects having more than 50 but not more 
        than 80 dwelling units, in projects having more than 80 but not 
        more than 120 dwelling units, and in projects having more than 
        120 dwelling units, but the study shall also examine the social 
        considerations afforded by smaller and moderate-size 
        developments and shall not be limited to economic factors.

SEC. 525. COMMISSION <<NOTE: 42 USC 12701 note.>>  ON AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
            AND HEALTH CARE FACILITY NEEDS IN THE 21ST CENTURY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a commission to be 
known as the Commission on Affordable Housing and Health Care Facility 
Needs in the 21st Century (in this section referred to as the 
``Commission''.
    (b) Study.--The duty of the Commission shall be to conduct a study 
that--
            (1) compiles and interprets information regarding the 
        expected increase in the population of persons 62 years of age 
        or older, particularly information regarding distribution of 
        income levels, homeownership and home equity rates, and degree 
        or extent of health and independence of living;
            (2) provides an estimate of the future needs of seniors for 
        affordable housing and assisted living and health care 
        facilities;
            (3) provides a comparison of estimate of such future needs 
        with an estimate of the housing and facilities expected to be

[[Page 113 STAT. 1107]]

        provided under existing public programs, and identifies possible 
        actions or initiatives that may assist in providing affordable 
        housing and assisted living and health care facilities to meet 
        such expected needs;
            (4) identifies and analyzes methods of encouraging increased 
        private sector participation, investment, and capital formation 
        in affordable housing and assisted living and health care 
        facilities for seniors through partnerships between public and 
        private entities and other creative strategies;
            (5) analyzes the costs and benefits of comprehensive aging-
        in-place strategies, taking into consideration physical and 
        mental well-being and the importance of coordination between 
        shelter and supportive services;
            (6) identifies and analyzes methods of promoting a more 
        comprehensive approach to dealing with housing and supportive 
        service issues involved in aging and the multiple governmental 
        agencies involved in such issues, including the Department of 
        Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Health and 
        Human Services; and
            (7) examines how to establish intergenerational learning and 
        care centers and living arrangements, in particular to 
        facilitate appropriate environments for families consisting only 
        of children and a grandparent or grandparents who are the head 
        of the household.

    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Number <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  and Appointment.--The 
        Commission shall be composed of 14 members, appointed not later 
        than January 1, 2000, as follows:
                    (A) Two co-chairpersons, of whom--
                          (i) one co-chairperson shall be appointed by a 
                      committee consisting of the chairman of the 
                      Subcommittee on Housing and Community 
                      Opportunities of the House of Representatives and 
                      the chairman of the Subcommittee on Housing and 
                      Transportation of the Senate, and the chairmen of 
                      the Subcommittees on the Departments of Veterans 
                      Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
                      Independent Agencies of the Committees on 
                      Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
                      the Senate; and
                          (ii) one co-chairperson shall be appointed by 
                      a committee consisting of the ranking minority 
                      member of the Subcommittee on Housing and 
                      Community Opportunities of the House of 
                      Representatives and the ranking minority member of 
                      the Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation of 
                      the Senate, and the ranking minority members of 
                      the Subcommittees on the Departments of Veterans 
                      Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
                      Independent Agencies of the Committees on 
                      Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
                      the Senate.
                    (B) Six members appointed by the Chairman and 
                Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on Banking and 
                Financial Services of the House of Representatives and 
                the Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1108]]

                    (C) Six members appointed by the Chairman and 
                Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate.
            (2) Qualifications.--Appointees should have proven expertise 
        in directing, assembling, or applying capital resources from a 
        variety of sources to the successful development of affordable 
        housing, assisted living facilities, or health care facilities.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy on the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers and shall be filled in the manner in which the 
        original appointment was made.
            (4) Chairpersons.--The members appointed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1)(A) shall serve as co-chairpersons of the 
        Commission.
            (5) Prohibition of pay.--Members of the Commission shall 
        serve without pay.
            (6) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 
        5, United States Code.
            (7) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
        shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
            (8) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairpersons.

    (d) Director and Staff.--
            (1) Director.--The Commission shall have a Director who 
        shall be appointed by the Chairperson. The Director shall be 
        paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for 
        level V of the Executive Schedule.
            (2) Staff.--The Commission may appoint personnel as 
        appropriate. The staff of the Commission shall be appointed 
        subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be 
        paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (3) Experts and consultants.--The Commission may procure 
        temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of 
        title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals not to 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic 
        pay payable for the General Schedule.
            (4) Staff of federal agencies.--Upon request of the 
        Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may 
        detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that 
        department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying 
        out its duties under this Act.

    (e) Powers.--
            (1) Hearings and sessions.--The Commission may, for the 
        purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit and act 
        at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the 
        Commission considers appropriate.
            (2) Powers of members and agents.--Any member or agent of 
        the Commission may, if authorized by the Commission,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1109]]

        take any action which the Commission is authorized to take by 
        this section.
            (3) Obtaining official data.--The Commission may secure 
        directly from any department or agency of the United States 
        information necessary to enable it to carry out this Act. Upon 
        request of the Chairpersons of the Commission, the head of that 
        department or agency shall furnish that information to the 
        Commission.
            (4) Gifts, bequests, and devises.--The Commission may 
        accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of 
        services or property, both real and personal, for the purpose of 
        aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission. Gifts, 
        bequests, or devises of money and proceeds from sales of other 
        property received as gifts, bequests, or devises shall be 
        deposited in the Treasury and shall be available for 
        disbursement upon order of the Commission.
            (5) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
        in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
            (6) Administrative support services.--Upon the request of 
        the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
        provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the 
        administrative support services necessary for the Commission to 
        carry out its responsibilities under this section.
            (7) Contract authority.--The Commission may contract with 
        and compensate Government and private agencies or persons for 
        services, without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes 
        (41 U.S.C. 5).

    (f ) Report.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Commission shall submit to 
the Committees on Banking and Financial Services and Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Committees on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs and Appropriations of the Senate, a final report not later 
than December 31, 2001. The report shall contain a detailed statement of 
the findings and conclusions of the Commission with respect to the study 
conducted under subsection (b), together with its recommendations for 
legislation, administrative actions, and any other actions the 
Commission considers appropriate.

    (g) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on June 30, 2002. 
Section 14(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
App.; relating to the termination of advisory committees) shall not 
apply to the Commission.

    Subtitle C--Renewal of Expiring Rental Assistance Contracts and 
                         Protection of Residents

SEC. 531. RENEWAL OF EXPIRING CONTRACTS AND ENHANCED VOUCHERS FOR 
            PROJECT RESIDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing 
Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended 
to read as follows:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1110]]

``SEC. 524. RENEWAL OF EXPIRING PROJECT-BASED SECTION 8 CONTRACTS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Renewal.--Subject to paragraph (2), upon termination 
        or expiration of a contract for project-based assistance under 
        section 8 for a multifamily housing project (and notwithstanding 
        section 8(v) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for loan 
        management assistance), the Secretary shall, at the request of 
        the owner of the project and to the extent sufficient amounts 
        are made available in appropriation Acts, use amounts available 
        for the renewal of assistance under section 8 of such Act to 
        provide such assistance for the project. The assistance shall be 
        provided under a contract having such terms and conditions as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate, subject to the requirements 
        of this section. This section shall not require contract renewal 
        for a project that is eligible under this subtitle for a 
        mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan, 
        if there is no approved plan for the project and the Secretary 
        determines that such an approved plan is necessary.
            ``(2) Prohibition on renewal.--Notwithstanding part 24 of 
        title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the Secretary may 
        elect not to renew assistance for a project otherwise required 
        to be renewed under paragraph (1) or provide comparable benefits 
        under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (e) for a project 
        described in either such paragraph, if the Secretary determines 
        that a violation under paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 
        516(a) has occurred with respect to the project. For purposes of 
        such a determination, the provisions of section 516 shall apply 
        to a project under this section in the same manner and to the 
        same extent that the provisions of such section apply to 
        eligible multifamily housing projects, except that the Secretary 
        shall make the determination under section 516(a)(4).
            ``(3) Contract term for mark-up-to-market contracts.--In the 
        case of an expiring or terminating contract that has rent levels 
        less than comparable market rents for the market area, if the 
        rent levels under the renewal contract under this section are 
        equal to comparable market rents for the market area, the 
        contract shall have a term of not less than 5 years, subject to 
        the availability of sufficient amounts in appropriation Acts.
            ``(4) Renewal rents.--Except as provided in subsection (b), 
        the contract for assistance shall provide assistance at the 
        following rent levels:
                    ``(A) Market rents.--At the request of the owner of 
                the project, at rent levels equal to the lesser of 
                comparable market rents for the market area or 150 
                percent of the fair market rents, in the case only of a 
                project that--
                          ``(i) has rent levels under the expiring or 
                      terminating contract that do not exceed such 
                      comparable market rents;
                          ``(ii) does not have a low- and moderate-
                      income use restriction that can not be eliminated 
                      by unilateral action by the owner;
                          ``(iii) is decent, safe, and sanitary housing, 
                      as determined by the Secretary;
                          ``(iv) is not--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1111]]

                                    ``(I) owned by a nonprofit entity;
                                    ``(II) subject to a contract for 
                                moderate rehabilitation assistance under 
                                section 8(e)(2) of the United States 
                                Housing Act of 1937, as in effect before 
                                October 1, 1991; or
                                    ``(III) a project for which the 
                                public housing agency provided voucher 
                                assistance to one or more of the tenants 
                                after the owner has provided notice of 
                                termination of the contract covering the 
                                tenant's unit; and
                          ``(v) has units assisted under the contract 
                      for which the comparable market rent exceeds 110 
                      percent of the fair market rent.
                The Secretary may adjust the percentages of fair market 
                rent (as specified in the matter preceding clause (i) 
                and in clause (v)), but only upon a determination and 
                written notification to the Congress within 10 days of 
                making such determination, that such adjustment is 
                necessary to ensure that this subparagraph covers 
                projects with a high risk of nonrenewal of expiring 
                contracts for project-based assistance.
                    ``(B) Reduction to market rents.--In the case of a 
                project that has rent levels under the expiring or 
                terminating contract that exceed comparable market rents 
                for the market area, at rent levels equal to such 
                comparable market rents.
                    ``(C) Rents not exceeding market rents.--In the case 
                of a project that is not subject to subparagraph (A) or 
                (B), at rent levels that--
                          ``(i) are not less than the existing rents 
                      under the terminated or expiring contract, as 
                      adjusted by an operating cost adjustment factor 
                      established by the Secretary (which shall not 
                      result in a negative adjustment), if such adjusted 
                      rents do not exceed comparable market rents for 
                      the market area; and
                          ``(ii) do not exceed comparable market rents 
                      for the market area.
                In determining the rent level for a contract under this 
                subparagraph, the Secretary shall approve rents 
                sufficient to cover budget-based cost increases and 
                shall give greater consideration to providing rent at a 
                level up to comparable market rents for the market area 
                based on the number of the criteria under clauses (i) 
                through (iii) of subparagraph (D) that the project 
                meets.
                    ``(D) Waiver of 150 percent limitation.--
                Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), at rent levels up to 
                comparable market rents for the market area, in the case 
                of a project that meets the requirements under clauses 
                (i) through (v) of subparagraph (A) and--
                          ``(i) has residents who are a particularly 
                      vulnerable population, as demonstrated by a high 
                      percentage of units being rented to elderly 
                      families, disabled families, or large families;
                          ``(ii) is located in an area in which tenant-
                      based assistance would be difficult to use, as 
                      demonstrated by a low vacancy rate for affordable 
                      housing, a high

[[Page 113 STAT. 1112]]

                      turnback rate for vouchers, or a lack of 
                      comparable rental housing; or
                          ``(iii) is a high priority for the local 
                      community, as demonstrated by a contribution of 
                      State or local funds to the property.
                In determining the rent level for a contract under this 
                subparagraph, the Secretary shall approve rents 
                sufficient to cover budget-based cost increases and 
                shall give greater consideration to providing rent at a 
                level up to comparable market rents for the market area 
                based on the number of the criteria under clauses (i) 
                through (iv) that the project meets.
            ``(5) Comparable market rents and comparison with fair 
        market rents.--The Secretary shall prescribe the method for 
        determining comparable market rent by comparison with rents 
        charged for comparable properties (as such term is defined in 
        section 512), which may include appropriate adjustments for 
        utility allowances and adjustments to reflect the value of any 
        subsidy (other than section 8 assistance) provided by the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development.

    ``(b) Exception Rents.--
            ``(1) Renewal.--In the case of a multifamily housing project 
        described in paragraph (2), pursuant to the request of the owner 
        of the project, the contract for assistance for the project 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall provide assistance at the 
        lesser of the following rent levels:
                    ``(A) Adjusted existing rents.--The existing rents 
                under the expiring contract, as adjusted by an operating 
                cost adjustment factor established by the Secretary 
                (which shall not result in a negative adjustment).
                    ``(B) Budget-based rents.--Subject to a 
                determination by the Secretary that a rent level under 
                this subparagraph is appropriate for a project, a rent 
                level that provides income sufficient to support a 
                budget-based rent (including a budget-based rent 
                adjustment if justified by reasonable and expected 
                operating expenses).
            ``(2) Projects covered.--A multifamily housing project 
        described in this paragraph is a multifamily housing project 
        that--
                    ``(A) is not an eligible multifamily housing project 
                under section 512(2); or
                    ``(B) is exempt from mortgage restructuring under 
                this subtitle pursuant to section 514(h).
            ``(3) Moderate rehabilitation projects.--In the case of a 
        project with a contract under the moderate rehabilitation 
        program, other than a moderate rehabilitation contract under 
        section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, 
        pursuant to the request of the owner of the project, the 
        contract for assistance for the project pursuant to subsection 
        (a) shall provide assistance at the lesser of the following rent 
        levels:
                    ``(A) Adjusted existing rents.--The existing rents 
                under the expiring contract, as adjusted by an operating 
                cost adjustment factor established by the Secretary 
                (which shall not result in a negative adjustment).
                    ``(B) Fair market rents.--Fair market rents (less 
                any amounts allowed for tenant-purchased utilities).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1113]]

                    ``(C) Market rents.--Comparable market rents for the 
                market area.

    ``(c) Rent Adjustments After Renewal of Contract.--
            ``(1) Required.--After the initial renewal of a contract for 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 pursuant to subsection (a), (b)(1), or (e)(2), the 
        Secretary shall annually adjust the rents using an operating 
        cost adjustment factor established by the Secretary (which shall 
        not result in a negative adjustment) or, upon the request of the 
        owner and subject to approval of the Secretary, on a budget 
        basis. In the case of projects with contracts renewed pursuant 
        to subsection (a) or pursuant to subsection (e)(2) at rent 
        levels equal to comparable market rents for the market area, at 
        the expiration of each 5-year period, the Secretary shall 
        compare existing rents with comparable market rents for the 
        market area and may make any adjustments in the rent necessary 
        to maintain the contract rents at a level not greater than 
        comparable market rents or to increase rents to comparable 
        market rents.
            ``(2) Discretionary.--In addition to review and adjustment 
        required under paragraph (1), in the case of projects with 
        contracts renewed pursuant to subsection (a) or pursuant to 
        subsection (e)(2) at rent levels equal to comparable market 
        rents for the market area, the Secretary may, at the discretion 
        of the Secretary but only once within each 5-year period 
        referred to in paragraph (1), conduct a comparison of rents for 
        a project and adjust the rents accordingly to maintain the 
        contract rents at a level not greater than comparable market 
        rents or to increase rents to comparable market rents.

    ``(d) Enhanced Vouchers Upon Contract Expiration.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of a contract for project-
        based assistance under section 8 for a covered project that is 
        not renewed under subsection (a) or (b) of this section (or any 
        other authority), to the extent that amounts for assistance 
        under this subsection are provided in advance in appropriation 
        Acts, upon the date of the expiration of such contract the 
        Secretary shall make enhanced voucher assistance under section 
        8(t) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(t)) available on behalf of each low-income family who, 
        upon the date of such expiration, is residing in an assisted 
        dwelling unit in the covered project.
            ``(2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        following definitions shall apply:
                    ``(A) Assisted dwelling unit.--The term `assisted 
                dwelling unit' means a dwelling unit that--
                          ``(i) is in a covered project; and
                          ``(ii) is covered by rental assistance 
                      provided under the contract for project-based 
                      assistance for the covered project.
                    ``(B) Covered project.--The term `covered project' 
                means any housing that--
                          ``(i) consists of more than four dwelling 
                      units;
                          ``(ii) is covered in whole or in part by a 
                      contract for project-based assistance under--
                                    ``(I) the new construction or 
                                substantial rehabilitation program under 
                                section 8(b)(2) of the

[[Page 113 STAT. 1114]]

                                United States Housing Act of 1937 (as in 
                                effect before October 1, 1983);
                                    ``(II) the property disposition 
                                program under section 8(b) of the United 
                                States Housing Act of 1937;
                                    ``(III) the moderate rehabilitation 
                                program under section 8(e)(2) of the 
                                United States Housing Act of 1937 (as in 
                                effect before October 1, 1991);
                                    ``(IV) the loan management 
                                assistance program under section 8 of 
                                the United States Housing Act of 1937;
                                    ``(V) section 23 of the United 
                                States Housing Act of 1937 (as in effect 
                                before January 1, 1975);
                                    ``(VI) the rent supplement program 
                                under section 101 of the Housing and 
                                Urban Development Act of 1965; or
                                    ``(VII) section 8 of the United 
                                States Housing Act of 1937, following 
                                conversion from assistance under section 
                                101 of the Housing and Urban Development 
                                Act of 1965,
                      which contract will (under its own terms) expire 
                      during the period consisting of fiscal years 2000 
                      through 2004; and
                          ``(iii) is not housing for which residents are 
                      eligible for enhanced voucher assistance as 
                      provided, pursuant to the `Preserving Existing 
                      Housing Investment' account in the Departments of 
                      Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
                      Development, and Independent Agencies 
                      Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-204; 110 
                      Stat. 2884) or any other subsequently enacted 
                      provision of law, in lieu of any benefits under 
                      section 223 of the Low-Income Housing Preservation 
                      and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (12 U.S.C. 
                      4113).
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, 
        2003, and 2004 such sums as may be necessary for enhanced 
        voucher assistance under this subsection.

    ``(e) Contractual Commitments Under Preservation Laws.--Except as 
provided in subsection (a)(2) and notwithstanding any other provision of 
this subtitle, the following shall apply:
            ``(1) Preservation projects.--Upon expiration of a contract 
        for assistance under section 8 for a project that is subject to 
        an approved plan of action under the Emergency Low Income 
        Housing Preservation Act of 1987 (12 U.S.C. 1715l note) or the 
        Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act 
        of 1990 (12 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.), to the extent amounts are 
        specifically made available in appropriation Acts, the Secretary 
        shall provide to the owner benefits comparable to those provided 
        under such plan of action, including distributions, rent 
        increase procedures, and duration of low-income affordability 
        restrictions. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This paragraph shall 
        apply to projects with contracts expiring before, on, or after 
        the date of the enactment of this section.
            ``(2) Demonstration projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Upon expiration of a contract for 
                assistance under section 8 for a project entered into 
                pursuant to any authority specified in subparagraph (B) 
                for

[[Page 113 STAT. 1115]]

                which the Secretary determines that debt restructuring 
                is inappropriate, the Secretary shall, at the request of 
                the owner of the project and to the extent sufficient 
                amounts are made available in appropriation Acts, 
                provide benefits to the owner comparable to those 
                provided under such contract, including annual 
                distributions, rent increase procedures, and duration of 
                low-income affordability restrictions. 
                This <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  paragraph shall apply to 
                projects with contracts expiring before, on, or after 
                the date of the enactment of this section.
                    ``(B) Demonstration programs.--The authority 
                specified in this subparagraph is the authority under--
                          ``(i) section 210 of the Departments of 
                      Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
                      Development, and Independent Agencies 
                      Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-134; 110 
                      Stat. 1321-285; 42 U.S.C. 1437f note);
                          ``(ii) section 212 of the Departments of 
                      Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
                      Development, and Independent Agencies 
                      Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-204; 110 
                      Stat. 2897; 42 U.S.C. 1437f note); and
                          ``(iii) either of such sections, pursuant to 
                      any provision of this title.

    ``(f ) Preemption of Conflicting State Laws Limiting 
Distributions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), no 
        State or political subdivision of a State may establish, 
        continue in effect, or enforce any law or regulation that limits 
        or restricts, to an amount that is less than the amount provided 
        for under the regulations of the Secretary establishing 
        allowable project distributions to provide a return on 
        investment, the amount of surplus funds accruing after the date 
        of the enactment of this section that may be distributed from 
        any multifamily housing project assisted under a contract for 
        rental assistance renewed under any provision of this section 
        (except subsection (b)) to the owner of the project.
            ``(2) Exception and waiver.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply 
        to any law or regulation to the extent such law or regulation 
        applies to--
                    ``(A) a State-financed multifamily housing project; 
                or
                    ``(B) a multifamily housing project for which the 
                owner has elected to waive the applicability of 
                paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Treatment of low-income use restrictions.--This 
        subsection may not be construed to provide for, allow, or result 
        in the release or termination, for any project, of any low- or 
        moderate-income use restrictions that can not be eliminated by 
        unilateral action of the owner of the project.

    ``(g) Applicability.--Except to the extent otherwise specifically 
provided in this section, this section shall apply with respect to any 
multifamily housing project having a contract for project-based 
assistance under section 8 that terminates or expires during fiscal year 
2000 or thereafter.''.
    (b) Definition of Eligible Multifamily Housing Project.--Section 
512(2) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act 
of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended by inserting after and below 
subparagraph (C) the following:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1116]]

        ``Such term does not include any project with an expiring 
        contract described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 524(e).''.

    (c) Projects Exempted From Restructuring Agreements.--Section 514(h) 
of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 
(42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at 
the end the following: ``and the financing involves mortgage insurance 
under the National Housing Act, such that the implementation of a 
mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan under this 
subtitle is in conflict with applicable law or agreements governing such 
financing''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Section 8 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) is amended--
            (1) by designating as subsection (v) the sentence added by 
        section 405(c) of The Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I (Public 
        Law 104-99; 110 Stat. 44); and
            (2) by striking subsection (w).

SEC. 532. SECTION 236 ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Continued Receipt of Subsidies Upon Refinancing.--Section 236(e) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(e)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

    ``(2) A project for which interest reduction payments are made under 
this section and for which the mortgage on the project has been 
refinanced shall continue to receive the interest reduction payments 
under this section under the terms of the contract for such payments, 
but only if the project owner enters into such binding commitments as 
the Secretary may require (which shall be applicable to any subsequent 
owner) to ensure that the owner will continue to operate the project in 
accordance with all low-income affordability restrictions for the 
project in connection with the Federal assistance for the project for a 
period having a duration that is not less than the term for which such 
interest reduction payments are made plus an additional 5 years.''.
    (b) Retention of Excess Income.--Section 236(g) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(g)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(g)'';
            (2) by striking the last sentence; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

    ``(2) Subject to paragraph (3) and notwithstanding any other 
requirements of this subsection, a project owner may retain some or all 
of such excess charges for project use if authorized by the Secretary. 
Such excess charges shall be used for the project and upon terms and 
conditions established by the Secretary, unless the Secretary permits 
the owner to retain funds for non-project use after a determination that 
the project is well-maintained housing in good condition and that the 
owner has not engaged in material adverse financial or managerial 
actions or omissions as described in section 516 of the Multifamily 
Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997. In connection 
with the retention of funds for non-project use, the Secretary may 
require the project owner to enter into a binding commitment (which 
shall be applicable to any subsequent owner) to ensure that the owner 
will continue to operate the project in accordance with all low-income 
affordability restrictions for the project in connection with

[[Page 113 STAT. 1117]]

the Federal assistance for the project for a period having a duration of 
not less than the term of the existing affordability restrictions plus 
an additional 5 years.
    ``(3) The <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  authority under paragraph (2) to 
retain and use excess charges shall apply--
                    ``(A) during fiscal year 2000, to all project owners 

                collecting such excess charges; and
                    ``(B) during fiscal year 2001 and thereafter--
                          ``(i) to any owner of: (I) a project with a 
                      mortgage insured under this section; (II) a 
                      project with a mortgage formerly insured under 
                      this section if such mortgage is held by the 
                      Secretary and the owner of such project is current 
                      with respect to the mortgage obligation; or (III) 
                      a project previously assisted under subsection (b) 
                      but without a mortgage insured under this section 
                      if the project was insured under section 207 of 
                      this Act before July 30, 1998, pursuant to section 
                      223(f ) of this Act and assisted under subsection 
                      (b); and
                          ``(ii) to other project owners not referred to 
                      in clause (i) who collect such excess charges, but 
                      only to the extent that such retention and use is 
                      approved in advance in an appropriation Act.''.

    (c) Previously Owed Excess Income.--Section 236(g) of the National 
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(g)), as amended by subsection (b) of this 
section, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(4) The Secretary shall not withhold approval of the retention by 
the owner of such excess charges because of the existence of unpaid 
excess charges if such unpaid amount is being remitted to the Secretary 
over a period of time in accordance with a workout agreement with the 
Secretary, unless the Secretary determines that the owner is in 
violation of the workout agreement.''.
    (d) Flexibility Regarding Basic Rents and Market Rents.--Section 
236(f ) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f )(1)) is 
amended by striking the subsection designation and all that follows 
through the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
    ``(f )(1)(A)(i) For each dwelling unit there shall be established, 
with the approval of the Secretary, a basic rental charge and fair 
market rental charge.
    ``(ii) The basic rental charge shall be--
            ``(I) the amount needed to operate the project with payments 
        of principal and interest due under a mortgage bearing interest 
        at the rate of 1 percent per annum; or
            ``(II) an amount greater than that determined under clause 
        (ii)(I), but not greater than the market rent for a comparable 
        unassisted unit, reduced by the value of the interest reduction 
        payments subsidy.

    ``(iii) The fair market rental charge shall be--
            ``(I) the amount needed to operate the project with payments 
        of principal, interest, and mortgage insurance premium which the 
        mortgagor is obligated to pay under the mortgage covering the 
        project; or
            ``(II) an amount greater than that determined under clause 
        (iii)(I), but not greater than the market rent for a comparable 
        unassisted unit.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1118]]

    ``(iv) The Secretary may approve a basic rental charge and fair 
market rental charge for a unit that exceeds the minimum amounts 
permitted by this subparagraph for such charges only if--
            ``(I) the approved basic rental charge and fair market 
        rental charges each exceed the applicable minimum charge by the 
        same amount; and
            ``(II) the project owner agrees to restrictions on project 
        use or mortgage prepayment that are acceptable to the Secretary.

    ``(v) The Secretary may approve a basic rental charge and fair 
market rental charge under this paragraph for a unit with assistance 
under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437f) that differs from the basic rental charge and fair market rental 
charge for a unit in the same project that is similar in size and 
amenities but without such assistance, as needed to ensure equitable 
treatment of tenants in units without such assistance.
    ``(B)(i) The rental charge for each dwelling unit shall be at the 
basic rental charge or such greater amount, not exceeding the fair 
market rental charge determined pursuant to subparagraph (A), as 
represents 30 percent of the tenant's adjusted income, except as 
otherwise provided in this subparagraph.
    ``(ii) In the case of a project which contains more than 5000 units, 
is subject to an interest reduction payments contract, and is financed 
under a State or local project, the Secretary may reduce the rental 
charge ceiling, but in no case shall the rental charge be below the 
basic rental charge set forth in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I).
    ``(iii) For plans of action approved for capital grants under the 
Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 
or the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987, the rental 
charge for each dwelling unit shall be at the minimum basic rental 
charge set forth in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I) or such greater amount, not 
exceeding the lower of: (I) the fair market rental charge set forth in 
subparagraph (A)(iii)(I); or (II) the actual rent paid for a comparable 
unit in comparable unassisted housing in the market area in which the 
housing assisted under this section is located, as represents 30 percent 
of the tenant's adjusted income.
    ``(C) With respect to those projects which the Secretary determines 
have separate utility metering paid by the tenants for some or all 
dwelling units, the Secretary may--
            ``(i) permit the basic rental charge and the fair market 
        rental charge to be determined on the basis of operating the 
        project without the payment of the cost of utility services used 
        by such dwelling units; and
            ``(ii) permit the charging of a rental for such dwelling 
        units at such an amount less than 30 percent of a tenant's 
        adjusted income as the Secretary determines represents a 
        proportionate decrease for the utility charges to be paid by 
        such tenant, but in no case shall rental be lower than 25 
        percent of a tenant's adjusted income.''.

    (e) Effective <<NOTE: 12 USC 1715z-1 note.>>  Date of 1998 
Provisions.--Section 236(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
1715z-1(g)), as amended by section 227 of the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-276; 112 Stat. 2490) shall be 
effective

[[Page 113 STAT. 1119]]

on the date of the enactment of such Public Law 105-276, and any excess 
rental charges referred to in such section that have been collected 
since such date of the enactment with respect to projects with mortgages 
insured under section 207 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1713) 
may be retained by the project owner unless the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development specifically provides otherwise. The Secretary may 
return any excess charges remitted to the Secretary since such date of 
the enactment.

    (f ) Effective <<NOTE: Applicability. 12 USC 1715z-1 note.>>  
Date.--This section shall take effect, and the amendments made by this 
section are made and shall apply, on the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 533. REHABILITATION OF ASSISTED HOUSING.

    (a) Rehabilitation Loans From Recaptured IRP Amounts.--Section 
236(s) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(s)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the subsection designation and heading and 
        inserting the following:

    ``(s) Grants and Loans for Rehabilitation of Multifamily Projects.--
'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and loans'' after 
        ``grants'';
            (3) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``capital grant assistance under this 
                subsection'' and inserting ``capital assistance under 
                this subsection under a grant or loan only''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (D)(i), by striking ``capital 
                grant assistance'' and inserting ``capital assistance 
                under this subsection from a grant or loan (as 
                appropriate)'';
            (4) in paragraph (3), by striking all of the matter that 
        precedes subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Eligible uses.--Amounts from a grant or loan under 
        this subsection may be used only for projects eligible under 
        paragraph (2) for the purposes of--'';
            (5) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking the paragraph heading and inserting 
                ``Grant and loan agreements''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or loan'' after ``grant'', each 
                place it appears;
            (6) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``or loan'' after 
        ``grant'', each place it appears;
            (7) in paragraph (6), by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Loans.--In making loans under this subsection 
                using the amounts that the Secretary has recaptured from 
                contracts for interest reduction payments pursuant to 
                clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (7)(A)--
                          ``(i) the Secretary may use such recaptured 
                      amounts for costs (as such term is defined in 
                      section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
                      1974) of such loans; and
                          ``(ii) the Secretary may make loans in any 
                      fiscal year only to the extent or in such amounts 
                      that amounts are used under clause (i) to cover 
                      costs of such loans.'';

[[Page 113 STAT. 1120]]

            (8) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) (as amended by 
        the preceding provisions of this subsection) as paragraphs (6) 
        and (7); and
            (9) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) Loan terms.--A loan under this subsection--
                    ``(A) shall provide amounts for the eligible uses 
                under paragraph (3) in a single loan disbursement of 
                loan principal;
                    ``(B) shall be repaid, as to principal and interest, 
                on behalf of the borrower using amounts recaptured from 
                contracts for interest reduction payments pursuant to 
                clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (7)(A);
                    ``(C) shall have a term to maturity of a duration 
                not shorter than the remaining period for which the 
                interest reduction payments for the insured mortgage or 
                mortgages that fund repayment of the loan would have 
                continued after extinguishment or writedown of the 
                mortgage (in accordance with the terms of such mortgage 
                in effect immediately before such extinguishment or 
                writedown);
                    ``(D) shall bear interest at a rate, as determined 
                by the Secretary of the Treasury, that is based upon the 
                current market yields on outstanding marketable 
                obligations of the United States having comparable 
                maturities; and
                    ``(E) shall involve a principal obligation of an 
                amount not exceeding the amount that can be repaid using 
                amounts described in subparagraph (B) over the term 
                determined in accordance with subparagraph (C), with 
                interest at the rate determined under subparagraph 
                (D).''.

    (b) IRP Capital Grants Requirement for Extension of Low-Income 
Affordability Requirements.--Section 236(s) of the National Housing Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(s)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D), as 
                amended by the preceding provisions of this section, as 
                subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) the project owner enters into such binding 
                commitments as the Secretary may require (which shall be 
                applicable to any subsequent owner) to ensure that the 
                owner will continue to operate the project in accordance 
                with all low-income affordability restrictions for the 
                project in connection with the Federal assistance for 
                the project for a period having a duration that is not 
                less than the period referred to in paragraph (5)(C);''; 
                and
            (2) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ``and consistent with 
        paragraph (2)(C)'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 534. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    Section 514(f )(3) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and 
Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended by inserting 
after ``new owners)'' the following: ``, for technical assistance for 
preservation of low-income housing for which project-based rental 
assistance is provided at below market rent levels

[[Page 113 STAT. 1121]]

and may not be renewed (including transfer of developments to tenant 
groups, nonprofit organizations, and public entities),''.

SEC. 535. TERMINATION OF SECTION 8 CONTRACT AND DURATION OF RENEWAL 
            CONTRACT.

    Section 8(c)(8) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437f(c)(8)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``terminating'' and inserting 
                ``termination of''; and
                    (B) by striking the third comma of the first 
                sentence and all that follows through the end of the 
                subparagraph and inserting the following: ``. 
                The <<NOTE: Notice.>>  notice shall also include a 
                statement that, if the Congress makes funds available, 
                the owner and the Secretary may agree to a renewal of 
                the contract, thus avoiding termination, and that in the 
                event of termination the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development will provide tenant-based rental assistance 
                to all eligible residents, enabling them to choose the 
                place they wish to rent, which is likely to include the 
                dwelling unit in which they currently reside. Any 
                contract covered by this paragraph that is renewed may 
                be renewed for a period of up to 1 year or any number or 
                years, with payments subject to the availability of 
                appropriations for any year.'';
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (3) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by striking the first sentence;
                    (B) by striking ``in the immediately preceding 
                sentence'';
                    (C) by striking ``180-day'' each place it appears;
                    (D) by striking ``such period'' and inserting ``1 
                year''; and
                    (E) by striking ``180 days'' and inserting ``1 
                year''; and
            (4) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), as 
        amended by the preceding provisions of this subsection, as 
        subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), respectively.

SEC. 536. ELIGIBILITY OF RESIDENTS OF FLEXIBLE SUBSIDY PROJECTS FOR 
            ENHANCED VOUCHERS.

    Section 201 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 
1978 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(p) Enhanced Voucher Eligibility.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any project that receives or has received assistance 
under this section and which is the subject of a transaction under which 
the project is preserved as affordable housing, as determined by the 
Secretary, shall be considered eligible low-income housing under section 
229 of the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership 
Act of 1990 (12 U.S.C. 4119) for purposes of eligibility of residents of 
such project for enhanced voucher assistance provided under section 8(t) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)) (pursuant 
to section 223(f ) of the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident 
Homeownership Act of 1990 (12 U.S.C. 4113(f ))).''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1122]]

SEC. 537. ENHANCED DISPOSITION AUTHORITY.

    Section 204 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-11a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and 1999'' and inserting ``1999, and 
        2000''; and
            (2) by striking ``or demolition'' and inserting ``, 
        demolition, or construction on the properties (which shall be 
        eligible whether vacant or occupied)''.

SEC. 538. UNIFIED ENHANCED VOUCHER AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437f) is amended by inserting after subsection (s) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(t) Enhanced Vouchers.--
            ``(1) In general.--Enhanced voucher assistance under this 
        subsection for a family shall be voucher assistance under 
        subsection (o), except that under such enhanced voucher 
        assistance--
                    ``(A) subject only to subparagraph (D), the assisted 
                family shall pay as rent no less than the amount the 
                family was paying on the date of the eligibility event 
                for the project in which the family was residing on such 
                date;
                    ``(B) during any period that the assisted family 
                continues residing in the same project in which the 
                family was residing on the date of the eligibility event 
                for the project, if the rent for the dwelling unit of 
                the family in such project exceeds the applicable 
                payment standard established pursuant to subsection (o) 
                for the unit, the amount of rental assistance provided 
                on behalf of the family shall be determined using a 
                payment standard that is equal to the rent for the 
                dwelling unit (as such rent may be increased from time-
                to-time), subject to paragraph (10)(A) of subsection 
                (o);
                    ``(C) subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not 
                apply and the payment standard for the dwelling unit 
                occupied by the family shall be determined in accordance 
                with subsection (o) if--
                          ``(i) the assisted family moves, at any time, 
                      from such project; or
                          ``(ii) the voucher is made available for use 
                      by any family other than the original family on 
                      behalf of whom the voucher was provided; and
                    ``(D) if the income of the assisted family declines 
                to a significant extent, the percentage of income paid 
                by the family for rent shall not exceed the greater of 
                30 percent or the percentage of income paid at the time 
                of the eligibility event for the project.
            ``(2) Eligibility event.--For purposes of this subsection, 
        the term `eligibility event' means, with respect to a 
        multifamily housing project, the prepayment of the mortgage on 
        such housing project, the voluntary termination of the insurance 
        contract for the mortgage for such housing project, the 
        termination or expiration of the contract for rental assistance 
        under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for 
        such housing project, or the transaction under which the project 
        is preserved as affordable housing, that, under paragraphs

[[Page 113 STAT. 1123]]

        (3) and (4) of section 515(c), section 524(d) of the Multifamily 
        Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f note), section 223(f ) of the Low-Income Housing 
        Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (12 U.S.C. 
        4113(f )), or section 201(p) of the Housing and Community 
        Development Amendments of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a(p)), results 
        in tenants in such housing project being eligible for enhanced 
        voucher assistance under this subsection.
            ``(3) Treatment of enhanced vouchers provided under other 
        authority.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, any enhanced voucher assistance 
                provided under any authority specified in subparagraph 
                (B) shall (regardless of the date that the amounts for 
                providing such assistance were made available) be 
                treated, and subject to the same requirements, as 
                enhanced voucher assistance under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Identification of other authority.--The 
                authority specified in this subparagraph is the 
                authority under--
                          ``(i) the 10th, 11th, and 12th provisos under 
                      the `Preserving Existing Housing Investment' 
                      account in title II of the Departments of Veterans 
                      Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
                      Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 
                      (Public Law 104-204; 110 Stat. 2884), pursuant to 
                      such provisos, the first proviso under the 
                      `Housing Certificate Fund' account in title II of 
                      the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing 
                      and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
                      Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-65; 111 
                      Stat. 1351), or the first proviso under the 
                      `Housing Certificate Fund' account in title II of 
                      the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing 
                      and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
                      Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-276; 112 
                      Stat. 2469); and
                          ``(ii) paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 
                      515(c) of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform 
                      and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f 
                      note), as in effect before the enactment of this 
                      Act.
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, 
        2003, and 2004 such sums as may be necessary for enhanced 
        voucher assistance under this subsection.''.

    (b) Enhanced Vouchers Under MAHRAA.--Section 515(c) of the 
Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42 
U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting 
the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Assistance through enhanced vouchers.--In the case of 
        any family described in paragraph (3) that resides in a project 
        described in section 512(2)(B), the tenant-based assistance 
        provided shall be enhanced voucher assistance under section 8(t) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(t)).''.

    (c) Enhanced Vouchers For Certain Tenants in Prepayment and 
Voluntary Termination Properties.--Section 223 of

[[Page 113 STAT. 1124]]

the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 
1990 (12 U.S.C. 4113) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f ) Enhanced Voucher Assistance for Certain Tenants.--
            ``(1) Authority.--In lieu of benefits under subsections (b), 
        (c), and (d), and subject to the availability of appropriated 
        amounts, each family described in paragraph (2) shall be offered 
        enhanced voucher assistance under section 8(t) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)).
            ``(2) Eligible families.--A family described in this 
        paragraph is a family that is--
                    ``(A)(i) a low-income family; or
                    ``(ii) a moderate-income family that is: (I) an 
                elderly family; (II) a disabled family; or (III) 
                residing in a low-vacancy area; and
                    ``(B) residing in eligible low-income housing on the 
                date of the prepayment of the mortgage or voluntary 
                termination of the insurance contract.''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

    Approved October 20, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2684 (S. 1596):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-286 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-379 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-161 accompanying S. 1596 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Sept. 8, 9, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 22-24, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu 
                of S. 1596.
            Oct. 14, House agreed to conference report. Senate 
                considered conference 
                report.
            Oct. 15, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Oct. 20, Presidential remarks and statement.

                                  <all>