[106th Congress Public Law 433]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ433.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1910]]

Public Law 106-433
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend title 31, United States Code, to prohibit the appearance of 
   Social Security account numbers on or through unopened mailings of 
          checks or other drafts issued on public money in the 
            Treasury. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 2000 -  [H.R. 3218]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Social Security Number 
Confidentiality Act of 2000.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3301 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Social Security Number 
Confidentiality Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. OPEN DISCLOSURE OF SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBERS ON THE FACE 
            OF GOVERNMENT CHECK MAILINGS PROHIBITED.

    Section 3327 of title 31 of the United States Code (relating to 
general authority to issue checks and other drafts) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) The Secretary of the Treasury shall take such actions as are 
necessary to ensure that Social Security account numbers (including 
derivatives of such numbers) are not visible on or through unopened 
mailings of checks or other drafts described in subsection (a) of this 
section.''.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITIONAL RULE. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3327 
            note.>> 

    (a) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  In General.--The amendments made by 
this Act shall apply with respect to all mailings of checks or other 
drafts issued on or after the date which is 3 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Phase-in of Amendments.--Effective 
on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall commence procedures to gradually implement the amendments made by 
this Act in advance of the effective date described in subsection (a). 
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
annually thereafter for each of the next 2 years, the Secretary shall 
transmit to each House of the Congress a report


[[Page 114 STAT. 1911]]

describing the manner and extent to which the requirements of the 
preceding sentence have been carried out.

    Approved November 6, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3218:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 18, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 25, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>