[106th Congress Public Law 82]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ082.106]

Public Law 106-82
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the conveyance of certain property from the United States 
to Stanislaus County, California. <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 1999 -  [H.R. 356]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.

    As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(in this Act referred to as ``NASA'') shall convey to Stanislaus County, 
California, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to the property described in section 2.

SEC. 2. PROPERTY DESCRIBED.

    The property to be conveyed pursuant to section 1 is--
            (1) the approximately 1528 acres of land in Stanislaus 
        County, California, known as the NASA Ames Research Center, 
        Crows Landing Facility (formerly known as the Naval Auxiliary 
        Landing Field, Crows Landing);
            (2) all improvements on the land described in paragraph (1); 
        and
            (3) any other Federal property that is--
                    (A) under the jurisdiction of NASA;
                    (B) located on the land described in paragraph (1); 
                and
                    (C) designated by NASA to be transferred to 
                Stanislaus County, California.

SEC. 3. TERMS.

    (a) Consideration.--The conveyance required by section 1 shall be 
without consideration other than that required by this section.
    (b) Environmental Remediation.--(1) The conveyance required by 
section 1 shall not relieve any Federal agency of any responsibility 
under law, policy, or Federal interagency agreement for any 
environmental remediation of soil, groundwater, or surface water.
    (2) Any remediation of contamination, other than that described in 
paragraph (1), within or related to structures or fixtures on the 
property described in section 2 shall be subject to negotiation to the 
extent permitted by law.
    (c) Retained Right of Use.--NASA shall retain the right to use for 
aviation activities, without consideration and on other terms and 
conditions mutually acceptable to NASA and Stanislaus County, 
California, the property described in section 2.
    (d) Relinquishment of Legislative Jurisdiction.--NASA shall 
relinquish, to the State of California, legislative jurisdiction over 
the property conveyed pursuant to section 1--
            (1) by filing a notice of relinquishment with the Governor 
        of California, which shall take effect upon acceptance thereof; 
        or
            (2) in any other manner prescribed by the laws of 
        California.

    (e) Additional Terms.--The Administrator of NASA may 
negotiate additional terms to protect the interests of the United 
States.

    Approved October 27, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 356:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 4, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>