[106th Congress Public Law 31]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ031.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 57]]

Public Law 106-31
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 1999, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: May 21, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 1141]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: 1999 Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act.>>  That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, and for 
other purposes, namely:

             TITLE I--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                         Office of the Secretary

 emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal farmworkers

    For emergency grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal 
farmworkers under section 2281 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5177a), $20,000,000: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $20,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

           funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply

                              (section 32)

    For an additional amount for the fund maintained for funds made 
available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 
612c), $145,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request for $145,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress: Provided

[[Page 113 STAT. 58]]

further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement under section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Agriculture may waive the limitation 
established under the second sentence of the second paragraph of section 
32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), on the amount of funds 
that may be devoted during fiscal year 1999 to any one agricultural 
commodity or product thereof.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $42,753,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: farm ownership loans, $550,000,000, of which $350,000,000 shall 
be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $370,000,000, of which 
$185,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; and for emergency 
insured loans, $175,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural 
disasters.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to remain available until September 
30, 2000, as follows: farm ownership loans, $35,505,000, of which 
$5,565,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $28,804,000, 
of which $16,169,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; and for 
emergency insured loans, $41,300,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; and for additional administrative expenses to carry 
out the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $4,000,000: Provided, That 
of the total amount appropriated, up to $29,998,000 may be transferred 
to the ``Farm Service Agency Salaries and Expenses'' account with prior 
notification to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That the entire amounts are designated by the Congress 
as emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Funds appropriated by this Act or by the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277) to the Agricultural Credit 
Insurance Program Account for farm ownership and operating direct loans 
and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs with the 
prior approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'' 
for expenses resulting from natural disasters,

[[Page 113 STAT. 59]]

$28,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
made available under this heading by Public Law 105-174 to provide cost-
sharing assistance to maple producers to replace taps and tubing that 
were damaged by ice storms in northeastern States in 1998 may be used to 
carry out any activity authorized under the Emergency Conservation 
Program: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
may be used for restoration of streambanks in the Northeast in non-flood 
prone areas as determined by the county committees: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for $28,000,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                       livestock indemnity program

    An amount of $3,000,000 is appropriated to the Secretary to 
implement a livestock indemnity program. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Such 
program shall be effective only for losses beginning on May 2, 1998, 
through the date of the enactment of this Act from natural disasters 
declared pursuant to a Presidential or Secretarial declaration requested 
prior to the date of the enactment of this Act. The Secretary shall, to 
the extent practicable, provide benefits at a level and in a manner 
similar to the Livestock Indemnity Programs carried out during 1997 and 
1998: Provided, That in administering the program, the Secretary shall, 
to the extent practicable, utilize gross income and payment limitations 
conditions established for the Disaster Reserve Assistance Program for 
the 1996 crop year: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $3,000,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'' to repair damages to the waterways and watersheds resulting 
from natural disasters, $95,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $95,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

[[Page 113 STAT. 60]]

            Rural Economic and Community Development Programs

                   rural community advancement program

    For an additional amount for the cost of direct loans and grants of 
the rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f ), as 
provided in 7 U.S.C. 1926(a) and 7 U.S.C. 1926C for distribution through 
the national reserve, $30,000,000, of which $25,000,000 shall be for 
grants under such program: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $30,000,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 
1949, to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund to 
meet needs resulting from natural disasters, as follows: $10,000,000 for 
loans to section 502 borrowers, as determined by the Secretary; and 
$1,000,000 for section 504 housing repair loans.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including 
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to remain available until expended, 
$1,534,000, as follows: section 502 loans, $1,182,000; and section 504 
housing repair loans, $352,000: Provided, That the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$1,534,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                     rural housing assistance grants

    For an additional amount for grants for very low-income housing 
repair, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, to meet needs resulting from 
natural disasters, $1,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$1,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

[[Page 113 STAT. 61]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>>  (a) Crop Loss Assistance for 
Certain Multiyear Losses.--From funds remaining in a reserve held under 
subsection (c) of section 1102 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1999 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-43), for 
errors, omissions, and appeals, the Secretary of Agriculture may use not 
more than 15 percent of the reserve funds to provide assistance to a 
producer described in subsection (b) who incurred losses to a commodity 
due to disasters in two crop years during the five-crop year period 
beginning with the 1994 crop year.

    (b) Eligibility Criteria.--A producer on a farm is eligible for 
assistance under subsection (a) only if--
            (1) the producer received a federally insured indemnity 
        payment for crop losses in two crop years of such five-crop year 
        period;
            (2) the producer acquired federally insured crop insurance 
        in one additional crop year during such period, but did not 
        receive a federally insured indemnity payment;
            (3) the producer received a non-federally insured indemnity 
        payment for crop losses in the crop year referred to in 
        paragraph (2); and
            (4) the producer does not receive a payment under subsection 
        (b) or (c) of such section 1102.

    (c) Crop Years Covered; Payment Rate.--Any payment to a producer 
under subsection (a) may be paid only for losses incurred during the 
crop years described in paragraph (1) of subsection (b). The payment 
rate may not exceed the payment rate used under subsection (c) of such 
section 1102.
    (d) Effect on Existing Authority.--Nothing in this section 
authorizes the Secretary to delay the provision of crop loss assistance 
under such section 1102, and the Secretary shall complete the payment of 
multiyear assistance under subsection (c) of such section 1102 before 
making any payment under the authority of this section.
    (e) Designation as Emergency Requirement.--Such sums as are 
necessary to carry out the amendments made by subsection (a): Provided, 
That such amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement under section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    Sec. 102. Notwithstanding section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i), an additional $28,000,000 
shall be provided through the Commodity Credit Corporation in fiscal 
year 1999 for technical assistance activities performed by any agency of 
the Department of Agriculture in carrying out the Conservation Reserve 
Program or the Wetlands Reserve Program funded by the Commodity Credit 
Corporation: Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  That an additional 
$35,000,000 shall be provided through the Commodity Credit Corporation 
on October 1, 1999, for technical assistance activities performed by any 
agency of the Department of Agriculture

[[Page 113 STAT. 62]]

in carrying out the Conservation Reserve Program or the Wetlands Reserve 
Program funded by the Commodity Credit Corporation: Provided further, 
That the entire amounts shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request, that includes designation of the entire amounts 
of the request as emergency requirements as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amounts are designated by the Congress as emergency requirements 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

    Sec. 103. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, monies 
available under section 763 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277), shall be provided by the Secretary of Agriculture 
directly to any State determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to have 
been materially affected by the commercial fishery failure or failures 
declared by the Secretary of Commerce in September, 1998 under section 
312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. 
Such State shall disburse the funds to individuals with family incomes 
below the Federal poverty level who have been adversely affected by the 
commercial fishery failure or failures: Provided, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request for 
such amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    Sec. 104. For an additional amount for the Livestock Assistance 
Program under Public Law 105-277, $70,000,000: Provided, <<NOTE: 7 USC 
1421 note.>>  That for the purposes of section 1103 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or regulation, the definition of ``livestock'' shall 
include ``reindeer'': Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $70,000,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

    Sec. 105. Denali Commission. (a) The Denali Commission Act of 1998 
(title III of division C of Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in section 303(b)(1)(D) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3121 note.>>  by 
        striking in two instances ``Alaska Federation or Natives'' and 
        inserting ``Alaska Federation of Natives'';
            (2) in section 303(c) by striking ``Members'' and inserting 
        ``The Federal Cochairperson shall serve for a term of four years 
        and may be reappointed. All other members'';
            (3) in section 306(a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3121 note.>>  by 
        inserting after the first sentence the following: ``The Federal 
        Cochairperson shall be compensated

[[Page 113 STAT. 63]]

        at the annual rate prescribed for level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.'';
            (4) in section 306(c)(2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3121 note.>>  by 
        striking ``Chairman'' and inserting ``Federal Cochairperson'';
            (5) by inserting at the end of section 306 the following new 
        subsections:

    ``(g) Administrative Expenses and Records.--The Commission is hereby 
prohibited from using more than 5 percent of the amounts appropriated 
under the authority of this Act or transferred pursuant to section 329 
of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (section 101(g) of division A of this Act) for administrative 
expenses. The Commission and its grantees shall maintain accurate and 
complete records which shall be available for audit and examination by 
the Comptroller General or his or her designee.
    ``(h) Inspector General.--Section 8G(a)(2) of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3, section 8G(a)(2)) is amended by inserting 
`the Denali Commission,' after `the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting,'.''; and
            (6) in section 307(b) <<NOTE: 42 USC 3121 note.>>  by 
        inserting immediately before ``The Commission'' the following: 
        ``Funds transferred to the Commission pursuant to section 329 of 
        the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(g) of division A of this 
        Act) shall be available without further appropriation and until 
        expended.''.
            (7) in section 305 <<NOTE: 42 USC 3121 note.>>  by inserting 
        at the end a new section (d) as follows:

    ``(d) The Commission, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, is 
authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements, award 
grants, and make payments necessary to carry out the purposes of the 
Commission. With respect to funds appropriated to the Commission for 
fiscal year 1999, the Commission, acting through the Federal 
Cochairperson, is authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative 
agreements, award grants, and make payments to implement an interim work 
plan for fiscal year 1999 approved by the Commission.''.
    (b) Amounts made available by this section are designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided, That such amounts shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 113 STAT. 64]]

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     enforcement and border affairs

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, Enforcement 
and Border Affairs'' to support increased detention requirements for 
Central American criminal aliens and to address the expected influx of 
illegal immigrants from Central America as a result of Hurricane Mitch, 
$80,000,000, which shall remain available until expended and which shall 
be administered by the Attorney General: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$8,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $5,100,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$7,300,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $1,300,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $1,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section

[[Page 113 STAT. 65]]

251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$50,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$13,900,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $2,400,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$2,100,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $8,800,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $21,000,000, of which $20,000,000 is available only for the CINC 
initiative fund: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $20,000,000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further,

[[Page 113 STAT. 66]]

That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for $20,000,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid'', $37,500,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                   New Horizons Exercise Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For emergency expenses incurred by United States military forces to 
participate in the New Horizons Exercise programs to undertake relief, 
rehabilitation, and restoration operations and training activities in 
response to disasters within the United States Southern Command area of 
responsibility, $46,000,000, to remain available for transfer until 
September 30, 1999: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
these funds to operation and maintenance accounts: Provided further, 
That the funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be available 
for the same purposes and for the same time period, as the appropriation 
to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
authority contained in Public Law 105-262: Provided further, That the 
entire amount made available under this heading is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for $46,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 301. (a) The Secretary of each military department may 
designate not to exceed five eligible academy students from foreign 
countries for the purposes of this section. Each student so designated 
shall be considered, for purposes of a waiver of the foreign student 
reimbursement requirement, to be in addition to the number of persons 
for whom an unlimited waiver may otherwise be in effect at any one time.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Termination date.>>  A person is an 
eligible academy student from a foreign country if the person is 
admitted from a foreign country during the period beginning on May 1, 
1999, and ending on September 30, 1999, for instruction at a service 
academy under section 4344, 6957, or 9344 of title 10, United States 
Code (relating to selection of persons from foreign countries).

    (c) For purposes of this section--

[[Page 113 STAT. 67]]

            (1) The foreign student reimbursement requirement is the 
        requirement under paragraph (2) of the applicable foreign 
        student reimbursement statute that a foreign country from which 
        a person is permitted to enroll for instruction under section 
        4434, 6957, or 9344 of title 10, United States Code, reimburse 
        the United States for the cost of providing such instruction.
            (2) An unlimited waiver is a waiver of the foreign student 
        reimbursement requirement by the Secretary of Defense (as 
        authorized by such paragraph (2)) without regard to the 
        percentage limitation on such a waiver specified in paragraph 
        (3) of the applicable foreign student reimbursement statute, and 
        the number of persons for whom such a waiver may otherwise be in 
        effect at any one time is the number of persons specified in 
        such paragraph (3).
            (3) The foreign student reimbursement statute is--
                    (A) section 4434(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
                in the case of the United States Military Academy;
                    (B) section 6957(b) of such title, in the case of 
                the United States Naval Academy; and
                    (C) section 9344(b) of such title, in the case of 
                the United States Air Force Academy.
            (4) The service academies are the United States Military 
        Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States 
        Air Force Academy.

    Sec. 302. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a military 
technician (dual status) (as defined in section 10216 of title 10, 
United States Code) performing active duty without pay while on leave 
from technician employment under section 6323(d) of title 5, United 
States Code, may, in the discretion of the Secretary concerned, be 
authorized a per diem allowance under this title, in lieu of commutation 
for subsistence and quarters as described in section 1002(b) of title 
37, United States Code.
    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: 50 USC 98d note.>>  (a) Disposal Authorized.--
Subject to subsection (c), the President may dispose of the material in 
the National Defense Stockpile specified in the table in subsection (b).

    (b) Table.--The total quantity of the material authorized for 
disposal by the President under subsection (a) is as follows:



                      Authorized Stockpile Disposal
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Material for disposal                              Quantity
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zirconium ore.............................  17,383 short dry tons
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Minimization of Disruption and Loss.--The President may not 
dispose of material under subsection (a) to the extent that the disposal 
will result in--
            (1) undue disruption of the usual markets of producers, 
        processors, and consumers of the material proposed for disposal; 
        or
            (2) avoidable loss to the United States.

    (d) Relationship to Other Disposal Authority.--The disposal 
authority provided in subsection (a) is new disposal authority and is in 
addition to, and shall not affect, any other disposal authority provided 
by law regarding the material specified in such subsection.

[[Page 113 STAT. 68]]

    (e) National Defense Stockpile Defined.--In this section, the term 
``National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund'' means the fund in the 
Treasury of the United States established under section 9(a) of the 
Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h(a)).
    Sec. 304. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from funds 
appropriated by Public Law 105-262, Public Law 105-56, and Public Law 
104-208, under the heading ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$50,700,000 is available for recording, adjusting, and liquidating 
obligations incurred as of the date of this Act for the fiscal years 
1995 and 1996 production quantities of Joint Surveillance Target Attack 
Radar System (JSTARS) aircraft: <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Provided, That 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall notify the congressional defense 
committees of all of the specific sources of funds to be used for the 
JSTARS obligations and follow normal reprogramming procedures.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                  agency for international development

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                          economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', in addition 
to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, to provide assistance 
to Jordan, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

               central america and the caribbean emergency

                         disaster recovery fund

    Notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, for necessary 
expenses to address the effects of hurricanes in Central America and the 
Caribbean and the earthquake in Colombia, $621,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be subject to the provisions of 
chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
and, except for section 558, the provisions of title V of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
1999 (as contained in division A, section 101(d) of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-277)): Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other proviso 
under this 
heading, up to $10,000,000 may be transferred to ``Export-Import Bank of 
the United States, Subsidy Appropriation'' for the cost of direct loans, 
loan guarantees, and insurance, subject to the terms and conditions 
applicable to funds made available under

[[Page 113 STAT. 69]]

that heading in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 
101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)): Provided further, That 
up to $5,500,000 of the funds appropriated by this paragraph may be 
transferred to ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for International 
Development'', to remain available until September 30, 2000, to be used 
for administrative costs of USAID in addressing the effects of those 
hurricanes, of which up to $1,000,000 may be used to contract directly 
for the personal services of individuals in the United States: Provided 
further, That up to $1,500,000 of the funds appropriated by this 
paragraph may be transferred to ``Operating Expenses of the Agency for 
International Development Office of Inspector General'', to remain 
available until expended, to be used for costs of audits, inspections, 
and other activities associated with the expenditure of the funds 
appropriated by this paragraph: Provided further, That up to $500,000 of 
the funds appropriated by this paragraph shall be made available to the 
Comptroller General for purposes of monitoring the provision of 
assistance using funds appropriated by this paragraph: Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated and 
expended subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, not less than $2,000,000 should be made 
available to support the clearance of landmines and other unexploded 
ordnance in Nicaragua and Honduras: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading, and the supplemental funds appropriated 
in this Act that are in addition to the funds made available under title 
II of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 101(d) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)), shall be subject to the funding ceiling 
contained in section 580 of that Act, notwithstanding section 545 of 
that Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
may be charged to finance obligations for which appropriations available 
for other accounts under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
as amended, were charged after April 30, 1999, to finance obligations to 
address the effects of the hurricanes in Central America and the 
Caribbean and the earthquake in Colombia: Provided further, That the 
provisions of section 110 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended, shall not be applicable to any assistance furnished to address 
the effects of the hurricanes in Central America and the Caribbean and 
the earthquake in Colombia: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for nonproject 
assistance: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

[[Page 113 STAT. 70]]

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

           International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement

      For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $23,000,000, for additional counterdrug research and 
development activities: Provided, That such amount shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                           debt restructuring

    For an additional amount for ``Debt Restructuring'', $41,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That up to $25,000,000 may be 
used for a contribution to the Central America Emergency Trust Fund, 
administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                           MILITARY ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
for grants to enable the President to carry out section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, for grants only for Jordan, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2001: Provided, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be nonrepayable, notwithstanding section 23(b) and section 
23(c) of the Arms Export Control Act.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 401. The funds appropriated in this chapter are designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.
    Sec. 402. The value of articles, services, and military education 
and training authorized as of November 15, 1998, to be drawn down by the 
President under the authority of section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, shall not be counted against the 
ceiling limitation of that section.
    Sec. 403. <<NOTE: Termination date. East Timor.>> For an additional 
amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', $6,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2000, for assistance for election monitoring and 
related activities for East Timor: Provided, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent that an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 113 STAT. 71]]

    Sec. 404. Section 832(a) of the Western Hemisphere Drug Elimination 
Act (Public Law 105-277) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-701.>>  is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``Secretary of Agriculture'' and 
                inserting ``Secretary of State''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the Agricultural Research Service 
                of the Department of Agriculture'' and inserting ``the 
                Department of State''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``Any <<NOTE: Records.>>  record related to a contract entered into, 
or to an activity funded, under this subsection shall be exempted from 
disclosure as described in section 552(b)(3) of title 5, United States 
Code.''.

                                CHAPTER 5

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $12,612,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damage due to rain, winds, 
ice, snow, and other acts of nature, and to replace and repair power 
generation equipment: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount provided shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                     reconstruction and construction

    For an additional amount for ``Reconstruction and Construction'', 
$5,611,000, to remain available until expended, to address damages from 
Hurricane Georges and other natural disasters in Puerto Rico: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the amount provided shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
funds in this account may be transferred to and merged with the ``Forest 
and Rangeland Research'' account and the ``National Forest System'' 
account as needed to address emergency requirements in Puerto Rico.

[[Page 113 STAT. 72]]

                          OTHER RELATED AGENCY

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For an additional amount for ``Holocaust Memorial Council'', 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the Holocaust Museum 
to address security needs: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the amount 
provided shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request that includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 501. <<NOTE: Alaska.>>  Glacier Bay. (a) Dungeness Crab 
Fishermen.--Section 123(b) of the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(e) of division A of 
Public Law 105-277) <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>>  is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``February 1, 1999'' and inserting 
                ``August 1, 1999''; and
                    (B) by striking ``1996'' and inserting ``1998''; and
            (2)(A) by striking ``of any Dungeness crab pots or other 
        Dungeness crab gear, and of not more than one Dungeness crab 
        fishing vessel,''; and
            (B) by striking ``the period January 1, 1999, through 
        December 31, 2004, based on the individual's net earnings from 
        the Dungeness crab fishery during the period January 1, 1991, 
        through December 31, 1996.'' and inserting ``for the period 
        beginning January 1, 1999 that is equivalent in length to the 
        period established by such individual under paragraph (1), based 
        on the individual's net earnings from the Dungeness crab fishery 
        during such established period. In addition, such individual 
        shall be eligible to receive from the United States fair market 
        value for any Dungeness crab pots, related gear, and not more 
        than one Dungeness crab fishing vessel if such individual 
        chooses to relinquish to the United States such pots, related 
        gear, or vessel.''.

    (b) Others Affected by Fishery Closures and Restrictions.--Section 
123 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 
105-277), as amended, is amended further by redesignating subsection (c) 
as subsection (d) and inserting immediately after subsection (b) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) Others Affected by Fishery Closures and Restrictions.--The 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to provide $23,000,000 for a 
program developed with the concurrence of the State of Alaska to fairly 
compensate United States fish processors, fishing vessel crew members, 
communities, and others negatively affected by restrictions on fishing 
in Glacier Bay National Park. For the purpose of receiving compensation 
under the program

[[Page 113 STAT. 73]]

required by this subsection, a potential recipient shall provide a sworn 
and notarized affidavit to establish the extent of such negative 
effect.''.
    (c) Implementation.--Section 123 of the Department of the Interior 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(e) of 
division A of Public Law 105-277), <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>>  as 
amended, is amended further by inserting at the end the following new 
subsection:

    ``(e) <<NOTE: Publication.>>  Implementation and Effective Date.--
The Secretary of the Interior shall publish an interim final rule for 
the Federal implementation of paragraphs (2) through (5) of subsection 
(a) and shall provide an opportunity for public comment of no less than 
45 days on such interim final rule. <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
publication.>>  The final rule for the Federal implementation of 
paragraphs (2) through (5) of subsection (a) shall be published in the 
Federal Register no later than September 30, 1999 and shall take effect 
on September 30, 1999, except that the limitations in paragraphs (3) 
through (5) of such subsection shall not apply with respect to halibut 
fishing until November 15, 1999 or salmon troll fishing until December 
31, 1999. In the event that any individual eligible for compensation 
under subsection (b) has not received full compensation by June 15, 
1999, the Secretary shall provide partial compensation on such date to 
such individual and shall expeditiously provide full compensation 
thereafter.''.

    (d) For the purposes of making the payments authorized in section 
123 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as amended by this section, an additional 
$26,000,000 is hereby appropriated to ``Departmental Management, 
Department of the Interior'', to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,000,000 shall be an additional amount for compensation 
authorized by section 123(b) of such Act, as amended, and of which 
$23,000,000 shall be for compensation authorized by section 123(c) of 
such Act, as amended. The entire amount made available in this 
subsection is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)), and 
shall be available only if the President transmits to the Congress an 
official budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
as an emergency requirement as defined in such Act.

                                CHAPTER 6

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief'' for tornado-related 
damage in Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas and Tennessee, and for other 
disasters, $900,000,000 to remain available until expended, which shall 
be available only to the extent that the President designates an amount 
as an emergency requirement as defined in section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to such Act.

[[Page 113 STAT. 74]]

                   disaster assistance for unmet needs

    For ``Disaster assistance for unmet needs'', $230,000,000, which 
shall remain available until September 30, 2001, for use by the Director 
of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Director) only for disaster 
relief, buyout assistance, long-term recovery, and mitigation in 
communities affected by Presidentially-declared natural disasters 
designated during fiscal years 1998 and 1999, only to the extent funds 
are not made available for those activities by the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (under its ``Disaster relief'' program), the Small 
Business Administration, or the Army Corps of Engineers: Provided, That 
in administering these funds the Director shall allocate these funds to 
States to be administered by each State in conjunction with its Federal 
Emergency Management Agency Disaster Relief program: Provided further, 
That each State shall provide not less than 25 percent in non-Federal 
public matching funds or its equivalent value (other than administrative 
costs) for any funds allocated to the State under this heading: Provided 
further, That the Director shall allocate these funds based on the unmet 
needs arising from a Presidentially-declared disaster as identified by 
the Director as those which have not or will not be addressed by other 
Federal disaster assistance programs and for which it is deemed 
appropriate to supplement the efforts and available resources of States, 
local governments and disaster relief organizations: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Establishment.>>  That the Director shall establish 
review groups within FEMA to review each request by a State of its unmet 
needs and certify as to the actual costs associated with the unmet needs 
as well as the commitment and ability of each State to provide its match 
requirement: Provided further, That the Director shall implement all 
mitigation and buyout efforts in a manner consistent with the intent of 
the hazard mitigation grant program as authorized by section 404 of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as 
amended: Provided further, <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  
That the Director shall publish a notice in the Federal Register 
governing the allocation and use of the funds under this heading, 
including provisions for ensuring the compliance of the States with the 
requirements of this program: Provided further, <<NOTE: Records.>>  That 
10 days prior to distribution of funds, the Director shall submit a list 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, setting forth the 
proposed uses of funds and the most recent estimates of unmet needs: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Director shall submit 
quarterly reports to said Committees regarding the actual projects and 
needs for which funds have been provided under this heading: Provided 
further, That to the extent any funds under this heading are used in a 
manner inconsistent with the requirements of the program established 
under this heading and any rules issued pursuant thereto, the Director 
shall recapture an equivalent amount of funds from the State from any 
existing funds or future funds awarded to the State under this heading 
or any other program administered by the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent an official budget request, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount

[[Page 113 STAT. 75]]

is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    TITLE II--EMERGENCY NATIONAL SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                public law 480 program and grant accounts

    For an additional amount for ``Public Law 480 Program and Grant 
Accounts'' for assistance under title II of Public Law 480, 
$149,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $149,200,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                                CHAPTER 2

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'', $17,071,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

           security and maintenance of united states missions

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Security and Maintenance of 
United States Missions'', $50,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $45,500,000 shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes the designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

[[Page 113 STAT. 76]]

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    Notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic 
and Consular Service'', $2,929,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $500,000 shall be transferred to the Peace Corps and $450,000 
shall be transferred to the United States Information Agency, for 
evacuation and related costs: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$2,920,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$7,660,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$1,586,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$4,303,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Contingency Operations 
Transfer Fund'', $5,007,300,000, to remain available until expended:

[[Page 113 STAT. 77]]

Provided, That the entire amount made available under this 
heading is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That of such 
amount, $1,100,000,000 shall be available only to the extent that the 
President transmits to the Congress an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that: (1) specifies items which meet a critical 
readiness or sustainability need, to include replacement of expended 
munitions to maintain adequate inventories for future operations; and 
(2) includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds only to military personnel 
accounts; operation and maintenance accounts, including Overseas 
Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid; procurement accounts; research, 
development, test and evaluation accounts; the Defense Health Program 
appropriation; the National Defense Sealift Fund; and working capital 
fund accounts: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall be 
merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and for the 
same time period, as the appropriation to which transferred: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department of 
Defense: Provided further, That such funds may be used to execute 
projects or programs that were deferred in order to carry out military 
operations in and around Kosovo and in Southwest Asia, including efforts 
associated with the displaced Kosovar population: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                               PROCUREMENT

                        Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$431,100,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $431,100,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$40,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $40,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the

[[Page 113 STAT. 78]]

request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$178,200,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $178,200,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $35,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $35,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                Operational Rapid Response Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
in this Act and the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 
(Public Law 105-262), $300,000,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2000, is hereby made available only for the 
accelerated acquisition and deployment of military technologies and 
systems needed for the conduct of Operation Allied Force, or to provide 
accelerated acquisition and deployment of military technologies and 
systems as substitute or replacement systems for other United States 
regional commands which have had assets diverted as a result of 
Operation Allied Force: Provided, That funds under this heading may only 
be obligated after recommendations are made by the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council to the Secretary of Defense and after the approval of 
the Secretary of Defense, or his designee: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide written notification to the congressional defense committees 
prior to the transfer of any amount in excess of $10,000,000 to a 
specific program or project: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense may transfer funds made available under this heading only to 
operation and maintenance accounts, procurement accounts, and research, 
development, test and evaluation accounts: Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this section shall be in addition to 
the transfer authority

[[Page 113 STAT. 79]]

provided to the Department of Defense in this Act or any other Act: 
Provided further, That the entire amount made available in this section 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $300,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 2001. Section 8005 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262), <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2297.>>  is amended by 
striking ``$1,650,000,000'' and inserting ``$2,000,000,000''.

    Sec. 2002. Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in section 1006 
of Public Law 105-261, not to exceed $10,000,000 of funds appropriated 
by this Act may be available for contributions to the common funded 
budgets of NATO (as defined in section 1006(c)(1) of Public Law 105-261) 
for costs related to NATO operations in and around Kosovo.
    Sec. 2003. Funds appropriated by this Act and in Public Law 105-277, 
or made available by the transfer of funds in this Act and in Public Law 
105-277, for intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically 
authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).
    Sec. 2004. Notwithstanding section 5064(d) of the Federal 
Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-355), the special 
authorities provided under section 5064(c) of such Act shall apply with 
respect to all contracts awarded or modifications executed for the Joint 
Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) program from October 1, 1998 through 
September 30, 2000: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may award 
JDAM contracts and modifications on the same terms and conditions as 
contained in the JDAM contract F08626-94-C-0003.
    Sec. 2005. <<NOTE: President. NATO.>> (a) Efforts to Increase 
Burdensharing.--The President shall seek equitable reimbursement from 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), member nations of NATO, 
and other appropriate organizations and nations for the costs incurred 
by the United States Government in connection with Operation Allied 
Force.

    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 1999, the President shall 
prepare and submit to the Congress a report on--
            (1) all measures taken by the President pursuant to 
        subsection (a);
            (2) the amount of reimbursement received to date from each 
        organization and nation pursuant to subsection (a), including a 
        description of any commitments made by such organization or 
        nation to provide reimbursement; and
            (3) in the case of an organization or nation that has 
        refused to provide, or to commit to provide, reimbursement 
        pursuant to subsection (a), an explanation of the reasons 
        therefor.

    (c) Operation Allied Force.--In this section, the term ``Operation 
Allied Force'' means operations of the North Atlantic Treaty

[[Page 113 STAT. 80]]

Organization (NATO) conducted against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
(Serbia and Montenegro) during the period beginning on March 24, 1999, 
and ending on such date as NATO may designate, to resolve the conflict 
with respect to Kosovo.
    Sec. 2006. (a) <<NOTE: President. Reports.>>  Not more than 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
transmit to Congress a report, in both classified and unclassified form, 
on current United States participation in Operation Allied Force. The 
report should include information on the following matters:
            (1) a statement of the national security objectives involved 
        in United States participation in Operation Allied Force;
            (2) an accounting of all current active duty personnel 
        assigned to support Operation Allied Force and related 
        humanitarian operations around Kosovo to include total number, 
        service component and area of deployment (such accounting should 
        also include total numbers of personnel from other NATO 
        countries participating in the action);
            (3) additional planned deployment of active duty units in 
        the European Command area of operations to support Operation 
        Allied Force, between the date of the enactment of this Act and 
        the end of fiscal year 1999;
            (4) additional planned Reserve component mobilization, 
        including specific units to be called up between the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and the end of fiscal year 1999, to 
        support Operation Allied Force;
            (5) an accounting by the Joint Chiefs of Staff on the 
        transfer of personnel and materiel from other regional commands 
        to the United States European Command to support Operation 
        Allied Force and related humanitarian operations around Kosovo, 
        and an assessment by the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the impact any 
        such loss of assets has had on the war-fighting capabilities and 
        deterrence value of these other commands;
            (6) levels of humanitarian aid provided to the displaced 
        Kosovar community from the United States, NATO member nations, 
        and other nations (figures should be provided by country and the 
        type of assistance provided whether financial or in-kind); and
            (7) any significant revisions to the total cost estimate for 
        the deployment of United States forces involved in Operation 
        Allied Force through the end of fiscal year 1999.

    (b) Operation Allied Force.--In this section, the term ``Operation 
Allied Force'' means operations of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) conducted against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
(Serbia and Montenegro) during the period beginning on March 24, 1999, 
and ending on such date as NATO may designate, to resolve the conflict 
with respect to Kosovo.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 2007. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $1,124,900,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2000, is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense only for spare and repair 
parts and associated logistical support necessary for the maintenance of 
weapons systems and equipment: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That 
the Secretary of Defense shall provide written notification to the 
congressional defense committees prior to the

[[Page 113 STAT. 81]]

transfer of any funds: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
may transfer funds made available in this section only to operation and 
maintenance accounts and procurement accounts: Provided further, That 
the transfer authority provided in this section shall be in addition to 
the transfer authority provided to the Department of Defense in this Act 
or any other Act: Provided further, That the entire amount made 
available in this section is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for $1,124,900,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 2008. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $742,500,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000, is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense only for depot level 
maintenance and repair: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide written notification to the 
congressional defense committees prior to the transfer of any funds: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds made 
available in this section only to operation and maintenance accounts: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
shall be in addition to the transfer authority provided to the 
Department of Defense in this Act or any other Act: Provided further, 
That the entire amount made available in this section is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$742,500,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

    Sec. 2009. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $100,000,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000, is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense only for military recruiting 
and advertising initiatives, as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $31,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $12,700,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $23,600,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', $19,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', $1,000,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $12,700,000:

[[Page 113 STAT. 82]]

Provided, That the entire amount made available in this section is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $100,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 2010. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $200,200,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000, is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense only for military training, 
equipment maintenance, and associated support costs required to meet 
assigned readiness levels of United States military forces: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>>  That the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide written notification to the congressional defense committees 
prior to the transfer of any funds: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Defense may transfer funds made available in this section only to 
operation and maintenance accounts: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this section shall be in addition to the transfer 
authority provided to the Department of Defense in this Act or any other 
Act: Provided further, That the entire amount made available in this 
section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $200,200,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

    Sec. 2011. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999, $182,400,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2000, is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense only for base operations 
support costs at Department of Defense facilities, as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $60,300,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $23,800,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $27,500,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $47,700,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', $9,700,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', $7,200,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve'', 
        $100,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $6,100,000:

Provided, That the entire amount made available in this section is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That

[[Page 113 STAT. 83]]

the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $182,400,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2012. (a) In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Defense in other provisions of this Act, 
there is appropriated to the Department of Defense, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2000, and to be used only for 
increases during fiscal year 2000 in rates of military basic pay and for 
increased payments during fiscal year 2000 to the Department of Defense 
Military Retirement Fund, $1,838,426,000, to be available as follows:
            ``Military Personnel, Army'', $559,533,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $436,773,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', $177,980,000;
            ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', $471,892,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', $40,574,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', $29,833,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', $7,820,000;
            ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', $13,143,000;
            ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $70,416,000; and
            ``National Guard Personnel, Air Force'', $30,462,000.

    (b) The entire amount made available in this section--
            (1) is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
        requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
        Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended (2 
        U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)); and
            (2) shall be available only if the President transmits to 
        the Congress an official budget request for $1,838,426,000, that 
        includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
        emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and 
        Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    (c) The amounts provided in this section may be obligated only to 
the extent required for increases in rates of military basic pay, and 
for increased payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, that become effective during fiscal year 2000 pursuant to 
provisions of law subsequently enacted in authorizing legislation.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                  Agency for International Development

                    international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$163,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency

[[Page 113 STAT. 84]]

Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                   other bilateral economic assistance

                          economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$105,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000, for 
assistance for Albania, Macedonia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, 
Montenegro, and Romania, and for investigations and related activities 
in Kosovo and in adjacent entities and countries regarding war crimes: 
Provided, That these funds shall be available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law except section 533 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained 
in division A, section 101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)): Provided 
further, That the requirement for a notification through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations contained in 
subsection (b)(3) of section 533 shall be deemed to be satisfied if the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified at least 10 days prior to the 
obligation of such funds.

           assistance for eastern europe and the baltic states

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the 
Baltic States'', $120,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2000, of which up to $1,000,000 may be used for administrative costs of 
the United States Agency for International Development: Provided, That 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated and expended 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                           Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$266,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2000, of which not 
more than $500,000 is for administrative expenses: Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading that are made available for the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees shall be obligated 
and expended subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the requirement for 
a notification through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations contained in the preceding proviso shall be 
deemed to be satisfied if the Committees are notified at least 10 days 
prior to the obligation of such funds: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 113 STAT. 85]]

      united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For an additional amount for the ``United States Emergency Refugee 
and Migration Assistance Fund'', and subject to the terms and conditions 
under that heading, $165,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2013. The funds appropriated in this chapter are designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.
    Sec. 2014. The value of commodities and services authorized by the 
President through March 31, 1999, to be drawn down under the authority 
of section 552(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, 
to support international relief efforts relating to the Kosovo conflict 
shall not be counted against the ceiling limitation of that section: 
Provided, That such assistance relating to the Kosovo conflict provided 
pursuant to section 552(a)(2) may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law.

                                CHAPTER 5

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                Administration for Children and Families

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance'', 
such sums as necessary to assist in the temporary resettlement of 
displaced Kosovar Albanians, not to exceed $100,000,000, which shall 
remain available through September 30, 2001: Provided, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
Congress designates the entire amount as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                                CHAPTER 6

                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION TRANSFER FUND

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For emergency expenses incurred by United States military forces in 
support of overseas operations; $475,000,000, to remain available for 
transfer until September 30, 2003: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Defense may transfer these funds only to military

[[Page 113 STAT. 86]]

construction accounts: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
authority contained in this or any other Act: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may be obligated 
or expended to carry out military construction projects not otherwise 
authorized by law: Provided further, That the entire amount made 
available under this heading is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That this amount shall be available only to the extent that the 
President transmits to the Congress an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 7

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating expenses'', $200,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $200,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                 TITLE III--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

               DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $1,300,000.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                          Bureau of the Census

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For an additional amount for expenses necessary to conduct the 
decennial census, $44,900,000, to remain available until

[[Page 113 STAT. 87]]

expended: Provided, That of this amount $10,900,000 is for costs 
associated with establishing 520 Local Census Offices; $4,200,000 is for 
preparation of training and field deployment kits for census 
enumerators; $2,000,000 is for costs associated with the Telephone 
Questionnaire Assistance program infrastructure; $9,100,000 is for 
automated data processing and telecommunications to support increased 
field enumeration activities; $3,700,000 is for administrative systems 
to support increased field enumeration activities; and $15,000,000 is 
for advertising and 
promotion <<NOTE: Deadline. President. Budget.>> programs: Provided 
further, That not later than June 1, 1999, the President shall submit to 
the Congress a revised budget request for fiscal year 2000 for the 
decennial census.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For the necessary expenses of additional research, management, and 
enforcement activities in the Northeast Multispecies fishery, 
$1,880,000, to remain available until expended.

                              THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $921,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 2

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'', 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended, under authority of the 
Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 (43 U.S.C. 2201 
et seq.) to purchase water in accordance with such Act from the Central 
Arizona Project (or if no water is available for purchase from the 
Central Arizona Project from any other appropriate source) to maintain 
an appropriate pool of stored water for fish and wildlife purposes at 
the San Carlos Lake in Arizona.

                                CHAPTER 3

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    National Commission on Terrorism

    For necessary expenses for the National Commission on Terrorism, as 
authorized by section 591 of the Foreign Operations, 
Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in division A, section 101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental  Appropriations Act, 1999

[[Page 113 STAT. 88]]

(Public Law 105-277)), $839,500, to remain available until expended.

       United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-292), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

               International Affairs Technical Assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Department of the Treasury, 
International affairs technical assistance'', $1,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000, for the operation and expenses of 
the International Financial Institution Advisory Commission and the 
International Monetary Fund Advisory Committee as authorized by sections 
603 and 610(b) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 
101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)).

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    Of the funds provided under this heading in prior appropriations 
Acts for the Automated Land and Mineral Record System, $1,000,000 shall 
be available until expended to meet increased workload requirements 
stemming from the anticipated higher volume of coalbed methane 
Applications for Permits to Drill in the Powder River Basin: Provided, 
That unless there is a written agreement in place between the coal 
mining operator and the gas producer, the funds made available herein 
shall not be used to process or approve coalbed methane Applications for 
Permits to Drill for well sites that are located within an area, which 
as of the date of the coalbed methane Application for Permit to Drill, 
are covered by: (1) a coal lease; (2) a coal mining permit; or (3) an 
application for a coal mining lease. Nothing in this paragraph shall be 
construed or operate as a restriction on current resources appropriated 
to the Department of the Interior.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                           (transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$1,136,000, to remain available until expended for suppression of 
western spruce budworm: Provided, That such funds shall be

[[Page 113 STAT. 89]]

derived by transfer of funds provided in previous appropriations Acts 
under the heading ``Forest Service, National Forest System''.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Trust Programs'', 
$21,800,000, to remain available until expended, of which $6,800,000 is 
for activities pursuant to the Trust Management Improvement Project High 
Level Implementation Plan and $15,000,000 is to support litigation 
involving individual Indian trust accounts: Provided, That litigation 
support funds may, as needed, be transferred to and merged with the 
``Operation of Indian Programs'' account in the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account in the Office of the 
Solicitor, the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account in Departmental 
Management, the ``Royalty and Offshore Minerals Management'' account in 
the Minerals Management Service and the ``Management of Lands and 
Resources'' account in the Bureau of Land Management.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        wildland fire management

    Of the funds made available under this heading for fire operations 
in previous Acts of appropriation (exclusive of amounts for hazardous 
fuels reduction), $100,000,000 shall be transferred to the Knutson-
Vandenberg fund established pursuant to section 3 of Public Law 71-319 
(16 U.S.C. 576 et seq.) within 10 days of the enactment of this Act.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3001. The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 101(e) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended under the heading ``Forest 
Service, Reconstruction and Construction'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-
270.>>  by inserting before the final period the <<NOTE: Auburn 
University. Alabama.>> following: ``: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated for 
Forest Service construction of a new forestry research facility at 
Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama, shall be available for a direct 
payment to Auburn University for this purpose: Provided further, That if 
within the life of the facility the USDA Forest Service needs additional 
space for collaborative laboratory activities on the Auburn University 
campus, Auburn University shall provide such laboratory space within the 
new facility constructed with these funds, free of any charge for 
rent''.

    Sec. 3002. None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to issue and finalize 
the rule to revise 43 CFR Part 3809, published on February 9, 1999 at 64 
Fed. Reg. 6421 or the Draft Environmental Impact Statement on Surface 
Management Regulations for Locatable Mineral Operations, published in 
February, 1999, unless the Secretary has provided a period of not less 
than 120 days

[[Page 113 STAT. 90]]

for accepting public comment on the proposed rule after the report of 
the National Academy of Sciences' Committee on Hardrock Mining on 
Federal Lands, authorized and required by the Department of the Interior 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division 
A, section 101(e) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is submitted to the 
appropriate Federal agencies, the Congress, and the Governors of the 
affected States in accordance with the requirements of that Act.
    Sec. 3003. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be used 
to issue a notice of final rulemaking with respect to the valuation of 
crude oil for royalty purposes, including a rulemaking derived from 
proposed rules published in 63 Federal Register 6113 (1998), 62 Federal 
Register 36030, and 62 Federal Register 3742 (1997) until October 1, 
1999, or until there is a negotiated agreement on the rule.
    Sec. 3004. Section 328 of the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277, division A, 
section 1(e), title III) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-291.>>  is amended by 
striking ``none of the funds in this Act'' and inserting ``none of the 
funds provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service or Bureau of 
Indian Affairs''.

    Sec. 3005. <<NOTE: Alaska.>> A payment of $800,000 from the total 
amount of $1,000,000 for construction of the Pike's Peak Summit House, 
as specified in Conference Report 105-337, accompanying the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 
1998, Public Law 105-83, and payments of $2,000,000 for the Borough of 
Ketchikan to participate in a study of the feasibility and dynamics of 
manufacturing veneer products in Southeast Alaska and $200,000 for 
construction of the Pike's Peak Summit House, as specified in Conference 
Report 105-825 accompanying the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 1999 (as contained in 
division A, section 101(e) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)), shall be 
paid in lump sum and shall be considered direct payments, for the 
purposes of all applicable law except that these direct grants may not 
be used for lobbying activities.

    Sec. 3006. <<NOTE: Washington.>>  Millsites Opinion. (a) Prohibition 
on Millsite Limitations.--Notwithstanding the opinion dated November 7, 
1997, by the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior concerning 
millsites under the general mining law (referred to in this section as 
the ``opinion''), in accordance with the millsite provisions of the 
Bureau of Land Management Handbook for Mineral Examiners H-3890-1, page 
III-8 (dated 1989), and section 2811.33 of the Forest Service Manual 
(dated 1990), the Department of the Interior and the Department of 
Agriculture shall not limit the number or acreage of millsites based on 
the ratio between the number or acreage of millsites and the number or 
acreage of associated lode or placer claims with respect to the Crown 
Jewel project, Okanogan County, Washington for any fiscal year.

    (b) Effect on Prior Approvals and Records of Decision.--As soon as 
practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Departments 
of the Interior and Agriculture shall approve the plan of operations and 
reinstate the record of decision for the Crown Jewel project.

[[Page 113 STAT. 91]]

    (c) No patent application or plan of operations submitted prior to 
the date of the enactment of this Act shall be denied pursuant to the 
opinion of the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior dated 
November 7, 1997.

                                CHAPTER 5

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Office of the Secretary

                     general departmental management

    For an additional amount for ``General departmental management'', 
$1,000,000, to reduce the backlog of pending nursing home appeals before 
the Departmental Appeals Board.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                     education for the disadvantaged

    For additional amounts to carry out subpart 2 of part A of title I 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, $56,377,000, 
which shall be allocated, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
only to those local educational agencies that received a Concentration 
Grant under the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1998, but 
are not eligible to receive such a grant for fiscal year 1999: Provided, 
That the Secretary of Education shall use the funds appropriated under 
this paragraph to provide each such local educational agency an amount 
equal to the Concentration Grant the agency received in fiscal year 
1998, ratably reduced, if necessary, to ensure that local educational 
agencies receiving funds under this supplemental appropriation receive 
no greater share of their hold-harmless amounts than is received by 
other local educational agencies: Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated under this paragraph shall become available on October 1, 
1999 and shall remain available through September 30, 2000, for the 
academic year 1999-2000: Provided further, That the Secretary shall not 
take into account the funds appropriated under this paragraph in 
determining State allocations under any other program administered by 
the Secretary in any fiscal year.

                            higher education

                           (transfer of funds)

    Of the funds made available for the Education Research, Statistics, 
and Improvement account in section 101(f ) of Public Law 105-277, 
$1,500,000 are transferred to the Higher Education account to provide 
additional funds to carry out part B of title III of the Higher 
Education Act.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                   Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For an additional amount for the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting, to remain available until expended, $30,700,000 to be 
available for fiscal year 1999, and $17,300,000 to be available for 
fiscal

[[Page 113 STAT. 92]]

year 2000: Provided, That such funds be made available to National 
Public Radio, as the designated manager of the Public Radio Satellite 
System, for acquisition of satellite capacity.

                     GENERAL PROVISION, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3007. <<NOTE: South Dakota.>>  White River School District #47-
1. From any unobligated funds that are available to the Secretary of 
Education to carry out section 306(a)(1) of the Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 1996, the Secretary shall provide not more than 
$239,000, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines 
appropriate, to the White River School District #47-1, White River, 
South Dakota, to be used to repair damage caused by water infiltration 
at the White River High School, which shall remain available until 
expended.

                                CHAPTER 6

                        CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

                    salaries, officers and employees

                              (rescission)

    Immediately upon the enactment of this Act, $3,521,000, appropriated 
under this heading in Public Law 105-275, are rescinded: Provided, That 
for replacement of the existing House of Representatives payroll system, 
$3,521,000 for the Chief Administrative Officer, to remain available 
until expended.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                         house office buildings

                          house page dormitory

    For necessary expenses for a House Page Dormitory, $3,760,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Architect of the 
Capitol shall transfer to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House 
of Representatives such portion of the funds made available under this 
paragraph as may be required for expenses incurred by the Chief 
Administrative Officer, subject to the approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives: Provided further, That 
section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (41 U.S.C. 5) 
shall not apply to the funds made available under this paragraph.

                      o'neill house office building

    For necessary expenses for life safety renovations to the O'Neill 
House Office Building, $1,800,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States 
(41 U.S.C. 5) shall not apply to the funds made available under this 
paragraph.

[[Page 113 STAT. 93]]

                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3008. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-10.>>  (a) The aggregate amount 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-
sum allowance for the Office of the Minority Leader of the House of 
Representatives and the aggregate amount otherwise authorized to be 
appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-sum allowance for the Office 
of the Majority Whip of the House of Representatives shall each be 
increased by $333,000.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2000 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 3009. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-11.>>  (a) Each office described under 
the heading ``HOUSE LEADERSHIP OFFICES'' in the Act making 
appropriations for the legislative branch for a fiscal year may transfer 
any amounts appropriated for the office under such heading among the 
various categories of allowances and expenses for the office under such 
heading.

    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any amounts 
appropriated for official expenses.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 1999 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 3010. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Effective on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the lump sum allowance authorization amount for 
certain offices shall be adjusted as follows:
            (1) The allowance for the Chief Deputy Majority Whips is 
        increased by $25,000.
            (2) The allowance for the Chief Deputy Minority Whips is 
        increased by $25,000.

    Sec. 3011. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2452a note.>>  Russian Leadership Program. 
(a) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to establish, in 
accordance with the provisions of this section--
            (1) a pilot program within the Library of Congress for 
        fiscal year 1999; and
            (2) a permanent program within the Executive agency 
        designated by the President of the United States for fiscal 
        years 2000 and thereafter,

to enable emerging political leaders of Russia at all levels of 
government to gain significant, firsthand exposure to the American free 
market economic system and the operation of American democratic 
institutions through visits to governments and communities at comparable 
levels in the United States.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The head of the administering agency shall 
        annually award grants to government or community organizations 
        in the United States that seek to establish programs under which 
        those organizations will host eligible Russians for the purpose 
        described in subsection (a).
            (2) Duration.--The period of stay in the United States for 
        any eligible Russian supported with grant funds under this 
        section shall not exceed 30 days.
            (3) Limitation.--The number of eligible Russians supported 
        with grant funds under this section shall not exceed 3,000 in 
        any fiscal year.
            (4) Administration.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, the head of the administering agency--

[[Page 113 STAT. 94]]

                          (i) may contract with nongovernmental 
                      organizations having expertise in carrying out the 
                      activities described in subsection (a) for the 
                      purpose of carrying out the administrative 
                      functions of the program (other than the awarding 
                      of grants); and
                          (ii) may, without regard to the civil service 
                      laws and regulations (or, in the case of the 
                      Librarian of Congress, any requirement for 
                      competition in hiring), appoint and terminate an 
                      executive director and such other additional 
                      personnel as may be necessary to enable the 
                      administering agency to perform its duties under 
                      this section.
                    (B) Waiver of competitive bidding.--The Librarian of 
                Congress, after consultation with the Joint Committee on 
                the Library of Congress, may enter into contracts under 
                subparagraph (A)(i) to carry out the pilot program 
                during fiscal year 1999 without regard to section 3709 
                of the Revised Statutes or any other requirement for 
                competitive contracting or the providing of notice of 
                contracting opportunities.

    (c) Use of Funds.--Grants awarded under subsection (b) shall be used 
to pay--
            (1) the costs and expenses incurred by each program 
        participant in traveling between Russia and the United States 
        and in traveling within the United States;
            (2) the costs of providing lodging in the United States to 
        each program participant, whether in public accommodations or in 
        private homes; and
            (3) such additional administrative expenses incurred by 
        organizations in carrying out the program as the head of the 
        administering agency may prescribe.

    (d) Application.--
            (1) In general.--Each organization in the United States 
        desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application 
        to the head of the administering agency at such time, in such 
        manner, and accompanied by such information as such head may 
        reasonably require.
            (2) Contents.--Each application submitted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) describe the activities for which assistance 
                under this section is sought;
                    (B) include the number of program participants to be 
                supported;
                    (C) describe the qualifications of the individuals 
                who will be participating in the program; and
                    (D) provide such additional assurances as the head 
                of the administering agency determines to be essential 
                to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 
                section.
            (3) Waiver.--The Librarian of Congress may waive the 
        requirement of this subsection in carrying out the pilot program 
        during fiscal year 1999.

    (e) <<NOTE: Establishment.>>  Advisory Board.--
            (1) In general.--There is established a Russian Leadership 
        Program Advisory Board which shall advise the head of the 
        administering agency as to the carrying out of the permanent 
        program during fiscal years 2000 and thereafter.

[[Page 113 STAT. 95]]

            (2) Membership.--The Advisory Board under paragraph (1) 
        shall consist of--
                    (A) two members appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives, of whom one shall be 
                designated by the Majority Leader of the House of 
                Representatives and one shall be designated by the 
                Minority Leader of the House of Representatives;
                    (B) two members appointed by the President pro 
                tempore of the Senate, of whom one shall be designated 
                by the Majority Leader of the Senate and one shall be 
                designated by the Minority Leader of the Senate;
                    (C) the Librarian of Congress;
                    (D) a private individual with expertise in 
                international exchange programs, designated by the 
                Librarian of Congress; and
                    (E) an officer or employee of the administering 
                agency, designated by the head of the administering 
                agency.
            (3) Terms.--Each member appointed under paragraph (2) shall 
        serve for a term of 3 years. Any vacancy shall be filled in the 
        same manner as the original appointment and the individual so 
        appointed shall serve for the remainder of the term.

    (f ) Reporting.--The head of the administering agency shall, not 
later than 3 months following the close of each fiscal year for which 
such agency administered the program, report to Congress with respect to 
the conduct of such program during such fiscal year. Such report shall 
include information with respect to the number of participants in the 
program and the cost of the program, and any recommendations on 
improvements necessary to enable the program to carry out the purposes 
of this section.
    (g) Funding.--
            (1) Fiscal year 1999.--
                    (A) In general.--Of funds made available under the 
                heading ``SENATE'' under title I of the Legislative 
                Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-275; 112 Stat. 
                2430 et seq.), $10,000,000 shall be made available, 
                subject to the approval of the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate, to the administering 
                agency to carry out the program.
                    (B) Use of funds at close of fiscal year.--Funds 
                made available under this paragraph which are unexpended 
                and unobligated as of the close of fiscal year 1999 
                shall no longer be available for such purpose and shall 
                be available for the purpose originally appropriated.
            (2) Fiscal year 2000 and subsequent fiscal years.--
                    (A) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the administering 
                agency for fiscal years 2000 and thereafter such sums as 
                may be necessary to carry out the program.
                    (B) Availability of funds.--Amounts appropriated 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A) are authorized to remain 
                available until expended.

    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Administering agency.--The term ``administering agency'' 
        means--
                    (A) for fiscal year 1999, the Library of Congress; 
                and

[[Page 113 STAT. 96]]

                    (B) for fiscal year 2000, and subsequent fiscal 
                years, the Executive agency designated by the President 
                of the United States under subsection (a)(2).
            (2) Eligible russian.--The term ``eligible Russian'' means a 
        Russian national who is an emerging political leader at any 
        level of government.
            (3) Program.--The term ``program'' means the grant program 
        established under this section.
            (4) Program participant.--The term ``program participant'' 
        means an eligible Russian selected for participation in the 
        program.

                                CHAPTER 7

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'' to cover the incremental costs arising from the consequences of 
Hurricane Georges, $6,400,000, as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2854, to 
remain available until September 30, 2003.

                          Family Housing, Army

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an additional amount 
for ``Family Housing, Army'', to provide for the construction and 
renovation of family housing units at Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
for family housing initiatives at Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico pursuant to 
10 U.S.C. 2883.

                                CHAPTER 8

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'' for necessary 
expenses resulting from the crash of TWA Flight 800, $2,300,000: 
Provided, That the entire amount is available only for costs associated 
with rental of the facility in Calverton, New York.

                                CHAPTER 9

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, $4,500,000 is appropriated for the expansion of the National 
Tracing Center, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 113 STAT. 97]]

                             POSTAL SERVICE

                   Payments to the Postal Service Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to the Postal Service Fund'' 
for revenue forgone reimbursement pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2401(d), 
$29,000,000.

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, an additional 
$2,500,000 is appropriated for drug control activities: of which 
$750,000 shall be used specifically to expand the Southwest Border High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area for the State of New Mexico to include 
Rio Arriba County, Santa Fe County, and San Juan County, New Mexico, 
which are hereby designated as part of the Southwest Border High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Area for the State of New Mexico; of which 
$500,000 shall be used for national efforts related to methamphetamine 
reduction efforts; of which $750,000 shall be used for the Southwest 
Border High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area for the State of Arizona, 
specifically to fund United States Border Patrol anti-drug assistance to 
border communities in Cochise County, Arizona; and of which $500,000 
shall be for the Washington-Baltimore High Intensity Drug Trafficking 
Area for support of the Cross-Border Initiative: Provided, That no funds 
may be obligated or expended for the Southwest Border High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Area for the State of Arizona without prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and the Senate.

                               CHAPTER 10

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                   community development block grants

    Of any excess amounts appropriated for any fiscal year under this 
heading, $3,446,000 shall be made available for grants for service 
coordinators and congregate services for the elderly and disabled: 
Provided, That in distributing such amount, the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development shall give priority to public housing agencies that 
submitted eligible applications for renewal of fiscal year 1995 elderly 
service coordinator grants pursuant to the Notice of Funding 
Availability for Service Coordinator Funds for fiscal year 1998, as 
published in the Federal Register on June 1, 1998.

[[Page 113 STAT. 98]]

                     Federal Housing Administration

              fha-mutual mortgage insurance program account

    The limitation on commitments to guarantee loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 203(b) of the National Housing Act, as amended, is 
increased by an additional $30,000,000,000.

                Government National Mortgage Association

 guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    The limitation on commitments to guarantee loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended, is 
increased by an additional $50,000,000,000.

                      Management and Administration

                       office of inspector general

    Under this heading in Public Law 105-276, add the words, ``to remain 
available until September 30, 2000,'' after ``$81,910,000,''.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                  National Credit Union Administration

                       central liquidity facility

    During fiscal year 2000, gross obligations of the Central Liquidity 
Facility for the principal amount of new direct loans to member credit 
unions shall not exceed the amount authorized by title III of the 
National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility Act (12 U.S.C. 1795).

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3012. <<NOTE: California.>>  Notwithstanding the sixth 
undesignated paragraph under the heading ``Community planning and 
development--Community development block grants'' in title II of Public 
Law 105-276 and the related provisions of the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference to accompany such Act (House 
Report 105-769) for the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grants for 
targeted economic investments for Project Restore of Los Angeles, 
California and for the Southeast Rio Vista Family YMCA shall, 
notwithstanding such provision, be made available as follows:
            (1) $250,000 shall be for a grant to the Los Angeles Civic 
        Center Public Partnership, to revitalize and redevelop the Civic 
        Center neighborhood; and
            (2) $100,000 shall be for a grant to the Southeast Rio Vista 
        Family YMCA, for development of a child care center in the City 
        of Huntington Park, California.

    Sec. 3013. <<NOTE: Maryland.>>  Notwithstanding section 202 of the 
Housing Act of 1959, of the amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1999 
under the Housing for Special Populations heading in title II of Public 
Law 105-276, $1,000,000 shall be made available to the Maryland 
Department of Housing and Community Development for work

[[Page 113 STAT. 99]]

associated with the building of Caritas House and for expansion of the 
St. Ann Adult Medical Day Care facility as directed by the Senate Report 
and Conference Report for such Act.

    Sec. 3014. <<NOTE: Pennsylvania.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or other requirement, the Township of North Union, 
Fayette County, Pennsylvania, is authorized to retain any land 
disposition proceeds or urban renewal grant funds remaining from the 
Industrial Park Number 1 Urban Renewal Project (PA-R-325 and B-78-UR-42-
0204) and to use such funds in accordance with the requirements of the 
community development block grant program as provided in title I of the 
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, with respect 
to eligibility and national objectives of section 105 of such Act. The 
Township of North Union shall retain such funds in a lump sum and shall 
be entitled to retain and use past and future earnings from such funds, 
including any interest.

    Sec. 3015. <<NOTE: Utah.>>  The $2,200,000 appropriated in Public 
Law 105-276 to meet sewer infrastructure needs associated with the 2002 
Winter Olympic Games in accordance with House Report 105-769 shall be 
awarded to Wasatch County, Utah, for both water and sewer.

    Sec. 3016. <<NOTE: Idaho.>>  Of the amount appropriated under the 
heading ``Environmental programs and management'' in Public Law 105-276, 
$1,300,000 shall be transferred to the ``State and tribal assistance 
grants'' account for a grant for water and wastewater infrastructure 
projects in the State of Idaho.

    Sec. 3017. <<NOTE: Louisiana.>>  The $3,045,000 appropriated in 
Public Law 105-276 for wastewater infrastructure needs for Grand Isle, 
Louisiana, in accordance with House Report 105-769, may also be used for 
drinking water supply needs for Grand Isle, Louisiana.

                               CHAPTER 11

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS TITLE

    Sec. 3018. Division A, section 101(a), title XI, section 1122(c) of 
Public Law 105-277 <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>>  is amended by inserting 
after ``basis'' the following: ``: Provided, That no administrative 
costs shall be charged against this program which would have been 
incurred otherwise''.

    Sec. 3019. (a) Section 339(b)(3) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1989(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the comma and the remainder of paragraph (3) 
        following the comma; and
            (2) by inserting a period after ``(1)''.

    (b) Section 353(c)(3)(C) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2001(c)(3)(C)) is amended by striking ``100 
percent'' and inserting ``110 percent''.
    Sec. 3020. (a) Loan Deficiency Payments for Club Wheat Producers.--
In making loan deficiency payments available under section 135 of the 
Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7235) to producers of club 
wheat, the Secretary of Agriculture may not assess a premium adjustment 
on the amount that would otherwise be computed for club wheat under the 
section to reflect the premium that is paid for club wheat to ensure its 
availability to create a blended specialty product known as western 
white wheat.

[[Page 113 STAT. 100]]

    (b) Retroactive Application.--As soon as practicable after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall make a 
payment to each producer of club wheat who received a discounted loan 
deficiency payment under section 135 of the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7235) before that date as a result of the 
assessment of a premium adjustment against club wheat. The amount of the 
payment for a producer shall be equal to the difference between--
            (1) the loan deficiency payment that would have been made to 
        the producer in the absence of the premium adjustment; and
            (2) the loan deficiency payment actually received by the 
        producer.

    (c) Funding Source.--The Secretary shall use funds available to 
provide marketing assistance loans and loan deficiency payments under 
subtitle C of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7231 et 
seq.) to make the payments required by subsection (b).
    Sec. 3021. Notwithstanding 50 U.S.C. App. 1989b et seq. and in 
addition to any funds previously appropriated for this purpose, the 
Attorney General may make available from any funds available to the 
Department of Justice not more than $4,300,000 for the purpose of paying 
restitution to individuals: (1) who are eligible for restitution under 
the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (50 U.S.C. App. 1989b et seq.) and who 
have filed timely claims for restitution; or (2) who are found eligible 
under the settlement agreement in the case of Carmen Mochizuki et al. v. 
United States (Case No. 97-294C, United States Court of Federal Claims) 
and filed timely claims covered by the agreement.
    Sec. 3022. <<NOTE: Alaska. Whales.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the taking of a Cook Inlet beluga whale under the 
exemption provided in section 101(b) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1371(a)) between the date of the enactment of this Act and 
October 1, 2000, shall be considered a violation of such Act unless such 
taking occurs pursuant to a cooperative agreement between the National 
Marine Fisheries Service and affected Alaska Native organizations.

    Sec. 3023. Section 626 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in section 101(b) of division A of Public Law 105-
277) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-117.>>  is repealed.

    Sec. 3024. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director 
of the Office of Crime Victims of the Office of Justice Programs, 
Department of Justice, may make grants, as provided in the Victims of 
Crime Act of 1984, as amended, to victim service organizations and 
public agencies (including Federal, State, and local governments and 
non-profit organizations) that will provide emergency or on-going 
assistance to the victims of the bombing of Pan Am flight 103. These 
grants shall be used only to provide emergency relief (including 
compensation, assistance, and crisis response) and other related victim 
services.
    Sec. 3025. Section 617 of the Department of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
added by section 101(b) of division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-
277)) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

[[Page 113 STAT. 101]]

    ``(a) None of the funds made available in this Act or any other Act 
hereafter enacted may be used to issue or renew a fishing permit or 
authorization for any fishing vessel of the United States greater than 
165 feet in registered length, of more than 750 gross registered tons, 
or that has an engine or engines capable of producing a total of more 
than 3,000 shaft horsepower as specified in the permit application 
required under part 648.4(a)(5) of title 50, Code of Federal 
Regulations, part 648.12 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, and 
the authorization required under part 648.80(d)(2) of title 50, Code of 
Federal Regulations, to engage in fishing for Atlantic mackerel or 
herring (or both) under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), unless the regional fishery 
management council of jurisdiction recommends after October 21, 1998, 
and the Secretary of Commerce approves, conservation and management 
measures in accordance with such Act to allow such vessel to engage in 
fishing for Atlantic mackerel or herring (or both).''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``subsection (a)(1)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)''.

    Sec. 3026. The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained 
in division A, section 101(b) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended--
            (a) in title I, under the heading ``Legal Activities, 
        Salaries and Expenses, General Legal Activities'', <<NOTE: 112 
        Stat. 2681-52.>>  by inserting ``and shall remain available 
        until September 30, 2000'' after ``Holocaust Assets in the 
        United States''; and
            (b) in title IV, under the heading ``Department of State, 
        Administration of Foreign Affairs, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-93.>>  by inserting ``and 
        shall remain available until September 30, 2000'' after 
        ``Holocaust Assets in the United States''.

    Sec. 3027. (a) The American Fisheries Act (title II of division C of 
Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in section 202(b) <<NOTE: 46 USC 31322.>>  by inserting 
        a comma after ``United States Code'';
            (2) in section 207(d)(1)(A) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  by 
        striking ``Fishery Conservation and Management'';
            (3) in section 208(b)(1) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  by 
        striking ``615085'' and inserting ``633219'';
            (4) in section 209(4) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  by 
        striking ``Uoited'' and inserting ``United'';
            (5) in section 210(g), <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  by 
        striking the first sentence and inserting ``The violation of any 
        of the requirements of this subtitle or any regulation or permit 
        issued pursuant to this subtitle shall be considered the 
        commission of an act prohibited by section 307 of the Magnuson-
        Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1857), and sections 308, 309, 310, and 
        311 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1858, 1859, 1860, and 1861) shall 
        apply to any such violation in the same manner as to the 
        commission of an act prohibited by section 307 of such Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1857).'';
            (6) in section 213(c)(1) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  by 
        striking ``title'' and inserting ``subtitle''; and
            (7) in section 213(c)(2) by striking ``title'' and inserting 
        ``subtitle''.

    (b) Section 12122(c) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting a comma after ``statement or representations''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 102]]

    (c) <<NOTE: 36 USC 12102 note.>>  The limitation on registered 
length contained in section 12102(c)(6) of title 46, United States Code, 
shall not apply to a vessel used solely in any menhaden fishery which is 
located in the Gulf of Mexico or along the Atlantic coast south of the 
area under the authority of the New England Fishery Management Council 
for so long as such vessel is used in such fishery.

    Sec. 3028. Section 113 of the Department of Justice Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (section 101(b) of division A of Public Law 105-
277) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-67.>>  is amended by striking all after the 
second comma and inserting ``the terms `tribe', `Indian tribe' or 
`tribal' mean of or relating to an Indian tribe as that term is defined 
in section 4(e) of the Indian Self Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, as amended; 25 U.S.C. 450b(e) 
(1998)).''.

    Sec. 3029. (a) <<NOTE: Hunt Building Corporation. Ellsworth Housing 
Limited Partnership. South Dakota.>>  Availability of Settlement 
Amount.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount received 
by the United States in settlement of the claims described in subsection 
(b) shall be available as specified in subsection (c).

    (b) Covered Claims.--The claims referred to in this subsection are 
the claims of the United States against Hunt Building Corporation and 
Ellsworth Housing Limited Partnership relating to the design and 
construction of an 828-unit family housing project at Ellsworth Air 
Force Base, South Dakota.
    (c) Specified Uses.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amount 
        referred to in subsection (a) shall be available as follows:
                    (A) Of the portion of such amount received in fiscal 
                year 1999--
                          (i) an amount equal to 3 percent of such 
                      portion shall be credited to the Department of 
                      Justice Working Capital Fund for the civil debt 
                      collection litigation activities of the Department 
                      with respect to the claims referred to in 
                      subsection (b), as provided for in section 108 of 
                      Public Law 103-121 (107 Stat. 1164; 28 U.S.C. 527 
                      note); and
                          (ii) of the balance of such portion--
                                    (I) an amount equal to \7/8\ of such 
                                balance shall be available to the 
                                Secretary of Transportation for purposes 
                                of construction of an access road on 
                                Interstate Route 90 at Box Elder, South 
                                Dakota (item 1741 of the table contained 
                                in section 1602 of the Transportation 
                                Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public 
                                Law 105-178; 112 Stat. 320)); and
                                    (II) an amount equal to \1/8\ of 
                                such balance shall be available to the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force for purposes 
                                of real property and facility 
                                maintenance projects at Ellsworth Air 
                                Force Base.
                    (B) Of the portion of such amount received in fiscal 
                year 2000--
                          (i) an amount equal to 3 percent of such 
                      portion shall be credited to the Department of 
                      Justice Working Capital Fund in accordance with 
                      subparagraph (A)(i); and
                          (ii) an amount equal to the balance of such 
                      portion shall be available to the Secretary of 
                      Transportation for purposes of construction of the 
                      access road described in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I).

[[Page 113 STAT. 103]]

                    (C) Of any portion of such amount received in a 
                fiscal year after fiscal year 2000--
                          (i) an amount equal to 3 percent of such 
                      portion shall be credited to the Department of 
                      Justice Working Capital Fund in accordance with 
                      subparagraph (A)(i); and
                          (ii) an amount equal to the balance of such 
                      portion shall be available to the Secretary of the 
                      Air Force for purposes of real property and 
                      facility maintenance projects at Ellsworth Air 
                      Force Base.
            (2) Limitation on availability of funds for access road.--
                    (A) Limitation.--The amounts referred to in 
                subparagraphs (A)(ii)(I) and (B)(ii) of paragraph (1) 
                shall be available as specified in such subparagraphs 
                only if, not later than September 30, 2000, the South 
                Dakota Department of Transportation enters into an 
                agreement with the Federal Highway Administration 
                providing for the construction of an interchange on 
                Interstate Route 90 at Box Elder, South Dakota.
                    (B) Alternative availability of funds.--If the 
                agreement described in subparagraph (A) is not entered 
                into by the date referred to in that subparagraph, the 
                amounts described in that subparagraph shall be 
                available to the Secretary of the Air Force as of that 
                date for purposes of real property and facility 
                maintenance projects at Ellsworth Air Force Base.
            (3) Availability of amounts.--
                    (A) Access road.--Amounts available under this 
                section for construction of the access road described in 
                paragraph (1)(A)(ii)(I) are in addition to amounts 
                available for the construction of that access road under 
                any other provision of law.
                    (B) Property and facility maintenance projects.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
                available under this section for property and facility 
                maintenance projects at Ellsworth Air Force Base shall 
                remain available for expenditure without fiscal year 
                limitation.

    Sec. 3030. The Corps of Engineers is directed to reprogram $800,000 
of the funds made available to that agency in fiscal year 1999 for the 
operation of the Pick-Sloan project to perform the preliminary work 
needed to transfer Federal lands to certain tribes and the State of 
South Dakota, and to protect invaluable Indian cultural sites, under the 
Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe, Lower Brule Sioux Tribe, and State of South 
Dakota Terrestrial Wildlife Habitat Restoration Act.
    Sec. 3031. Prohibition on Treating Any Funds Recovered From Tobacco 
Companies as an Overpayment for Purposes of Medicaid. (a) Amendment to 
Social Security Act.--Section 1903(d)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b(d)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B)(i) Subparagraph (A) and paragraph (2)(B) shall not 
        apply to any amount recovered or paid to a State as part of the 
        comprehensive settlement of November 1998 between manufacturers 
        of tobacco products, as defined in section 5702(d)

[[Page 113 STAT. 104]]

        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and State Attorneys 
        General, or as part of any individual State settlement or 
        judgment reached in litigation initiated or pursued by a State 
        against one or more such manufacturers.
            ``(ii) Except as provided in subsection (i)(19), a State may 
        use amounts recovered or paid to the State as part of a 
        comprehensive or individual settlement, or a judgment, described 
        in clause (i) for any expenditures determined appropriate by the 
        State.''.

    (b) Prohibition on Payment for Administrative Expenses Incurred in 
Pursuing Tobacco Litigation.--Section 1903(i) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (18), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; or''; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (18) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(19) with respect to any amount expended on administrative 
        costs to initiate or pursue litigation described in subsection 
        (d)(3)(B).''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396b note.>>  Effective Date.--This section and 
the amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid to a 
State prior to, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 3032. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5545b note.>>  (a) The treatment provided 
to firefighters under section 628(f ) of the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1999 (as included in section 101(h) of 
division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) shall be provided to any 
firefighter who--
            (1) on the effective date of section 5545b of title 5, 
        United States Code--
                    (A) was subject to such section; and
                    (B) had a regular tour of duty that averaged more 
                than 60 hours per week; and
            (2) before December 31, 1999, is involuntarily moved without 
        a break in service from the regular tour of duty under paragraph 
        (1) to a regular tour of duty that--
                    (A) averages 60 hours or less per week; and
                    (B) does not include a basic 40-hour workweek.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Subsection (a) shall apply to 
firefighters described under that subsection as of the effective date of 
section 5545b of title 5, United States Code.

    (c) The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations 
necessary to implement this section.
    Sec. 3033. Howell T. Heflin <<NOTE: Alabama.>> Post Office Building. 
(a) 
Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service under 
construction at Tuscumbia, Alabama is designated as the ``Howell T. 
Heflin Post Office Building''.

    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, document, 
record, map, or other paper of the United States to the facility 
referred to in subsection (a) is deemed to be a reference to the 
``Howell T. Heflin Post Office Building''.
    Sec. 3034. (a) Consideration for Land Conveyance, San Joaquin 
County, California.--Subsection (c) of section 140 of division C of 
Public Law 105-277 <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-599.>>  is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The purpose''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

[[Page 113 STAT. 105]]

    ``(2) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the conveyance of the 
approximately 150-acre parcel described in paragraph (1) shall be 
without consideration. As consideration for the approximately 50-acre 
parcel intended for economic development, which shall be selected by the 
City, the City shall pay to the United States an amount equal to the 
fair market value of the parcel, as determined by an appraisal 
satisfactory to the Attorney General and the City.''.
    (b) Conditions on Use.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).

    (c) Reversion.--Subsection (e) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).

    (d) Time for Conveyance.--Subsection (a) of such section is amended 
by striking ``120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and 
inserting ``August 21, 1999''.
    Sec. 3035. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator of General Services is directed to utilize resources in 
the Federal Buildings Fund to purchase, at fair market value, not to 
exceed $700,000, the United States Post Office and Federal Courthouse 
Building located on Mill Street in Fergus Falls, Minnesota: Provided, 
That such sums necessary to effect this provision are appropriated from 
the Federal Buildings Fund.

                    TITLE IV--RESCISSIONS AND OFFSETS

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                           food stamp program

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in division A, 
section 101(a), title IV of Public Law 105-277, $1,250,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCIES

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                    United States Information Agency

                        buying power maintenance

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$20,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 113 STAT. 106]]

                    MULTILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                  International Financial Institutions

     Contribution to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
                               Development

                       Global Environment Facility

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-277, 
$25,000,000 are rescinded.

                   Other Bilateral Economic Assistance

                          economic support fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-277 
and in prior Acts making appropriations for foreign operations, export 
financing, and related programs, $5,000,000 are rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated under this heading in previous 
appropriations Acts, $6,800,000 are rescinded.

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    Under this heading in section 101(f ) of Public Law 105-277, strike 
``$3,132,076,000'' and insert ``$3,109,676,000'' and strike 
``$180,933,000'' and insert ``$163,533,000''.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                federal capital loan program for nursing

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under the Federal Capital Loan Program 
for Nursing appropriation account, $2,800,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 113 STAT. 107]]

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

             education research, statistics, and improvement

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in section 101(f ) of 
Public Law 105-277, $6,500,000 are rescinded.

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                              (rescissions)

    Of the funds provided in the Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 1999, the following funds are hereby rescinded as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act from the following accounts in the specified 
amounts:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $3,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy'', $2,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $3,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $2,000,000;
            ``Family Housing, Army'' for Construction, $1,000,000; for 
        Operations and Maintenance, $7,000,000;
            ``Family Housing, Navy'' for Construction, $1,000,000; for 
        Operations and Maintenance, $2,000,000;
            ``Family Housing, Air Force'' for Construction, $1,000,000; 
        for Operations and Maintenance, $3,000,000; and
            ``Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV'', 
        $6,400,000.

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                        Payments to Air Carriers

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the budgetary resources provided for ``Small Community Air 
Service'' by Public Law 101-508 for fiscal years prior to fiscal year 
1998, $815,000 are rescinded.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                       State Infrastructure Banks

                              (rescission)

    Of the available balances under this heading, $6,500,000 are 
rescinded.

[[Page 113 STAT. 108]]

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                  Trust Fund Share of Transit Programs

                          (highway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the budgetary resources provided for ``Trust fund share of 
transit programs'' in Public Law 102-240 under 49 U.S.C. 5338(a)(1), 
$665,000 are rescinded.

                   Interstate Transfer Grants--Transit

    Of the available balances under this heading, $600,000 are 
rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          Salaries and Expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in division A of the 
Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations, 1999 
(Public Law 105-277) $4,500,000 for the expansion of the National 
Tracing Center are rescinded.

                    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                           Unanticipated Needs

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 101-
130, the Fiscal Year 1990 Dire Emergency Supplemental to Meet the Needs 
of Natural Disasters of National Significance, $10,000,000 are 
rescinded.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                        Public and Indian Housing

                annual contributions for assisted housing

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts recaptured from funds appropriated under this heading 
during fiscal year 1999 and prior years, $350,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 113 STAT. 109]]

                   Community Planning and Development

                   community development block grants

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading in division 
B, of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277), $230,000,000 are rescinded.

                      GENERAL PROVISION, THIS TITLE

    Sec. 4001. Of the amount made available under division B, title V, 
chapter 1 of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277) $22,466,000 are rescinded.

                     TITLE V--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS

    Sec. 5001. The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in division A, section 101(a) of the Omnibus Consolidated and 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is 
amended:
            (a) in title III, under the heading ``Rural Community 
        Advancement Program (Including Transfer of Funds)'', <<NOTE: 112 
        Stat. 2681-15.>>  by inserting ``1926d,'' after ``1926c,''; by 
        inserting ``, 306C(a)(2), and 306D'' after ``381E(d)(2)'' the 
        first time it appears in the paragraph; and by striking ``, as 
        provided in 7 U.S.C. 1926(a) and 7 U.S.C. 1926C'';
            (b) in title VII, in section 718 <<NOTE: 7 USC 5623 note.>>  
        by striking ``this Act'' and inserting ``annual appropriations 
        Acts'';
            (c) in title VII, in section 747 <<NOTE: 7 USC 1622 note.>>  
        by striking ``302'' and inserting ``203''; and
            (d) in title VII, in section 763(b)(3) <<NOTE: 112 
        Stat. 2681-36.>>  by striking ``section 402(d) of Public Law 94-
        265'' and inserting ``section 116(a) of Public Law 104-297''.

    Sec. 5002. The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 
101(d) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended--
            (a) <<NOTE: 112 Stat 2681-156.>> in title II under the 
        heading ``Burma'' by striking 
        ``headings `Economic Support Fund' and'' and inserting 
        ``headings `Child Survival and Disease Programs Fund', `Economic 
        Support Fund' and'';
            (b) in title V in section 587 <<NOTE: 22 USC 2381 note.>>  
        by striking ``199-339'' and inserting ``99-399'';
            (c) in title V in subsection 594(a) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2753 
        note.>>  by striking ``subparagraph (C)'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (c)'';
            (d) in title V in subsection 594(b) by striking 
        ``subparagraph (a)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
            (e) in title V in subsection 594(c) by striking ``521 of the 
        annual appropriations Act for Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs'' and inserting ``520 of this 
        Act''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 110]]

    Sec. 5003. Subsection 1706(b) of title XVII of the International 
Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2), <<NOTE: 22 USC 262r-
5.>>  as added by section 614 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1999, is amended by 
striking ``June 30'' and inserting ``September 30''.

    Sec. 5004. The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 101(e) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended:
            (1) in the last proviso under the heading ``United States 
        Fish and Wildlife Service, Administrative 
        Provisions'' <<NOTE: 16 USC 1374.>>  by striking ``section 
        104(c)(50)(B) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1361-1407)'' and inserting ``section 104(c)(5)(B) of the Marine 
        Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361-1407)''.
            (2) under the heading ``Bureau of Indian Affairs, Operation 
        of Indian Programs'', <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-245.>>  by striking 
        ``$94,010,000'' and inserting ``$94,046,000'', by striking 
        ``$114,871,000'' and inserting ``$114,891,000'', by striking 
        ``$387,365,000'' and inserting ``$389,307,000'', and by striking 
        ``$52,889,000'' and inserting ``$53,039,000''.
            (3) in section 354(a) <<NOTE: 16 USC 544b.>>  by striking 
        ``16 U.S.C. 544(a)(2))'' and inserting ``16 U.S.C. 
        544b(a)(2))''.
            (4) <<NOTE: Effective date. 16 USC 544b note.>>  The 
        amendments made by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this section 
        shall take effect as if included in Public Law 105-277 on the 
        date of its enactment.

    Sec. 5005. The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained 
in division A, section 101(f ) of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended--
            (a) in title I, under the heading ``Federal Unemployment 
        Benefits and Allowances'', <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-339.>>  by 
        striking ``during the current fiscal year'' and inserting ``from 
        October 1, 1998, through September 30, 1999'';
            (b) in title II under the heading ``Office of the Secretary, 
        General Departmental Management'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-357.>>  
        by striking ``$180,051,000'' and inserting ``$188,051,000'';
            (c) in title II under the heading ``Children and Families 
        Services Programs, (Including Rescissions)'' <<NOTE: 112 
        Stat. 2681-355.>>  by striking ``notwithstanding section 
        640(a)(6), of the funds made available for the Head Start Act, 
        $337,500,000 shall be set aside for the Head Start Program for 
        Families with Infants and Toddlers (Early Head Start): Provided 
        further, That'';
            (d) in title II under the heading ``Office of the Secretary, 
        General Departmental Management'' by inserting after the first 
        proviso the following: ``Provided further, That of the funds 
        made available under this heading for carrying out title XX of 
        the Public Health Service Act, $10,831,000 shall be for 
        activities specified under section 2003(b)(2), of which 
        $9,131,000 shall be for prevention service demonstration grants 
        under section 510(b)(2) of title V of the Social Security Act, 
        as amended, without application of the limitation of section 
        2010(c) of said title XX:'';
            (e) in title III under the heading ``Special 
        Education'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-368.>>  by inserting before 
        the period at the end of the paragraph the following: ``: 
        Provided further, That $1,500,000 shall be for

[[Page 113 STAT. 111]]

        the recipient of funds provided by Public Law 105-78 under 
        section 687(b)(2)(G) of the Act to provide information on 
        diagnosis, intervention, and teaching strategies for children 
        with disabilities'';
            (f ) in title II under the heading ``Public Health and 
        Social Services Emergency Fund'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-358.>>  
        by striking ``$322,000'' and inserting ``$180,000'';
            (g) in title III under the heading ``Education 
        Reform'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-363.>>  by striking 
        ``$491,000,000'' and inserting ``$459,500,000'';
            (h) in title III under the heading ``Vocational and Adult 
        Education'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-369.>>  by striking 
        ``$6,000,000'' the first time that it appears and inserting 
        ``$14,000,000'', and by inserting before the period at the end 
        of the paragraph the following: ``: Provided further, That of 
        the amounts made available for the Perkins Act, $4,100,000 shall 
        be for tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions 
        under section 117'';
            (i) in title III under the heading ``Higher 
        Education'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-370.>>  by inserting after 
        the first proviso the following: ``Provided further, That funds 
        available for part A, subpart 2 of title VII of the Higher 
        Education Act shall be available to fund awards for academic 
        year 1999-2000 for fellowships under part A, subpart 1 of title 
        VII of said Act, under the terms and conditions of part A, 
        subpart 1:'';
            ( j) in title III under the heading ``Education Research, 
        Statistics, and Improvement'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-372.>>  by 
        inserting after the third proviso the following: ``Provided 
        further, That of the funds appropriated under section 10601 of 
        title X of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 
        as amended, $1,000,000 shall be used to conduct a violence 
        prevention demonstration program:'';
            (k) in title III under the heading <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-
        368.>>  ``Reading Excellence'' by inserting before the period at 
        the end of the paragraph the following: ``: Provided, That up to 
        1 percent of the amount appropriated shall be available October 
        1, 1998 for peer review of applications'';
            (l) in title V in section 510(3) <<NOTE: 31 USC 1301 
        note.>>  by inserting after ``Act'' the following: ``or 
        subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts''; and
            (m)(1) in title VIII in section 405 <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-
        428.>>  by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:

    ``(e) Other References to Title VII of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act.--The table of contents of the Stewart B. 
McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.) is amended--
            ``(1) by striking the items relating to title VII of such 
        Act, except the item relating to the title heading and the items 
        relating to subtitles B and C of such title; and
            ``(2) by striking the item relating to the title heading for 
        title VII and inserting the following:

               `` `TITLE VII--EDUCATION AND TRAINING'.''.

            (2) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  The amendments made by 
        subsection (m)(1) of this section shall take effect as if 
        included in Public Law 105-277 on the date of its enactment.

[[Page 113 STAT. 112]]

    Sec. 5006. The last sentence of section 5595(b) of title 5, United 
States Code (as added by section 309(a)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1999; Public Law 105-275), is amended by striking 
``(a)(1)(G)'' and inserting ``(a)(1)(C)''.
    Sec. 5007. Division B, title II, chapter 5 of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-277) is amended under the heading ``Capitol Police Board, 
Security Enhancements'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-570.>>  by inserting 
before the period at the end of the paragraph ``: Provided further, That 
for purposes of carrying out the plan or plans described under this 
heading and consistent with the approval of such plan or plans pursuant 
to this heading, the Capitol Police Board shall transfer the portion of 
the funds made available under this heading which are to be used for 
personnel and overtime increases for the United States Capitol Police to 
the heading ``Capitol Police Board, Capitol Police, Salaries'' under the 
Act making appropriations for the legislative branch for the fiscal year 
involved, and shall allocate such portion between the Sergeant at Arms 
of the House of Representatives and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate in such amounts as may be approved by the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate''.

    Sec. 5008. Division B, title 1, chapter 3 of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-277) is amended under the heading ``Family Housing, Navy and 
Marine Corps'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-562.>>  by striking the word 
``Hurricane'' and inserting ``Hurricanes Georges and''.

    Sec. 5009. The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in division A, section 101(g) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended in title I under the heading 
``Capital Investment Grants (Including Transfer of Funds)'' <<NOTE: 112 
Stat. 2681-453.>>  within the project description of project number 127, 
by inserting the words ``and bus facilities'' after the word 
``replacements'', and within the project description of project number 
261 by striking the words ``Multimodal Center'' and inserting ``buses 
and bus related facilities''.

    Sec. 5010. The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in division A, section 101(g) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277), is amended in title I under the heading 
``Federal-Aid Highways (Limitation on Obligations) (Highway Trust 
Fund)'' <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-446.>>  by striking ``not more than 
$38,000,000 shall be available for the implementation and execution of 
the Ferry Boat and Ferry Terminal Facility Program'', and inserting 
``not more than $59,290,000 shall be available for the implementation 
and execution of the Ferry Boat and Ferry Terminal Facility Program''.

    Sec. 5011. Section 3347(b) of title 5, United States Code, as added 
by the Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, is amended by striking 
``provision to which subsection (a)(2) applies'' and inserting 
``provision to which subsection (a)(1) applies''.

                 TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS, THIS ACT

    Sec. 6001. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Effective October 1, 1999, 
section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2194) is 
amended by--

[[Page 113 STAT. 113]]

            (1) striking the paragraph within subsection 234(g) that is 
        currently designated as 234(c);
            (2) in paragraph (g)(2), changing the title to read ``Equity 
        Authority Limited to Projects in Sub-Saharan Africa and 
        Caribbean Basin and Marine Transportation Projects Globally'' 
        and inserting after the words ``Caribbean Basin Economic 
        Recovery Act'' the following: ``and in marine transportation 
        projects in countries and areas eligible for OPIC support 
        worldwide using United States commercial maritime expertise''; 
        and
            (3) inserting a new paragraph (g)(5) to read:

    ``Implementation.--To the extent provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts, the Corporation is authorized to create such legal 
vehicles as may be necessary for implementation of its authorities, 
which legal vehicles may be deemed non-Federal borrowers for purposes of 
the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990. Income and proceeds of 
investments made pursuant to this section 234(g) may be used to purchase 
equity or quasi-equity securities in accordance with the provisions of 
this section: Provided, however, That such purchases shall not be 
limited to the 4-year period of the pilot program: Provided further, 
That the limitations contained in section 234(g)(2) shall not apply to 
such purchases.''.
    Sec. 6002. (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 48103 of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``$1,607,000,000 
for the 8-month period beginning October 1, 1998.'' and inserting 
``$2,050,000,000 for the period beginning October 1, 1998 and ending 
August 6, 1999.''.
    (b) Obligational Authority.--Section 47104(c) of such title is 
amended by striking ``May 31, 1999,'' and inserting ``August 6, 1999,''.
    (c) Liquidation of Contract Authorization.--The Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999, as 
amended, is further amended as follows: Strike the last proviso under 
the heading ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports, (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization), (Airport and Airway Trust Fund)'' <<NOTE: 112 
Stat. 2681-445.>>  and insert ``Provided further, That not more than 
$1,660,000,000 of funds limited under this heading may be obligated 
before the enactment of a law extending contract authorization for the 
Grants-in-Aid for Airports Program beyond August 6, 1999.''.

    (d) Military Airport Program.--Section 47117(e)(1)(B) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``for each of fiscal years 
1997 and 1998''.
    (e) Release of MWAA Funding.--Section 9(a) of the Interim Federal 
Aviation Administration Authorization Act (Public Law 106-
6) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 11.>>  is amended by striking ``(an application that 
is pending at the Department of Transportation on March 17, 1999) for 
expenditure or obligation of up to $30,000,000'' and inserting ``for 
expenditure or obligation of up to $60,000,000''.

    (f ) Extension of Aviation Insurance Program.--Section 44310 of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``May 31, 1999'' 
and inserting ``August 6, 1999''.
    Sec. 6003. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Title 49 Recodification 
Correction.--Effective December 31, 1998, section 4(k) of the Act of 
July 5, 1994 (Public Law 103-272; 108 Stat. 1370), as amended by section 
7(a)(3)(D) of the Act of October 31, 1994 (Public Law 103-429; 108 Stat. 
4329), <<NOTE: 49 USC 41107 and note, 41901-41903.>> is repealed.

    Sec. 6004. Section 3027(d)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (49 U.S.C. 5307 note; 112 Stat. 366) as added

[[Page 113 STAT. 114]]

by section 360 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 101(g) of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is redesignated as section 3027(c)(3).
    Sec. 6005. It is the sense of the Congress that there should 
continue to be parity between the adjustments in the compensation of 
members of the uniformed services and the adjustments in the 
compensation of civilian employees of the United States.
    This Act may be cited as the ``1999 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act''.

    Approved May 21, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1141 (S. 544):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-64 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-143 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-8 accompanying S. 544 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Mar. 24, considered and passed House.
            Mar. 25, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 544.
            May 18, House agreed to conference report.
            May 20, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            May 21, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>