[106th Congress Public Law 239]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ239.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 492]]

Public Law 106-239
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To designate certain facilities of the United States Postal Service in 
         South Carolina. <<NOTE: July 6, 2000 -  [H.R. 3018]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAYFORD R. JOHNSON POST OFFICE.

    (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 301 Main 
Street in Eastover, South Carolina, shall be known and designated as the 
``Layford R. Johnson Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Layford R. Johnson Post Office''.

SEC. 2. RICHARD E. FIELDS POST OFFICE.

    (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 78 
Sycamore Street in Charleston, South Carolina, shall be known and 
designated as the ``Richard E. Fields Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Richard E. Fields Post Office''.

SEC. 3. MARYBELLE H. HOWE POST OFFICE.

    (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 557 East 
Bay Street in Charleston, South Carolina, shall be known and designated 
as the ``Marybelle H. Howe Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United States Post 
Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Marybelle H. Howe Post Office''.

SEC. 4. MAMIE G. FLOYD POST OFFICE.

    (a) Designation.--The United States Post Office located at 4026 
Lamar Street in (the Eau Claire community of ) Columbia, South Carolina, 
shall be known and designated as the ``Mamie G. Floyd Post Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the United

[[Page 114 STAT. 493]]

States Post Office referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the ``Mamie G. Floyd Post Office''.

    Approved July 6, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3018:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD: Vol. 146 (2000):
            Mar. 8, considered and passed House.
            June 23, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>