[106th Congress Public Law 437]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ437.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1920]]

Public Law 106-437
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To permit the payment of medical expenses incurred by the United States 
   Park Police in the performance of duty to be made directly by the 
National Park Service, to allow for waiver and indemnification in mutual 
law enforcement agreements between the National Park Service and a State 
   or political subdivision when required by State law, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 2000 -  [H.R. 4404]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. MEDICAL PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (e) of the Policemen and Firemen's 
Retirement and Disability Act (39 Stat. 718, as amended by 71 Stat. 394) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``Notwithstanding the previous sentence, in the case of any member of 
the United States Park Police, payment shall be made by the National 
Park Service upon a certificate of the Chief, United States Park Police, 
setting forth the necessity for such services or treatment and the 
nature of the injury or disease which rendered the same necessary.''.
    (b) National Park Service Reimbursement.--Section 6 of the Policemen 
and Firemen's Retirement and Disability Act Amendments of 1957 (71 Stat. 
399) is amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``Such sums are authorized to be appropriated to reimburse the 
National Park Service, on a monthly basis, for medical benefit payments 
made from funds appropriated to the National Park Service in the case of 
any member of the United States Park Police.''.

SEC. 2. INDEMNIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 10(c) of the Act of August 18, 1970 (Public 
Law 91-383; 16 U.S.C. 1a-6(c)), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) mutually waive, in any agreement pursuant to 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection or pursuant to 
        subsection (b)(1) with any State or political subdivision 
        thereof where State law requires such waiver and 
        indemnification, any and all civil claims against all the other 
        parties thereto and, subject to available appropriations, 
        indemnify and save harmless the other parties to such agreement 
        from all claims by third parties for property damage or personal 
        injury, which may arise out of the parties' activities outside 
        their respective jurisdictions under such agreement; and''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1921]]

    (b) Technical Amendment.--Paragraph (5) of section 10(c) the Act of 
August 18, 1970 (Public Law 91-383; 16 U.S.C. 1a-6(c)) (as redesignated 
by subsection (a)(2)), is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``(5) the'' and inserting ``The''; and
            (2) by moving the text flush and 2 ems to the left.

    Approved November 6, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4404:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-854, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 17, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>