[106th Congress Public Law 329]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ329.106]


[[Page 1295]]

    BLACK HILLS NATIONAL FOREST AND ROCKY MOUNTAIN RESEARCH STATION 
                             IMPROVEMENT ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 1296]]

Public Law 106-329
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to sell or exchange all or 
 part of certain administrative sites and other land in the Black Hills 
 National Forest and to use funds derived from the sale or exchange to 
  acquire replacement sites and to acquire or construct administrative 
        improvements in connection with the Black Hills National 
             Forest. <<NOTE: Oct. 19, 2000 -  [H.R. 4226]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Black Hills 
National Forest and Rocky Mountain Research Station Improvement 
Act. South Dakota.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Black Hills National Forest and Rocky 
Mountain Research Station Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF LAND, BLACK HILLS NATIONAL FOREST, SOUTH 
            DAKOTA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') may, under such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary may prescribe, sell or exchange any right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the approximately 362 acres 
contained in the following parcels of land in the State of South Dakota:
            (1) Tract BLKH-1 ``Spearfish Dwelling'' (approximately 0.24 
        acres); N\1/2\ of Lot 8 and Lot 9 of Block 16, Section 10, T6N, 
        R2E, Black Hills Meridian.
            (2) Tract BLKH-2 ``Deadwood Garage'' (approximately 0.12 
        acres); Lots 9 and 11 of Block 34, Section 23, T5N, R3E, Black 
        Hills Meridian.
            (3) Tract BLKH-3 ``Deadwood Dwellings'' (approximately 0.32 
        acres); Lots 12-16, inclusive, of Block 44, Section 23, T5N, 
        R3E, Black Hill Meridian.
            (4) Tract BLKH-4 ``Hardy Work Center'' (approximately 150 
        acres); E\1/2\SW\1/4\SE\1/4\, SE\1/4\SE\1/4\, Section 19; NE\1/
        4\NW\1/4\NE\1/4\, E\1/2\NE\1/4\SE\1/4\, E\1/2\SE\1/4\NE\1/4\, 
        NE\1/4\NE\1/4\, Section 30, T3N, R1E, Black Hills Meridian.
            (5) Tract BLKH-6 ``Pactola Work Center'' (approximately 100 
        acres); W\1/2\SW\1/4\NW\1/4\, W\1/2\NW\1/4\SW\1/4\, W\1/2\SW\1/
        4\SW\1/4\, SE\1/4\SW\1/4\SW\1/4\, Section 25; E\1/2\NE\1/4\SE\1/
        4\, SE\1/4\SE\1/4\NE\1/4\, Section 26, T2N, R5E, Black Hills 
        Meridian.
            (6) Tract BLKH-7 ``Pactola Ranger District Office'' 
        (approximately 8.25 acres); Lot 1 of Ranger Station Subdivision, 
        Section 4, T1N, R7E, Black Hills Meridian.
            (7) Tract BLKH-8 ``Reder Administrative Site'' 
        (approximately 82 acres); Lots 6 and 7, Section 29; Lot A of 
        Reder Placer, Lot 19, NW\1/4\SE\1/4\NE\1/4\, Section 30, T1S, 
        R5E, Black Hills Meridian.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1297]]

            (8) Tract BLKH-9 ``Allen Gulch Properties'' (approximately 
        21 acres); Lot 14 less and except Tract STA #0029, Section 25, 
        and Lot 1, Section 36, T1S, R4E, Black Hills Meridian.
            (9) Tract BLKH-10 ``Custer Ranger District Office'' 
        (approximately 0.39 acres); Lots 4 and 9 of Block 125 and the 
        East 15 feet of the vacated north/south alley adjacent to Lot 4, 
        City of Custer, Section 26, T3S, R4E, Black Hills Meridian.

    (b) Technical Corrections.--The Secretary may make technical 
corrections to the legal descriptions in paragraphs (1) through (9) of 
subsection (a).
    (c) Applicable Authorities.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
section, any sale or exchange of land described in subsection (a) shall 
be subject to laws (including regulations) applicable to the conveyance 
and acquisition of land for National Forest System purposes.
    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept cash equalization payments in excess of 25 
percent of the total value of the land described in subsection (a) from 
any exchange under subsection (a).
    (e) Solicitations of Offers.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
        may use solicitations of offers for sale or exchange under this 
        section on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
        prescribe.
            (2) Rejection of offers.--The Secretary may reject any offer 
        under this section if the Secretary determines that the offer is 
        not adequate or not in the public interest.

    (f ) Disposition of Funds.--Any funds received by the Secretary from 
a sale under this section or as cash equalization payments from an 
exchange under this section--
            (1) shall be deposited into the fund established by Public 
        Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 
        484a); and
            (2) shall be available for expenditure, on appropriation, 
        for--
                    (A) the acquisition from willing sellers of land and 
                interests in land in the State of South Dakota; and
                    (B) the acquisition or construction of 
                administrative improvements in connection with the Black 
                Hills National Forest.

    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 3. REPLACEMENT LABORATORY, ROCKY MOUNTAIN RESEARCH STATION, RAPID 
            CITY, SOUTH DAKOTA.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Agriculture $2,100,000 for a laboratory facility for the 
Rocky Mountain Research Station in Rapid City, South Dakota, to replace 
the obsolete laboratory capability at the research station. The 
replacement facility shall be colocated with at least one of the 
administrative improvements for the Black Hills National Forest acquired 
or constructed under the authority of section 2(f )(2)(B).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1298]]

    (b) Conditions on Acquisition of Property.--No funds available to 
carry out this section may be used to purchase or otherwise acquire 
property unless--
            (1) the acquisition is from willing sellers; and
            (2) the property is located within the boundaries of the 
        State of South Dakota.

    Approved October 19, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4226 (S. 1599):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-816 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-210 accompanying S. 1599 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Sept. 18, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>