[106th Congress Public Law 443]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ443.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1927]]

Public Law 106-443
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To extend the authority of the Los Angeles Unified School District to 
use certain park lands in the City of South Gate, California, which were 
  acquired with amounts provided from the land and water conservation 
  fund, for elementary school purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 2000 -  [H.R. 
                                5083]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) In 1988, the Los Angeles Board of Education voted to 
        close Tweedy Elementary School in the City of South Gate, 
        California, due to concerns about health risks at the site of 
        the school.
            (2) The school was temporarily relocated to South Gate Park 
        on park land that was originally acquired with amounts provided 
        by the Secretary of the Interior from the land and water 
        conservation fund.
            (3) In March 1991, the lease with the city that allowed the 
        Los Angeles Unified School District to operate the school on 
        park land expired, and no progress had been made in constructing 
        new facilities to relocate the school and its students.
            (4) In 1992, Congress enacted Public Law 102-443 (106 Stat. 
        2244), which authorized an 8-year extension in the lease for the 
        use of the park land pending the construction of the new school.
            (5) This 8-year extension is due to expire on October 23, 
        2000, and little progress has been made on the part of the Los 
        Angeles Unified School District to relocate Tweedy Elementary 
        School.
            (6) In addition to the long-delayed Tweedy Elementary School 
        relocation, recent studies have identified the need for 
        additional educational facilities in the City of South Gate, 
        including a new high school, junior high, and three primary 
        centers in the near future.
            (7) The lack of commitment, oversight, and accountability in 
        finding a new site for Tweedy Elementary School must be 
        corrected in any further lease extension, and a similar 
        situation also must be avoided in addressing the construction of 
        other education facilities in the City of South Gate.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1928]]

SEC. 2. CONTINUATION OF TEMPORARY USE OF PARK LANDS FOR ELEMENTARY 
            SCHOOL PURPOSES, SOUTH GATE, CALIFORNIA.

    Notwithstanding section 6(f )(3) of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-8(f )(3)), the City of South Gate, 
California, may extend until October 23, 2004, the lease between the 
City of South Gate and the Los Angeles Unified School District, dated 
June 8, 1988, and otherwise subject to expire on October 23, 2000, 
pursuant to Public Law 102-443 (106 Stat. 2244), regarding the use of 
approximately three acres of South Gate Park as the temporary site for 
Tweedy Elementary School.

SEC. 3. REPORT ON PROGRESS TO RELOCATE TWEEDY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND 
            OTHER SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Periodic Reports Required.--As a condition on the extension of 
the lease referred to in section 1 beyond October 23, 2000, the 
President of the Board of Education for the Los Angeles Unified School 
District shall require the preparation of periodic reports describing--
            (1) the progress being made to relocate Tweedy Elementary 
        School from South Gate Park to a permanent location; and
            (2) the School District's construction plans for a new high 
        school, middle school, and three primary centers in the City of 
        South Gate, California.

    (b) Elements of Report.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
describe--
            (1) the progress being made in site selection and 
        acquisition, facility design, and construction; and
            (2) any factors hindering either the relocation of Tweedy 
        Elementary School or progress on the School District's other 
        construction plans for the City of South Gate.

    (c) Submission.--The reports required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted to the City Manager of the City of South Gate, the Congress, 
the Los Angeles Board of Education, and Padres Unidos Pro Nuevas 
Escuelas. The first report shall be submitted not later than May 1, 
2001, and subsequent reports shall be submitted every 6 months 
thereafter during the term of the extended lease.

    Approved November 6, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5083:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 12, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>