[106th Congress Public Law 177]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ177.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 35]]

Public Law 106-177
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To <<NOTE: Mar. 10, 2000 -  [H.R. 764]>>  reduce the incidence of child 
               abuse and neglect, and for other purposes.


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

TITLE I--THE <<NOTE: Child Abuse Prevention and Enforcement Act. Inter- 
governmental relations.>>  CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION AND ENFORCEMENT ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT <<NOTE: 42 USC 3711 note.>>  TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Child Abuse Prevention and 
Enforcement Act''.

SEC. 102. GRANT PROGRAM.

    Section 102(b) of the Crime Identification Technology Act of 1998 
(42 U.S.C. 14601(b)) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of 
paragraph (15), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (16) and 
inserting ``; and'', and by adding after paragraph (16) the following:
            ``(17) the capability of the criminal justice system to 
        deliver timely, accurate, and complete criminal history record 
        information to child welfare agencies, organizations, and 
        programs that are engaged in the assessment of risk and other 
        activities related to the protection of children, including 
        protection against child sexual abuse, and placement of children 
        in foster care.''.

SEC. 103. USE OF FUNDS UNDER BYRNE GRANT PROGRAM FOR CHILD PROTECTION.

    Section 501(b) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3751) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (25);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (26) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(27) enforcing child abuse and neglect laws, including 
        laws protecting against child sexual abuse, and promoting 
        programs designed to prevent child abuse and neglect; and
            ``(28) establishing or supporting cooperative programs 
        between law enforcement and media organizations, to collect, 
        record, retain, and disseminate information useful in the 
        identification and apprehension of suspected criminal 
        offenders.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 36]]

SEC. 104. CONDITIONAL ADJUSTMENT IN SET ASIDE FOR CHILD ABUSE VICTIMS 
            UNDER THE VICTIMS OF CRIME ACT OF 1984.

    (a) In General.--Section 1402(d)(2) of the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(2) The first $10,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the first 
        $10,000,000''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B)(i) For any fiscal year for which the amount deposited 
        in the Fund is greater than the amount deposited in the Fund for 
        fiscal year 1998, the $10,000,000 referred to in subparagraph 
        (A) plus an amount equal to 50 percent of the increase in the 
        amount from fiscal year 1998 shall be available for grants under 
        section 1404A.
            ``(ii) Amounts available under this subparagraph for any 
        fiscal year shall not exceed $20,000,000.''.

    (b) Interaction With Any Cap.--Subsection <<NOTE: 42 USC 10601 
note.>>  (a) shall be implemented so that any increase in funding 
provided thereby shall operate notwithstanding any dollar limitation on 
the availability of the Crime Victims Fund established under the Victims 
of Crime Act of 1984.

  TITLE II--JENNIFER'S LAW <<NOTE: Jennifer's Law. Law enforcement and 
crime. Grants. Inter- governmental relations.>> 

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14661 note.>> 

    This title may be cited as ``Jennifer's Law''.

SEC. 202. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14661.>> 

    The Attorney General is authorized to provide grant awards to States 
to enable States to improve the reporting of unidentified and missing 
persons.

SEC. 203. ELIGIBILITY. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14662.>> 

    (a) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant award under this 
title, a State shall submit an application at such time and in such form 
as the Attorney General may reasonably require.
    (b) Contents.--Each <<NOTE: Reports. Records.>>  such application 
shall include assurances that the State shall, to the greatest extent 
possible--
            (1) report to the National Crime Information Center and when 
        possible, to law enforcement authorities throughout the State 
        regarding every deceased unidentified person, regardless of age, 
        found in the State's jurisdiction;
            (2) enter a complete profile of such unidentified person in 
        compliance with the guidelines established by the Department of 
        Justice for the National Crime Information Center Missing and 
        Unidentified Persons File, including dental records, DNA 
        records, x-rays, and fingerprints, if available;
            (3) enter the National Crime Information Center number or 
        other appropriate number assigned to the unidentified person on 
        the death certificate of each such unidentified person; and
            (4) retain all such records pertaining to unidentified 
        persons until a person is identified.

SEC. 204. USES OF FUNDS. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14663.>> 

    A State that receives a grant award under this title may use such 
funds received to establish or expand programs developed to improve the 
reporting of unidentified persons in accordance with

[[Page 114 STAT. 37]]

the assurances provided in the application submitted pursuant to section 
203(b).

SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14664.>> 

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title 
$2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002.

    Approved March 10, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 764 (S. 1750):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-360 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Oct. 5, considered and passed House.
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Feb. 1, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>