[106th Congress Public Law 78]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ078.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1135]]

Public Law 106-78
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 22, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 1906]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000.>> That the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, 
and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $15,436,000, of which, $12,600,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available only for the development and implementation 
of a common computing environment: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 
of this amount, along with any unobligated balances of representation 
funds in the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That the funds 
made available for the development and implementation of a common 
computing environment shall only be available upon approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations and Agriculture of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate of a plan for the development and 
implementation of a common computing environment: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the 
Department of Agriculture to carry out section 793(c)(1)(C) of Public 
Law 104-127: Provided further, That none of the funds made available by 
this Act may be used to enforce section 793(d) of Public Law 104-127.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1136]]

                          Executive Operations

                             chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, energy and new uses, 
and the functions of the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized 
by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,411,000.

                        national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                  office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,583,000.

                 Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to 
exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,051,000.

                  Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,783,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded by this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1137]]

and for the operation, maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, 
$140,364,000: Provided, That in the event an agency within the 
Department should require modification of space needs, the Secretary of 
Agriculture may transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made 
available by this Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of 
this appropriation to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers 
shall not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for space rental 
and related costs to or from this account.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 
42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to the 
Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be transferred to any 
agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                       Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $34,738,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of the 
Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies 
and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical 
and efficient work of the Department, including employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

               outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
by this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,568,000: Provided, That no other 
funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be available to 
the Department for support of activities

[[Page 113 STAT. 1138]]

of congressional relations: Provided further, That not less than 
$2,241,000 shall be transferred to agencies funded by this Act to 
maintain personnel at the agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the dissemination 
of agricultural information, and the coordination of information, work, 
and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, $8,138,000, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not 
to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins.

                     Office of the Inspector General

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $65,128,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109; and including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential 
operational expenses, including the payment of informants, to be 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to Public 
Law 95-452 and section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$29,194,000.

   Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$65,419,000: Provided, That $1,000,000 shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``Food and Nutrition Service, Food 
Program Administration'' for studies and evaluations: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1139]]

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1621-1627, Public Law 105-113, and other laws, $99,405,000, of 
which up to $16,490,000 shall be available until expended for the Census 
of Agriculture: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                      Agricultural Research Service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges 
where the lands exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized 
by a payment of money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent 
of the total value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal 
ownership, $834,322,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available for temporary employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $115,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>> further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for 10 
buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $500,000 
each, and the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That the 
limitations on alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to 
modernization or replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, 
Maryland: Provided <<NOTE: University of Maryland.>> further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, including an easement to 
the University of Maryland to construct the Transgenic Animal Facility 
which upon completion shall be accepted by the Secretary as a gift: 
Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to 
replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 
(21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That funds may be received from any 
State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the 
purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or research 
project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1140]]

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.
    In fiscal year 2000, the agency is authorized to charge fees, 
commensurate with the fair market value, for any permit, easement, 
lease, or other special use authorization for the occupancy or use of 
land and facilities (including land and facilities at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center) issued by the agency, as authorized by 
law, and such fees shall be credited to this account and shall remain 
available until expended for authorized purposes.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $52,500,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That funds 
may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any research 
facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                    research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $180,545,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-i); $21,932,000 for grants for cooperative forestry 
research (16 U.S.C. 582a-a7); $30,676,000 for payments to the 1890 land-
grant colleges, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3222), of which 
$1,000,000 shall be made available to West Virginia State College in 
Institute, West Virginia, which <<NOTE: 7 USC 3222 note.>> for fiscal 
year 2000 and thereafter shall be designated as an eligible institution 
under section 1445 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222); $63,238,000 for special 
grants for agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $13,721,000 for 
special grants for agricultural research on improved pest control (7 
U.S.C. 450i(c)); $119,300,000 for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)); $5,109,000 for the support of animal health and disease 
programs (7 U.S.C. 3195); $750,000 for supplemental and alternative 
crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $650,000 for grants for research 
pursuant to the Critical Agricultural Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 
178) and section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3318), to remain available until expended; $500,000 for the 1994 
research program (7 U.S.C. 301 note); $3,000,000 for higher education 
graduate fellowship grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,350,000 for higher education 
challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); $1,000,000 for a higher 
education multicultural scholars program (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $2,850,000 for an 
education grants program for Hispanic-serving Institutions (7 U.S.C. 
3241); $500,000 for a secondary agriculture education program and 2-year 
post-secondary education (7

[[Page 113 STAT. 1141]]

U.S.C. 3152(h)); $4,000,000 for aquaculture grants (7 U.S.C. 3322); 
$8,000,000 for sustainable agriculture research and education (7 U.S.C. 
5811); $9,200,000 for a program of capacity building grants (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee 
University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$1,552,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 
534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $14,825,000 for necessary expenses 
of Research and Education Activities, of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, $485,698,000.

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

               native american institutions endowment fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                          extension activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, to be 
distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under section 
208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' compensation 
costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail for cooperative 
extension agents and State extension directors, $276,548,000; payments 
for extension work at the 1994 Institutions under the Smith-Lever Act (7 
U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $3,060,000; payments for the nutrition and family 
education program for low-income areas under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$58,695,000; payments for the pest management program under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $10,783,000; payments for the farm safety program under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $4,000,000; payments to upgrade research, 
extension, and teaching facilities at the 1890 land-grant colleges, 
including Tuskegee University, as authorized by section 1447 of Public 
Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $12,000,000, to remain available until 
expended; payments for the rural development centers under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $908,000; payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 
3(d) of the Act, $9,000,000; payments for carrying out the provisions of 
the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, $3,192,000; payments for 
Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,714,000; 
payments for sustainable agriculture programs under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural health and safety education as 
authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 
2662), $2,628,000; payments for cooperative extension work by the 
colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-
326 and 328) and Tuskegee University, $26,843,000, of which $1,000,000 
shall be made available to West Virginia <<NOTE: 7 USC 3221 
note.>> State College in Institute, West Virginia, which for fiscal year 
2000 and thereafter shall be designated as an eligible institution under 
section 1444 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221); and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1142]]

for Federal administration and coordination including administration of 
the Smith-Lever Act, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-
349), and section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 
note), and to coordinate and provide program leadership for the 
extension work of the Department and the several States and insular 
possessions, $12,242,000; in all, $424,922,000: Provided, That funds 
hereby appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 
1953, and section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to 
any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin 
Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa prior to 
availability of an equal sum from non-Federal sources for expenditure 
during the current fiscal year.

                          integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension competitive 
grants programs, including necessary administrative expenses, 
$39,541,000, as follows: payments for the water quality program, 
$13,000,000; payments for the food safety program, $15,000,000; payments 
for the national agriculture pesticide impact assessment program, 
$4,541,000; payments for the Food Quality Protection Act risk mitigation 
program for major food crop systems, $4,000,000; payments for the crops 
affected by Food Quality Protection Act implementation, $1,000,000; and 
payments for the methyl bromide transition program, $2,000,000, as 
authorized under section 406 of the Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Education Reform Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7626).

   Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; to 
discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act 
of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and to protect the 
environment, as authorized by law, $441,263,000, of which $4,105,000 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to 
the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, That no 
funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication 
program for the current fiscal year that does not require minimum 
matching by the States of at least

[[Page 113 STAT. 1143]]

40 percent: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
for field employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 
shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for the operation and 
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which 
two shall be for replacement only: Provided <<NOTE: 21 USC 
129.>> further, That, in addition, in emergencies which threaten any 
segment of the agricultural production industry of this country, the 
Secretary may transfer from other appropriations or funds available to 
the agencies or corporations of the Department such sums as may be 
deemed necessary, to be available only in such emergencies for the 
arrest and eradication of contagious or infectious disease or pests of 
animals, poultry, or plants, and for expenses in accordance with the Act 
of February 28, 1947, and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, 
and any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency 
purposes in the next preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such 
transferred amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and 
alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise 
provided the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building.

    In fiscal year 2000, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic and 
international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, or 
services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, without 
further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
    Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
2000, $87,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $5,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, and 
regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration and 
coordination of payments to States, including field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $51,625,000, including funds for the wholesale market development 
program for the design and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1144]]

development of wholesale and farmer market facilities for the major 
metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $60,730,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $12,443,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 
1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain under 
the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $26,448,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1145]]

         limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $42,557,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, $649,411,000, of which no less than 
$544,902,000 shall be available for Federal food inspection, and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees collected 
for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by section 1017 
of Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of the Egg 
Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$794,839,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized

[[Page 113 STAT. 1146]]

activities may be advanced to and merged with this account: Provided 
further, That these funds shall be available for employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,000,000.

                         dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, and 
in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk 
from commercial markets because of: (1) the presence of products of 
nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances 
not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968 (7 
U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were not used in a 
manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling instructions 
provided at the time of use and the contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer, $450,000, to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained in this Act 
shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer whose milk was 
removed from commercial markets as a result of the farmer's willful 
failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal Government: 
Provided further, That this amount shall be transferred to the Commodity 
Credit Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized 
to utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy indemnity 
disbursements.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $559,422,000, of which $431,373,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,397,842,000, of which 
$1,697,842,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$200,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,028,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; and for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $100,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1147]]

$7,243,000, of which $2,416,000, shall be for guaranteed loans; 
operating loans, $70,860,000, of which $23,940,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $17,620,000 shall be for subsidized 
guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as authorized by 
25 U.S.C. 488, $21,000; and for emergency insured loans, $3,882,000 to 
meet the needs resulting from natural disasters.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $214,161,000, of which $209,861,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership and operating direct loans and 
guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs with the prior 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                         Risk Management Agency

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 6933), 
$64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 2000, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 
1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).

        operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 2000, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, 
That expenses shall be

[[Page 113 STAT. 1148]]

for operations and maintenance costs only and that other hazardous waste 
management costs shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous Waste 
Management appropriation in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                          CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, $693,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f ), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$661,243,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,990,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $9,125,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, 
that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 
2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance and related expenses to carry out programs 
authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That qualified local engineers may be 
temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the technical planning 
work of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1149]]

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1009), $10,368,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing works 
and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 
and 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
590a-f ), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $99,443,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 may be available 
for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): Provided, That not to 
exceed $47,000,000 of this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is 
available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93-205), including cooperative efforts as contemplated 
by that Act to relocate endangered or threatened species to other 
suitable habitats as may be necessary to expedite project construction: 
Provided further, That of the funds available for Emergency Watershed 
Protection activities, $8,000,000 shall be available for Mississippi, 
New Mexico, Ohio, and Wisconsin for financial and technical assistance 
for pilot rehabilitation projects of small, upstream dams built under 
the Watershed and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001 et seq., section 
13 of the Act of December 22, 1994; Public Law 78-534; 58 Stat. 905), 
and the pilot watershed program authorized under the heading ``FLOOD 
PREVENTION'' of the Department of Agriculture Appropriation Act, 1954 
(Public Law 83-156; 67 Stat. 214).

                  resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of April 27, 1935 
(16 U.S.C. 590a-f ), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 
3451-3461), $35,265,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b): Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant

[[Page 113 STAT. 1150]]

 to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                       forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized by the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

                                TITLE III

            RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

           Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the 
Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

                   rural community advancement program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932, except for 
sections 381E-H, 381N, and 381O of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f ), $718,837,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $23,150,000 shall be for rural community 
programs described in section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; of which 
$631,088,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs described in 
section 381E(d)(2), 306C(a)(2), and 306D of such Act; and of which 
$64,599,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative development 
programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided, That of 
the amount appropriated for rural community programs, $6,000,000 shall 
be available for a Rural Community Development Initiative: Provided 
further, That such funds shall be used solely to develop the capacity 
and ability of private, nonprofit community-based housing and community 
development organizations, and low-income rural communities to undertake 
projects to improve housing, community facilities, community and 
economic development projects in rural areas: Provided further, That 
such funds shall be made available to qualified private and public 
(including tribal) intermediary organizations proposing to carry out a 
program of technical assistance: Provided further, That such 
intermediary organizations shall provide matching funds from other 
sources in an amount not less than funds provided: Provided further, 
That of the amount appropriated for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for 
a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for rural 
utilities programs, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for water and 
waste

[[Page 113 STAT. 1151]]

disposal systems to benefit the Colonias along the United States/Mexico 
borders, including grants pursuant to section 306C of such Act; not to 
exceed $12,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal systems to 
benefit Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including grants 
pursuant to section 306C of such Act: Provided further, That the 
Federally Recognized Native American Tribe is not eligible for any other 
rural utilities programs set aside under the Rural Community Advancement 
Program; not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal 
systems for rural and native villages in Alaska pursuant to section 306D 
of such Act with up to one percent available to administer the program 
and up to one percent available to improve interagency coordination; not 
to exceed $16,215,000 shall be for technical assistance grants for rural 
waste systems pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act; and not to 
exceed $7,300,000 shall be for contracting with qualified national 
organizations for a circuit rider program to provide technical 
assistance for rural water systems: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $45,245,000 shall be available 
through June 30, 2000, for authorized empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities and communities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones; of which $34,704,000 shall be 
for the rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of such 
Act; of which $8,435,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: 
Provided further, That any obligated and unobligated balances available 
from prior years for the ``Rural Utilities Assistance Program'' account 
shall be transferred to and merged with this account.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, to 
be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as follows: 
$4,300,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as determined by the 
Secretary, of which $3,200,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans; $32,396,000 for section 504 housing repair loans; $100,000,000 
for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; $25,001,000 for 
section 514 farm labor housing; $114,321,000 for section 515 rental 
housing; $5,152,000 for section 524 site loans; $7,503,000 for credit 
sales of acquired property, of which up to $1,250,000 may be for multi-
family credit sales; and $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing 
land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $113,350,000, of which 
$19,520,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $9,900,000; section 538 multi-family housing 
guaranteed loans, $480,000; section 514 farm labor housing, $11,308,000; 
section 515 rental housing, $45,363,000; section 524 site loans, $4,000; 
credit sales of acquired property, $874,000, of which up to $494,250 may 
be for multi-family credit sales; and section 523 self-help housing

[[Page 113 STAT. 1152]]

land development loans, $281,000: Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated in this paragraph, $11,180,000 shall be available through 
June 30, 2000, for authorized empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities and communities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $375,879,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
Service, Salaries and Expenses'': Provided, That of this amount the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer up to $7,000,000 to the 
appropriation for ``Outreach for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers''.

                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, $640,000,000; and, in 
addition, such sums as may be necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) 
of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to 
carry out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of the 
Act: Provided, That of this amount, not more than $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 
per project for advances to nonprofit organizations or public agencies 
to cover direct costs (other than purchase price) incurred in purchasing 
projects pursuant to section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That agreements entered into or renewed 
during fiscal year 2000 shall be funded for a 5-year period, although 
the life of any such agreement may be extended to fully utilize amounts 
obligated.

                   mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $28,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be available through June 30, 2000, for 
authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area 
Partnership Zones.

                     rural housing assistance grants

    For grants and contracts for housing for domestic farm labor, very 
low-income housing repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, and rural housing preservation 
made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 
1479(c), 1486, 1490e, and 1490m, $45,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,200,000 
shall be available through June 30, 2000, for authorized empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities and communities designated by the 
Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1153]]

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, and cooperative 
agreements, $61,979,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That the Administrator may expend not more than $10,000 to 
provide modest nonmonetary awards to non-USDA employees.

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

               rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,615,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $38,256,000: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, $3,216,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2000, for the cost of direct loans for 
authorized empowerment zones and enterprise communities and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic Area 
Partnership Zones.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $3,337,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$15,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,453,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit payments 
in fiscal year 2000, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $3,453,000 shall not be obligated and 
$3,453,000 are rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $6,000,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be available for 
cooperative agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural 
areas program: Provided, That at least 25 percent

[[Page 113 STAT. 1154]]

of the total amount appropriated shall be made available to cooperatives 
or associations of cooperatives that assist small, minority producers.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act; section 1323 of the Food Security Act of 
1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities relating to 
the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946; for 
activities with institutions concerning the development and operation of 
agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements, $24,612,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $260,000 may be used for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $121,500,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $295,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, 
rural electric, $1,700,000,000 and rural telecommunications, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of direct loans, $1,935,000; cost 
of municipal rate loans, $10,827,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $2,370,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower 
interest rates may exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $31,046,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs. During fiscal

[[Page 113 STAT. 1155]]

year 2000 and within the resources and authority available, gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans shall be 
$175,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
$3,290,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities Service, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

               distance learning and telemedicine program

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., $20,700,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
available for loans and grants for telemedicine and distance learning 
services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of direct loans shall 
be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $34,107,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Nutrition Service, 
$554,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$9,554,028,000, to remain available through September 30, 2001, of which 
$4,618,829,000 is hereby appropriated and $4,935,199,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That, except as specifically 
provided under this heading, none of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be

[[Page 113 STAT. 1156]]

used for studies and evaluations: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, up to $7,000,000 shall be for school 
breakfast pilot projects, including the evaluation required under 
section 18(e) of the National School Lunch Act: Provided further, That 
up to $4,363,000 shall be available for independent verification of 
school food service claims: Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available unless the value of bonus 
commodities provided under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (49 
Stat. 774, chapter 641; 7 U.S.C. 612c), and section 416 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431) is included in meeting the 
minimum commodity assistance requirement of section 6(g) of the National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(g)).

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $4,032,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: Provided 
further, That of the total amount available, the Secretary shall 
obligate $10,000,000 for the farmers' market nutrition program within 45 
days of the enactment of this Act, and an additional $5,000,000 for the 
farmers' market nutrition program from any funds not needed to maintain 
current caseload levels: Provided further, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC 
clinics except those that have an announced policy of prohibiting 
smoking within the space used to carry out the program: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this account shall be 
available for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance with 
the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements specified in 
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that are 
not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or agencies 
unless authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $21,071,751,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading shall be used for studies and 
evaluations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That funds made available for Employment and Training 
under this heading shall remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1157]]

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, $133,300,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program.

                         food donations programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973; special assistance for the nuclear 
affected islands as authorized by section 103(h)(2) of the Compacts of 
Free Association Act of 1985, as amended; and section 311 of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, $141,081,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2001.

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $111,561,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assisting in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law and of which not less than $3,000,000 shall 
be available to improve integrity in the Food Stamp and Child Nutrition 
programs: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $150,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $109,203,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of 
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private organizations and institutions 
under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the United States Agency for International Development.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1158]]

                public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1704, 1721-1726a, 1727-1727e, 1731-1736g-3, 
and 1737), as follows: (1) $155,000,000 for Public Law 480 title I 
credit, including Food for Progress programs; (2) $21,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985; and (3) $800,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant 
to title II of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 15 percent of the 
funds made available to carry out any title of said Act may be used to 
carry out any other title of said Act: Provided further, That such sums 
shall remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, including the cost of modifying credit 
agreements under said Act, $127,813,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, to 
the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are utilized, 
$1,850,000, of which $1,035,000 may be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales 
Manager'' and $815,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

        commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,820,000; 
to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the 
Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $3,231,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager'' and $589,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm Service 
Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1159]]

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's certificate, 
not to exceed $25,000; $1,186,072,000, of which not to exceed 
$145,434,000 in prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
379(h) may be credited to this appropriation and remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees derived from applications received during 
fiscal year 2000 shall be subject to the fiscal year 2000 limitation: 
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used to develop, 
establish, or operate any program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
9701: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated: (1) 
$269,245,000 shall be for the Center for Food Safety and Applied 
Nutrition and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (2) $309,026,000 shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation 
and Research and related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs, of which no less than $11,542,000 shall be available for grants 
and contracts awarded under section 5 of the Orphan Drug Act (21 U.S.C. 
360ee); (3) $132,092,000 shall be for the Center for Biologics 
Evaluation and Research and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs; (4) $48,821,000 shall be for the Center for 
Veterinary Medicine and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (5) $154,271,000 shall be for the Center for Devices 
and Radiological Health and for related field activities in the Office 
of Regulatory Affairs, of which $1,000,000 shall be for premarket 
review, enforcement and oversight activities related to users and 
manufacturers of all reprocessed medical devices as authorized by the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 et seq.), and of 
which no less than $55,500,000 and 522 full-time equivalent positions 
shall be for premarket application review activities to meet statutory 
review times; (6) $34,536,000 shall be for the National Center for 
Toxicological Research; (7) $34,000,000 shall be for the Office of 
Tobacco; (8) $25,855,000 shall be for Rent and Related activities, other 
than the amounts paid to the General Services Administration; (9) 
$100,180,000 shall be for payments to the General Services 
Administration for rent and related costs; and (10) $78,046,000 shall be 
for other activities, including the Office of the Commissioner; the 
Office of Policy; the Office of the Senior Associate Commissioner; the 
Office of International and Constituent Relations; the Office of Policy, 
Legislation, and Planning; and central services for these offices: 
Provided further, That funds may be transferred from one specified 
activity

[[Page 113 STAT. 1160]]

to another with the prior approval of the Committee on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263(b) 
may be credited to this account, to remain available until expended.
    In addition, export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
381 may be credited to this account, to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $11,350,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not to exceed 
$25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $63,000,000, including not 
to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 7 USC 4a note.>> That for fiscal year 2000 and 
thereafter, the Commission is authorized to charge reasonable fees to 
attendees of Commission sponsored educational events and symposia to 
cover the Commission's costs of providing those events and symposia, and 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $35,800,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 2000 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 365 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 361 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. <<NOTE: Contracts. 7 USC 1623a.>> Not less than $1,500,000 
of the appropriations of the Department of Agriculture in this Act for 
research and service

[[Page 113 STAT. 1161]]

work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 427 and 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United States 
Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said Acts 
and chapter.

    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b.>> New obligational authority provided 
for the following appropriation items in this Act shall remain available 
until expended: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the 
contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit fly program, 
integrated systems acquisition project, boll weevil program, up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program, and up to $2,000,000 for costs 
associated with colocating regional offices; Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, field automation and information management project; funds 
appropriated for rental payments; Cooperative State Research, Education, 
and Extension Service, funds for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)) and funds for the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund; 
Farm Service Agency, salaries and expenses funds made available to 
county committees; and Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income 
country training program.

    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to 
carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This does 
not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. <<NOTE: 7 USC 612c note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, commodities acquired by the Department in 
connection with the Commodity Credit Corporation and section 32 price 
support operations may be used, as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 
7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide commodities to individuals in cases of 
hardship as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against competitive agricultural research, 
education, or extension grant awards issued by the Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service that exceed 19 percent of 
total Federal funds provided under each award:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1162]]

Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), 
funds provided by this Act for grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service shall be 
available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant awarded 
under the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 
97-219 (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 712. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 713. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, effective on September 29, 1999, appropriations made 
available to the Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account for the 
costs of direct and guaranteed loans and to the Rural Housing Assistance 
Grants Account in fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in each 
of those fiscal years respectively with regard to each account.

    Sec. 714. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 2000 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 2000 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account; and the rural economic 
development loans program account.
    Sec. 715. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2000 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated by this Act.
    Sec. 716. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service; 
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; the Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service; and the food safety activities of the 
Food Safety and Inspection Service may use cooperative agreements to 
reflect a relationship between the Agricultural Marketing Service; the 
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration; the Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service; or the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service and a State or Cooperator to carry out agricultural marketing 
programs, to carry out programs to protect the Nation's animal and plant 
resources, or to carry out educational programs or special studies to 
improve the safety of the Nation's food supply.
    Sec. 717. Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including 
provisions of law requiring competition), the Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements (which may provide for the acquisition of goods 
or services, including personal services) with a State, political 
subdivision, or agency thereof, a public or private agency, 
organization, or any other person, if the Secretary determines that the 
objectives of the agreement will: (1) serve a mutual interest of the 
parties to the agreement in carrying out the Wetlands Reserve Program; 
and (2) all parties will contribute resources to the accomplishment of 
these objectives: Provided, That Commodity Credit Corporation funds 
obligated for such purposes shall not exceed the level obligated by the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for such purposes in fiscal year 1998.
    Sec. 718. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5 percent of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone

[[Page 113 STAT. 1163]]

Bank or to maintain any account or subaccount within the accounting 
records of the Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not 
specifically been authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to 
the Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural 
Telephone Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of 
current requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set 
forth for financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990.
    Sec. 719. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,800,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task forces 
of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to comply with 
negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
awarded grants: Provided, That interagency funding is authorized to 
carry out the purposes of the National Drought Policy Commission.
    Sec. 720. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918 of Public Law 104-127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act.
    Sec. 721. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or otherwise 
make available to any non-Department of Agriculture employee questions 
or responses to questions that are a result of information requested for 
the appropriations hearing process.
    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer without the prior approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 724. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming 
of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a program, 
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for 
any project or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; 
(4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes offices, programs, 
or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or 
activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; <<NOTE: Notification.>> unless the Committee

[[Page 113 STAT. 1164]]

on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds.

    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2000, or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or 
projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, 
projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 
percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general savings 
from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
Congress; <<NOTE: Notification.>> unless the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.

    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries and 
expenses of personnel to carry out the transfer or obligation of fiscal 
year 2000 funds under the provisions of section 793 of Public Law 104-
127.
    Sec. 726. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out an environmental quality incentives program authorized by 
sections 334-341 of Public Law 104-127 in excess of $174,000,000.
    Sec. 727. <<NOTE: 7 USC 7218 note.>> None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise available to the Department of Agriculture in fiscal year 
2000 or thereafter may be used to administer the provision of contract 
payments to a producer under the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for contract acreage on which wild rice is planted 
unless the contract payment is reduced by an acre for each contract acre 
planted to wild rice.

    Sec. 728. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to enroll in excess of 150,000 acres in the fiscal year 2000 wetlands 
reserve program as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3837.
    Sec. 729. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses 
of personnel to carry out the transfer or obligation of fiscal year 2000 
funds under the provisions of section 401 of Public Law 105-185, the 
Initiative for Future Agriculture and Food Systems.
    Sec. 730. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2009 note.>> Notwithstanding section 381A of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2009), in 
fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, the definitions of rural areas for 
certain business programs administered by the Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service and the community facilities programs administered by the Rural 
Housing Service shall be those provided for in statute and regulations 
prior to the enactment of Public Law 104-127.

    Sec. 731. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to carry out any commodity purchase program 
that would prohibit eligibility or participation by farmer-owned 
cooperatives.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1165]]

    Sec. 732. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to carry out a conservation farm option program, as authorized by 
section 335 of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 733. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate, or to 
plan to close or relocate, the Food and Drug Administration Division of 
Drug Analysis in St. Louis, Missouri, or the Food and Drug 
Administration Detroit, Michigan, District Office Laboratory; or to 
reduce the Detroit, Michigan, Food and Drug Administration District 
Office below the operating and full-time equivalent staffing level of 
July 31, 1999; or to change the Detroit District Office to a station, 
residence post or similarly modified office; or to reassign residence 
posts assigned to the Detroit District Office.
    Sec. 734. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1622 note.>> None of the funds made 
available by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used 
to carry out section 302(h) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 
U.S.C. 1622(h)) unless the Secretary of Agriculture inspects and 
certifies agricultural processing equipment, and imposes a fee for the 
inspection and certification, in a manner that is similar to the 
inspection and certification of agricultural products under that 
section, as determined by the Secretary: Provided, That this provision 
shall not affect the authority of the Secretary to carry out the Federal 
Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Poultry Products 
Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.), or the Egg Products Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 1031 et seq.).

    Sec. 735. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who 
prepare or submit appropriations language as part of the President's 
Budget submission to the Congress of the United States for programs 
under the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittees on 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies that assumes 
revenues or reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees 
proposals that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of 
the Budget unless such Budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the users fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2001 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 736. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to establish an Office of Community Food 
Security or any similar office within the United States Department of 
Agriculture without the prior approval of the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 737. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used to carry out provision of section 
612 of Public Law 105-185.
    Sec. 738. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
to carry out the emergency food assistance program authorized by section 
27(a) of the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)) if such program exceeds 
$98,000,000.
    Sec. 739. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation of the 
Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1166]]

    Sec. 740. <<NOTE: 16 USC 590h note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, in fiscal year 2000 and thereafter, permanent 
employees of county committees employed on or after October 1, 1998, 
pursuant to 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 
U.S.C. 590h(b)) shall be considered as having Federal Civil Service 
status only for the purpose of applying for United States Department of 
Agriculture Civil Service vacancies.

    Sec. 741. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to declare excess or surplus all or part of the 
lands and facilities owned by the Federal Government and administered by 
the Secretary of Agriculture at Fort Reno, Oklahoma, or to transfer or 
convey such lands or facilities, without the specific authorization of 
Congress.
    Sec. 742. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chief of 
the Natural Resources Conservation Service shall provide funds, within 
discretionary amounts available, for the settlement of claims associated 
with the Chuquatonchee Watershed Project in Mississippi to close out 
this project.
    Sec. 743. <<NOTE: Deadline. Contracts. Hawaii. Mail.>> (a) Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall offer to enter into an agreement with the Governor 
of the State of Hawaii to conduct a pilot program to inspect mail 
entering the State of Hawaii for any plant, plant product, plant pest, 
or other organism that is subject to Federal quarantine laws.

    (b) The agreement described in subsection (a) shall contain the same 
terms and conditions as are contained in the memorandum of understanding 
entered into between the Secretary and the State of California, dated 
February 1, 1999, unless the Secretary and the Governor agree to 
different terms or conditions.
    (c) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> Unless the Secretary and the 
Governor agree otherwise, the agreement described in subsection (b) 
shall terminate on the later of--
            (1) the date that is 1 year after the date the agreement 
        becomes effective; or
            (2) the date that the February 1, 1999 memorandum of 
        understanding terminates.

    Sec. 744. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
is authorized under section 306 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926), to provide guaranteed lines 
of credit, including working capital loans, for health care facilities, 
to address Year 2000 computer conversion issues.
    Sec. 745. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> After taking any action involving the 
seizure, quarantine, treatment, destruction, or disposal of wheat 
infested with karnal bunt, the Secretary of Agriculture shall compensate 
the producers and handlers for economic losses incurred as the result of 
the action not later than 45 days after receipt of a claim that includes 
all appropriate paperwork.

    Sec. 746. In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated or made 
available by this Act, $2,000,000 is appropriated for the purpose of 
providing Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland Hunger Fellowships through the 
Congressional Hunger Center, which is an organization described in 
subsection (c)(3) of section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
and is exempt from taxation under subsection (a) of such section.
    Sec. 747. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are 
hereby appropriated $250,000 for the program authorized under

[[Page 113 STAT. 1167]]

section 388 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 
1996, solely for use in the State of New Hampshire.
    Sec. 748. The Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1188 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 218(c)(1) <<NOTE: 8 USC 1188.>> by striking 
        ``60 days'' and inserting ``45 days''; and
            (2) in section 218(c)(3)(A) by striking ``20 days'' and 
        inserting ``30 days''.

    Sec. 749. Successorship Provisions Relating to Bargaining Units and 
Exclusive Representatives. (a) Voluntary Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--If the exercise of the Secretary of 
        Agriculture's authority under this section results in changes to 
        an existing bargaining unit that has been certified under 
        chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, the affected parties 
        shall attempt to reach a voluntary agreement on a new bargaining 
        unit and an exclusive representative for such unit.
            (2) Criteria.--In carrying out the requirements of this 
        subsection, the affected parties shall use criteria set forth 
        in--
                    (A) sections 7103(a)(4), 7111(e), 7111(f )(1), and 
                7120 of title 5, United States Code, relating to 
                determining an exclusive representative; and
                    (B) section 7112 of title 5, United States Code 
                (disregarding subsections (b)(5) and (d) thereof ), 
                relating to determining appropriate units.

    (b) Effect of an Agreement.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Certification.>> general.--If the affected 
        parties reach agreement on the appropriate unit and the 
        exclusive representative for such unit under subsection (a), the 
        Federal Labor Relations Authority shall certify the terms of 
        such agreement, subject to paragraph (2)(A). Nothing in this 
        subsection shall be considered to require the holding of any 
        hearing or election as a condition for certification.
            (2) Restrictions.--
                    (A) Conditions requiring noncertification.--The 
                Federal Labor Relations Authority may not certify the 
                terms of an agreement under paragraph (1) if--
                          (i) it determines that any of the criteria 
                      referred to in subsection (a)(2) (disregarding 
                      section 7112(a) of title 5, United States Code) 
                      have not been met; or
                          (ii) after the Secretary's exercise of 
                      authority and before certification under this 
                      section, a valid election under section 7111(b) of 
                      title 5, United States Code, is held covering any 
                      employees who would be included in the unit 
                      proposed for certification.
                    (B) Temporary waiver of provision that would bar an 
                election after a collective bargaining agreement is 
                reached.--Nothing in section 7111(f )(3) of title 5, 
                United States Code, shall prevent the holding of an 
                election under section 7111(b) of such title that covers 
                employees within a unit certified under paragraph (1), 
                or giving effect to the results of such an election 
                (including a decision not to be represented by any labor 
                organization), if the election is held before the end of 
                the 12-month period beginning on the date such unit is 
                so certified.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1168]]

                    (C) Clarification.--The certification of a unit 
                under paragraph (1) shall not, for purposes of the last 
                sentence of section 7111(b) of title 5, United States 
                Code, or section 7111(f )(4) of such title, be treated 
                as if it had occurred pursuant to an election.
            (3) Delegation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal Labor Relations 
                Authority may delegate to any regional director (as 
                referred to in section 7105(e) of title 5, United States 
                Code) its authority under the preceding provisions of 
                this subsection.
                    (B) Review.--Any action taken by a regional director 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to review under 
                the provisions of section 7105(f ) of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the same manner as if such action had 
                been taken under section 7105(e) of such title, except 
                that in the case of a decision not to certify, such 
                review shall be required if application therefore is 
                filed by an affected party within the time specified in 
                such provisions.

    (c) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``affected 
party'' means--
            (1) with respect to an exercise of authority by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under this section, any labor 
        organization affected thereby; and
            (2) the Department of Agriculture.

    Sec. 750. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act or any other Act shall be used for the implementation of a 
Support Services Bureau or similar organization.
    Sec. 751. Contracts for Procurement or Processing of Certain 
Commodities. (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) HUBZone sole source contract.--The term ``HUBZone sole 
        source contract'' means a sole source contract authorized by 
        section 31 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657a).
            (2) HUBZone price evaluation preference.--The term ``HUBZone 
        price evaluation preference'' means a price evaluation 
        preference authorized by section 31 of the Small Business Act 
        (15 U.S.C. 657a).
            (3) Qualified HUBZone small business concern.--The term 
        ``qualified HUBZone small business concern'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 3(p) of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 632(p)).
            (4) Covered procurement.--The term ``covered procurement'' 
        means a contract for the procurement or processing of a 
        commodity furnished under title II or III of the Agricultural 
        Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1721 et 
        seq.), section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 
        1431(b)), the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), or 
        any other commodity procurement or acquisition by the Commodity 
        Credit Corporation under any other law.

    (b) Prohibition of Use of Funds.--None of the funds made available 
by this Act may be used:
            (1) to award a HUBZone sole source contract or a contract 
        awarded through full and open competition in combination with a 
        HUBZone price evaluation preference to any qualified HUBZone 
        small business concern in any covered procurement if performance 
        of the contract by the business concern would

[[Page 113 STAT. 1169]]

        exceed the production capacity of the business concern or would 
        require the business concern to subcontract to any other company 
        or enterprise for the purchase of the commodity being procured 
        through the covered procurement; and
            (2) in any contract awarded through full and open 
        competition in any covered procurement--
                    (A) to fund a price evaluation preference greater 
                than 5 percent if the dollar value of the contract 
                awarded is not greater than 50 percent of the total 
                dollar value being procured in a single tender for a 
                commodity; or
                    (B) to fund any price evaluation preference at all 
                if the dollar value of the contract awarded is greater 
                than 50 percent of the total dollar value being procured 
                in a single tender for a commodity.

    Sec. 752. Redesignation of National School Lunch Act as Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act. (a) In General.--The first section of 
the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 note) is amended by 
striking ``National School Lunch Act'' and inserting ``Richard B. 
Russell National School Lunch Act''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The following provisions of law are 
amended by striking ``National School Lunch Act'' each place it appears 
and inserting ``Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act'':
            (1) Sections 3 and 13(3)(A) of the Commodity Distribution 
        Reform Act and WIC Amendments of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 612c note; 
        Public Law 100-237).
            (2) Section 404 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 
        1424).
            (3) Section 201(a) of the Act entitled ``An Act to extend 
        the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, 
        and for other purposes'', approved September 21, 1959 (7 U.S.C. 
        1431c(a); 73 Stat. 610).
            (4) Section 211(a) of the Agricultural Trade Suspension 
        Adjustment Act of 1980 (7 U.S.C. 4004(a)).
            (5) Section 245A(h)(4)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1255a(h)(4)(A)).
            (6) Sections 403(c)(2)(C), 422(b)(3), 423(d)(3), 741(a)(1), 
        and 742 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
        Reconciliation Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1613(c)(2)(C), 1632(b)(3), 
        1183a note, 42 U.S.C. 1751 note, 8 U.S.C. 1615; Public Law 104-
        193).
            (7) Section 2243(b) of title 10, United States Code.
            (8) Sections 404B(g)(1)(A), 404D(c)(2), and 404F(a)(2) of 
        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a-22(g)(1)(A), 
        1070a-24(c)(2), 1070a-26(a)(2); Public Law 105-244).
            (9) Section 231(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Carl D. Perkins 
        Vocational Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2341(d)(3)(A)(i)).
            (10) Section 1113(a)(5) of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6313(a)(5)).
            (11) Section 1397E(d)(4)(A)(iv)(II) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of <<NOTE: 26 USC 1397E.>> 1986.
            (12) Sections 254(b)(2)(B) and 263(a)(2)(C) of the Job 
        Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1633(b)(2)(B), 
        1643(a)(2)(C)).
            (13) Section 3803(c)(2)(C)(xiii) of title 31, United States 
        Code.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1170]]

            (14) Section 602(d)(9)(A) of the Federal Property and 
        Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 474(d)(9)(A)).
            (15) Sections 2(4), 3(1), and 301 of the Healthy Meals for 
        Healthy Americans Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 1751 note; Public Law 
        103-448).
            (16) Sections 3, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16(b), 17, and 19(d) of the 
        Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1773, 1776, 1779, 
        1782, 1785(b), 1786, 1788(d)).
            (17) Section 658O(b)(3) of the Child Care and Development 
        Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858m(b)(3)).
            (18) Subsection (b) of the first section of Public Law 87-
        688 (48 U.S.C. 1666(b)).
            (19) Section 10405(a)(2)(H) of the Omnibus Budget 
        Reconciliation Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-239; 103 Stat. 2489).

    Sec. 753. Public Law 105-199 (112 Stat. 641) is amended in section 
3(b)(1)(G) by striking ``persons'' and inserting ``governors, who may be 
represented on the Commission by their respective designees,''.
    Sec. 754. Section 889 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 <<NOTE: 42 USC 5121 note.>> is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by inserting ``HARRY K. DUPREE'' before 
        ``STUTTGART'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in the heading, by inserting ``HARRY K. DUPREE'' 
                before ``STUTTGART''; and
                    (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by inserting 
                ``Harry K. Dupree'' before ``Stuttgart National 
                Aquaculture Research Center'' each place it appears.

    Sec. 755. Tobacco Leasing and Information. (a) Cross-County 
Leasing.--Section 319(l) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1314e(l)) is amended in the second sentence by inserting ``, 
Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky,'' after ``Tennessee''.
    (b) Tobacco Production and Marketing Information.--Part I of 
subtitle B of title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1311 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 320D. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1314j.>> TOBACCO PRODUCTION AND MARKETING 
            INFORMATION.

    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may, subject to subsection (b), release marketing information 
submitted by persons relating to the production and marketing of tobacco 
to State trusts or similar organizations engaged in the distribution of 
national trust funds to tobacco producers and other persons with 
interests associated with the production of tobacco, as determined by 
the Secretary.
    ``(b) Limitations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Information may be released under 
        subsection (a) only to the extent that--
                    ``(A) the release is in the interest of tobacco 
                producers, as determined by the Secretary; and
                    ``(B) the information is released to a State trust 
                or other organization that is created to, or charged 
                with, distributing funds to tobacco producers or other 
                parties with an interest in tobacco production or 
                tobacco farms under a national or State trust or 
                settlement.
            ``(2) Exemption from release.--The Secretary shall, to the 
        maximum extent practicable, in advance of making a

[[Page 113 STAT. 1171]]

        release of information under subsection (a), allow, by 
        announcement, a period of at least 15 days for persons whose 
        consent would otherwise be required by law to effectuate the 
        release, to elect to be exempt from the release.

    ``(c) Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--In making a release under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary may provide such other assistance with respect to 
        information released under subsection (a) as will facilitate the 
        interest of producers in receiving the funds that are the 
        subject of a trust described in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Funds.--The Secretary shall use amounts made available 
        for salaries and expenses of the Department to carry out 
        paragraph (1).

    ``(d) Records.--
            ``(1) In general.--A person who obtains information 
        described in subsection (a) shall maintain records that are 
        consistent with the purposes of the release and shall not use 
        the records for any purpose not authorized under this section.
            ``(2) Penalty.--A person who knowingly violates this 
        subsection shall be fined not more than $10,000, imprisoned not 
        more than 1 year, or both.

    ``(e) Application.--This section shall not apply to--
            ``(1) records submitted by cigarette manufacturers with 
        respect to the production of cigarettes;
            ``(2) records that were submitted as expected purchase 
        intentions in connection with the establishment of national 
        tobacco quotas; or
            ``(3) records that aggregate the purchases of particular 
        buyers.''.

    Sec. 756. <<NOTE: New Hampshire.>> Notwithstanding section 306(a)(7) 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1926(a)(7)), the City of Berlin, New Hampshire, shall be eligible during 
fiscal year 2000 for a rural utilities grant or loan under the Rural 
Community Advancement Program.

    Sec. 757. Cranberry Marketing Orders. (a) Paid Advertising for 
Cranberries and Cranberry Products.--Section 8c(6)(I) of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(6)(I)), reenacted with 
amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, is 
amended in the first proviso--
            (1) by striking ``or Florida grown strawberries'' and 
        inserting ``, Florida grown strawberries, or cranberries''; and
            (2) by striking ``and Florida Indian River grapefruit'' and 
        inserting ``Florida Indian River grapefruit, and cranberries''.

    (b) Collection of Cranberry Inventory Data.--Section 8d of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608d), reenacted with amendments 
by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(3) Collection of cranberry inventory data.--
            ``(A) In general.--If an order is in effect with respect to 
        cranberries, the Secretary of Agriculture may require persons 
        engaged in the handling or importation of cranberries or 
        cranberry products (including producer-handlers, second 
        handlers, processors, brokers, and importers) to provide such 
        information as the Secretary considers necessary to effectuate 
        the declared policy of this title, including information on 
        acquisitions, inventories, and dispositions of cranberries and 
        cranberry products.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1172]]

            ``(B) Delegation to committee.--The Secretary may delegate 
        the authority to carry out subparagraph (A) to any committee 
        that is responsible for administering an order covering 
        cranberries.
            ``(C) Confidentiality.--
        Paragraph <<NOTE: Applicability.>> (2) shall apply to 
        information provided under this paragraph.
            ``(D) Violations.--Any person who violates this paragraph 
        shall be subject to the penalties provided under section 
        8c(14).''.

    Sec. 758. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Beginning in fiscal year 2001 
and thereafter, the Food Stamp Act (Public Law 95-113, section 
16(a)) <<NOTE: 7 USC 2025.>> is amended by inserting after the phrase 
``Indian reservation under section 11(d) of this Act'' the following new 
phrase: ``or in a Native village within the State of Alaska identified 
in section 11(b) of Public Law 92-203, as amended.''.

    Sec. 759. Education <<NOTE: 7 USC 3242.>> Grants to Alaska Native 
Serving Institutions and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions. (a) 
Education Grants Program for Alaska Native Serving Institutions.--
            (1) Grant authority.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
        competitive grants (or grants without regard to any requirement 
        for competition) to Alaska Native serving institutions for the 
        purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Alaska 
        Native serving institutions to carry out education, applied 
        research, and related community development programs.
            (2) Use of grant funds.--Grants made under this section 
        shall be used--
                    (A) to support the activities of consortia of Alaska 
                Native serving institutions to enhance educational 
                equity for under represented students;
                    (B) to strengthen institutional educational 
                capacities, including libraries, curriculum, faculty, 
                scientific instrumentation, instruction delivery 
                systems, and student recruitment and retention, in order 
                to respond to identified State, regional, national, or 
                international educational needs in the food and 
                agriculture sciences;
                    (C) to attract and support undergraduate and 
                graduate students from under represented groups in order 
                to prepare them for careers related to the food, 
                agricultural, and natural resource systems of the United 
                States, beginning with the mentoring of students at the 
                high school level including by village elders and 
                continuing with the provision of financial support for 
                students through their attainment of a doctoral degree; 
                and
                    (D) to facilitate cooperative initiatives between 
                two or more Alaska Native serving institutions, or 
                between Alaska Native serving institutions and units of 
                State government or the private sector, to maximize the 
                development and use of resources, such as faculty, 
                facilities, and equipment, to improve food and 
                agricultural sciences teaching programs.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to make grants under this subsection 
        $10,000,000 in fiscal years 2001 through 2006.

    (b) Education Grants Program for Native Hawaiian Serving 
Institutions.--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1173]]

            (1) Grant authority.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make 
        competitive grants (or grants without regard to any requirement 
        for competition) to Native Hawaiian serving institutions for the 
        purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Native 
        Hawaiian serving institutions to carry out education, applied 
        research, and related community development programs.
            (2) Use of grant funds.--Grants made under this section 
        shall be used--
                    (A) to support the activities of consortia of Native 
                Hawaiian serving institutions to enhance educational 
                equity for under represented students;
                    (B) to strengthen institutional educational 
                capacities, including libraries, curriculum, faculty, 
                scientific instrumentation, instruction delivery 
                systems, and student recruitment and retention, in order 
                to respond to identified State, regional, national, or 
                international educational needs in the food and 
                agriculture sciences;
                    (C) to attract and support undergraduate and 
                graduate students from under represented groups in order 
                to prepare them for careers related to the food, 
                agricultural, and natural resource systems of the United 
                States, beginning with the mentoring of students at the 
                high school level and continuing with the provision of 
                financial support for students through their attainment 
                of a doctoral degree; and
                    (D) to facilitate cooperative initiatives between 
                two or more Native Hawaiian serving institutions, or 
                between Native Hawaiian serving institutions and units 
                of State government or the private sector, to maximize 
                the development and use of resources, such as faculty, 
                facilities, and equipment, to improve food and 
                agricultural sciences teaching programs.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to make grants under this subsection 
        $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2006.

    Sec. 760. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective October 1, 1999, 
section 8c(11) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(11)), 
reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 
1937, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``The price of milk 
paid by a handler at a plant operating in Clark County, Nevada shall not 
be subject to any order issued under this section.''.

    Sec. 761. <<NOTE: New York.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the City of Olean, New York, shall be eligible for grants and loans 
administered by the Rural Utilities Service.

    Sec. 762. <<NOTE: Puerto Rico.>> Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Municipality of Carolina, Puerto Rico shall be eligible for 
grants and loans administered by the Rural Utilities Service.

    Sec. 763. Section 1232(a) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3832(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9), by adding ``and'' after the semicolon 
        at the end;
                    (2) in paragraph (10), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (3) by striking paragraph (11).

    Sec. 764. None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
shall be used to implement Notice CRP-338, issued by the Farm Service 
Agency on March 10, 1999, nor shall funds be

[[Page 113 STAT. 1174]]

used to implement any related administrative action including 
implementation of such procedures published in Farm Service Agency 
program manuals: Provided, That rental payments for any lands enrolled 
in the Conservation Reserve Program under this section shall be reduced 
by an amount equal to the Federal cost of any remaining value of a 
federally cost-shared conservation practice as determined by the 
Secretary.
    Sec. 765. None of the funds made available by this or any other Act 
shall be used to implement Notice CRP-327, issued by the Farm Service 
Agency on October 26, 1998, nor shall funds be used to implement any 
related administrative action including implementation of such 
procedures published in Farm Service Agency program manuals: Provided, 
That this section shall not apply to any lands for which there is not 
full compliance with the conservation practices required under terms of 
the CRP contract.
    Sec. 766. <<NOTE: Federal buildings and facilities.>> The Federal 
facility located in Riverside, California, and known as the ``U.S. 
Salinity Laboratory'', shall be known and designated as the ``George E. 
Brown, Jr., Salinity Laboratory'': Provided, That any reference in any 
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to such Federal facility shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``George E. Brown, Jr., Salinity Laboratory''.

    Sec. 767. Sections 657, 658, 1006, and 1014 of title 18, United 
States Code, are amended by--
            (1) inserting ``or successor agency'' after ``Farmers Home 
        Administration'' each place it appears; and
            (2) inserting ``or successor agency'' after ``Rural 
        Development Administration'' each place it appears.

    Sec. 768. <<NOTE: Alaska.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the maximum income limits established for single family housing for 
families and individuals in the high cost areas of Alaska shall be 150 
percent of the State metropolitan income level for Alaska.

    Sec. 769. Section 1232(a)(7) of the Food Security <<NOTE: 16 USC 
3832.>> Act of 1985 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``except that the Secretary may permit 
        harvesting'' and inserting ``except that the Secretary--
                    ``(A) may permit--
                          ``(i) harvesting'';
            (2) by striking ``emergency, and the Secretary may permit 
        limited'' and inserting ``emergency; and
                          ``(ii) limited'';
            (3) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon at the end; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) shall approve not more than six projects, no 
                more than one of which may be in any State, under which 
                land subject to the contract may be harvested for 
                recovery of biomass used in energy production if--
                          ``(i) no acreage subject to the contract is 
                      harvested more than once every other year;
                          ``(ii) not more than 25 percent of the total 
                      acreage enrolled in the program under this 
                      subchapter in any crop reporting district (as 
                      designated by the Secretary), is harvested in any 
                      1 year;
                          ``(iii) no portion of the crop is used for any 
                      commercial purpose other than energy production 
                      from biomass;

[[Page 113 STAT. 1175]]

                          ``(iv) no wetland, or acreage of any type 
                      enrolled in a partial field conservation practice 
                      (including riparian forest buffers, filter strips, 
                      and buffer strips), is harvested;
                          ``(v) the owner or operator agrees to a 
                      payment reduction under this section in an amount 
                      determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(C) the total acres for all of the projects shall 
                not exceed 250,000 acres.''.

       TITLE VIII--EMERGENCY AND DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR PRODUCERS

               Subtitle A--Crop and Market Loss Assistance

SEC. 801. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> CROP LOSS ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
title as the ``Secretary'') shall use $1,200,000,000 of funds of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make emergency financial assistance 
available to producers on a farm that have incurred losses in a 1999 
crop due to a disaster, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall make assistance available 
under this section in the same manner as provided under section 1102 of 
the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; Public 
Law 105-277), including using the same loss thresholds as were used in 
administering that section.
    (c) Qualifying Losses.--Assistance under this section may be made 
for losses associated with crops that are, as determined by the 
Secretary--
            (1) quantity losses;
            (2) quality losses; or
            (3) severe economic losses due to damaging weather or 
        related condition.

    (d) Crops Covered.--Assistance under this section shall be 
applicable to losses for all crops (including losses of trees from which 
a crop is harvested, livestock, and fisheries), as determined by the 
Secretary, due to disasters.
    (e) Crop Insurance.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall not discriminate against or penalize producers on a farm that have 
purchased crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1501 et seq.).
    (f ) Rice Loan Deficiency Payments.--In the case of producers of the 
1999 crop of rice that harvested such rice on or before August 4, 1999, 
the Secretary may use funds made available under this section to--
            (1) make loan deficiency payments to producers that 
        received, or that were eligible to receive, such payments under 
        section 135 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 
        7235) in a manner that results in the same total payment that 
        would have been made if the payment had been requested by the 
        producers on August 5, 1999; and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1176]]

            (2) recalculate any repayment made for a marketing 
        assistance loan for the 1999 crop of rice on or before August 4, 
        1999, as if the repayment had been made on August 5, 1999.

    (g) Honey Recourse Loans.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        in order to assist producers of honey to market their honey in 
        an orderly manner during a period of disastrously low prices, 
        the Secretary may use funds made available under this section to 
        make available recourse loans to producers of the 1999 crop of 
        honey on fair and reasonable terms and conditions, as determined 
        by the Secretary.
            (2) Loan rate.--The loan rate of the loans shall be 85 
        percent of the average price of honey during the 5-crop year 
        period preceding the 1999 crop year, excluding the crop year in 
        which the average price of honey was the highest and the crop 
        year in which the average price of honey was the lowest in the 
        period.

    (h) Recourse Loans for Mohair.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, during fiscal year 
        2000, the Secretary may use funds made available under this 
        section to make recourse loans available in accordance with 
        section 137(c) of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
        U.S.C. 7237(c)) to producers of mohair produced during or before 
        that fiscal year.
            (2) Interest.--Section 137(c)(4) of that Act shall not apply 
        to a loan made under paragraph (1).

SEC. 802. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> MARKET LOSS ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Assistance Authorized.--The Secretary shall use not more than 
$5,544,453,000 of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide 
assistance to owners and producers on a farm that are eligible for final 
payments for fiscal year 1999 under a production flexibility contract 
for the farm under the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 
et seq.).
    (b) Amount.--The amount of assistance made available to owners and 
producers on a farm under this section shall be proportionate to the 
amount of the contract payment received by the owners and producers for 
fiscal year 1999 under a production flexibility contract for the farm 
under the Agricultural Market Transition Act.
    (c) Protection of Tenants and Sharecroppers; Sharing of Payments.--
Sections 111(c) and 114(g) of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7211(c), 7214(g)) shall apply to the payments made under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 803. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SPECIALTY CROPS.

    (a) Peanuts.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use such amounts as are 
        necessary of funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to 
        provide payments to producers of quota peanuts or additional 
        peanuts to partially compensate the producers for continuing low 
        commodity prices, and increasing costs of production, for the 
        1999 crop year.
            (2) Amount.--The amount of a payment made to producers on a 
        farm of quota peanuts or additional peanuts under paragraph (1) 
        shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1177]]

                    (A) the quantity of quota peanuts or additional 
                peanuts produced or considered produced by the 
                producers; and
                    (B) an amount equal to 5 percent of the loan rate 
                established for quota peanuts or additional peanuts, 
                respectively, under section 155 of the Agricultural 
                Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7271).

    (b) Condition on Payment of Salaries and Expenses.--None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other 
Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the 
Department of Agriculture to carry out or enforce section 156(f ) of the 
Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7272(f )) through fiscal 
year 2001.
    (c) Tobacco.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall use $328,000,000 of 
        funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make payments to 
        States on behalf of persons described in paragraph (2) for the 
        reduction in the quantity of quota allotted to certain farms 
        under part I of subtitle B of title III of the Agricultural 
        Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.) from the 1998 
        crop year to the 1999 crop year.
            (2) Eligible persons.--To be eligible to receive a payment 
        under paragraphs (1) through (5), a person must own or operate, 
        or produce tobacco on, a farm--
                    (A) for which the quantity of quota allotted to the 
                farm under part I of subtitle B of title III of the 
                Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1311 et 
                seq.) was reduced from the 1998 crop year to the 1999 
                crop year; and
                    (B) that was used for the production of tobacco 
                during the 1998 or 1999 crop year.
            (3) Allocation to states.--The Secretary shall allocate 
        funds made available under paragraph (1) to States with eligible 
        persons described in paragraph (2) in proportion to the relative 
        quantity of quota allotted to farms in the States that was 
        reduced from the 1998 crop year to the 1999 crop year.
            (4) Distribution by states.--
                    (A) In general.--In the case of a State described in 
                paragraph (3) that is a party to the National Tobacco 
                Grower Settlement Trust, the State shall distribute 
                funds made available under paragraph (3) to eligible 
                persons in the State in accordance with the formulas 
                established pursuant to the Trust.
                    (B) Other states.--Subject to the approval of the 
                Secretary, in the case of a State described in paragraph 
                (3) that is not a party to the National Tobacco Grower 
                Settlement Trust, the State shall distribute funds made 
                available under paragraph (3) to eligible persons in the 
                State in a manner determined by the State.
            (5) Alternative distribution.--In lieu of making payments 
        under this subsection to States, the Secretary may distribute 
        funds directly to eligible persons using the facilities of 
        private disbursing agents, facilities of the Farm Service 
        Agency, or other available facilities.
            (6) Flue-cured tobacco.--
                    (A) Limitation on quantity of allotment leased or 
                sold.--Section 316(e) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act 
                of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1316(e)) <<NOTE: 7 USC 1314b.>> is 
                amended--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1178]]

                          (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``farm or, 
                      in'' and all that follows through ``: Provided, 
                      That in'' and inserting ``farm. In'';
                          (ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as 
                      paragraph (3); and
                          (iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the 
                      following:

    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to flue-cured tobacco.''.
                    (B) Transfers of quota or allotment across county 
                lines in a state.--Section 316(g) of the Agricultural 
                Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1314b(g)) is amended by 
                adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Transfers allowed by referendum.--
                    ``(A) Referendum.--On the request of at least 25 
                percent of the active flue-cured tobacco producers 
                within a State, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum 
                of the active flue-cured tobacco producers within the 
                State to determine whether the producers favor or oppose 
                permitting the sale of a flue-cured tobacco allotment or 
                quota from a farm in a State to any other farm in the 
                State.
                    ``(B) Approval.--If the Secretary determines that a 
                majority of the active flue-cured tobacco producers 
                voting in the referendum approves permitting the sale of 
                a flue-cured tobacco allotment or quota from a farm in 
                the State to any other farm in the State, the Secretary 
                shall permit the sale of a flue-cured tobacco allotment 
                or quota from a farm in the State to any other farm in 
                the State.''.
                    (C) Same grower in contiguous counties.--Section 
                379(b) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
                U.S.C. 1379(b)) is amended by inserting ``or flue-
                cured'' after ``Burley''.

SEC. 804. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> OILSEEDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall use $475,000,000 of funds of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation to make payments to producers of the 
1999 crop of oilseeds that are eligible to obtain a marketing assistance 
loan under section 131 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7231).
    (b) Computation.--A payment to producers on a farm under this 
section for an oilseed shall be equal to the product obtained by 
multiplying--
            (1) a payment rate determined by the Secretary;
            (2) the acreage of the producers on the farm for the 
        oilseed, as determined under subsection (c); and
            (3) the yield of the producers on the farm for the oilseed, 
        as determined under subsection (d).

    (c) Acreage.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        acreage of the producers on the farm for an oilseed under 
        subsection (b)(2) shall be equal to the greater of--
                    (A) the number of acres planted to the oilseed by 
                the producers on the farm during the 1997 crop year, as 
                reported by the producers on the farm to the Secretary 
                (including any acreage reports that are filed late); or
                    (B) the number of acres planted to the oilseed by 
                the producers on the farm during the 1998 crop year, as 
                reported by the producers on the farm to the Secretary 
                (including any acreage reports that are filed late).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1179]]

            (2) New producers.--In the case of producers on a farm that 
        planted acreage to an oilseed during the 1999 crop year but not 
        the 1997 or 1998 crop year, the acreage of the producers for the 
        oilseed under subsection (b)(2) shall be equal to the number of 
        acres planted to the oilseed by the producers on the farm during 
        the 1999 crop year, as reported by the producers on the farm to 
        the Secretary (including any acreage reports that are filed 
        late).

    (d) Yield.--
            (1) Soybeans.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), in the 
        case of soybeans, the yield of the producers on a farm under 
        subsection (b)(3) shall be equal to the greatest of--
                    (A) the average county yield per harvested acre for 
                each of the 1994 through 1998 crop years, excluding the 
                crop year with the highest yield per harvested acre and 
                the crop year with the lowest yield per harvested acre;
                    (B) the actual yield of the producers on the farm 
                for the 1997 crop year; or
                    (C) the actual yield of the producers on the farm 
                for the 1998 crop year.
            (2) Other oilseeds.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), in 
        the case of oilseeds other than soybeans, the yield of the 
        producers on a farm under subsection (b)(3) shall be equal to 
        the greatest of--
                    (A) the average national yield per harvested acre 
                for each of the 1994 through 1998 crop years, excluding 
                the crop year with the highest yield per harvested acre 
                and the crop year with the lowest yield per harvested 
                acre;
                    (B) the actual yield of the producers on the farm 
                for the 1997 crop year; or
                    (C) the actual yield of the producers on the farm 
                for the 1998 crop year.
            (3) New producers.--In the case of producers on a farm that 
        planted acreage to an oilseed during the 1999 crop year but not 
        the 1997 or 1998 crop year, the yield of the producers on a farm 
        under subsection (b)(3) shall be equal to the greater of--
                    (A) the average county yield per harvested acre for 
                each of the 1994 through 1998 crop years, excluding the 
                crop year with the highest yield per harvested acre and 
                the crop year with the lowest yield per harvested acre; 
                or
                    (B) the actual yield of the producers on the farm 
                for the 1999 crop.
            (4) Data source.--To the maximum extent available, the 
        Secretary shall use data provided by the National Agricultural 
        Statistics Service to carry out this subsection.

SEC. 805. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> LIVESTOCK AND DAIRY.

    The Secretary shall use $325,000,000 of funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to provide assistance directly to livestock and dairy 
producers, in a manner determined appropriate by the Secretary, to 
compensate the producers for economic losses incurred during 1999.

SEC. 806. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> UPLAND COTTON.

    (a) In General.--Section 136(a) of the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7236(a)) is amended--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1180]]

            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or cash payments'' and 
        inserting ``or cash payments, at the option of the recipient,'';
            (2) by striking ``3 cents per pound'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``1.25 cents per pound'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in the first sentence of subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``owned by the Commodity Credit Corporation in 
                such manner, and at such price levels, as the Secretary 
                determines will best effectuate the purposes of cotton 
                user marketing certificates'' and inserting ``owned by 
                the Commodity Credit Corporation or pledged to the 
                Commodity Credit Corporation as collateral for a loan in 
                such manner, and at such price levels, as the Secretary 
                determines will best effectuate the purposes of cotton 
                user marketing certificates, including enhancing the 
                competitiveness and marketability of United States 
                cotton''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the second 
                sentence; and
            (4) by striking paragraph (4).

    (b) Ensuring the Availability of Upland Cotton.--Section 136(b) of 
the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7236(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Establishment.--
                    ``(A) In <<NOTE: President.>> general.--The 
                President shall carry out an import quota program during 
                the period ending July 31, 2003, as provided in this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Program requirements.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (C), whenever the Secretary determines and 
                announces that for any consecutive 4-week period, the 
                Friday through Thursday average price quotation for the 
                lowest-priced United States growth, as quoted for 
                Middling (M) 1\3/32\-inch cotton, delivered C.I.F. 
                Northern Europe, adjusted for the value of any 
                certificate issued under subsection (a), exceeds the 
                Northern Europe price by more than 1.25 cents per pound, 
                there shall immediately be in effect a special import 
                quota.
                    ``(C) Tight domestic supply.--During any month for 
                which the Secretary estimates the season-ending United 
                States upland cotton stocks-to-use ratio, as determined 
                under subparagraph (D), to be below 16 percent, the 
                Secretary, in making the determination under 
                subparagraph (B), shall not adjust the Friday through 
                Thursday average price quotation for the lowest-priced 
                United States growth, as quoted for Middling (M) 1\3/
                32\-inch cotton, delivered C.I.F. Northern Europe, for 
                the value of any certificates issued under subsection 
                (a).
                    ``(D) Season-ending united states stocks-to-use 
                ratio.--For the purposes of making estimates under 
                subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall, on a monthly 
                basis, estimate and report the season-ending United 
                States upland cotton stocks-to-use ratio, excluding 
                projected raw cotton imports but including the quantity 
                of raw cotton that has been imported into the United 
                States during the marketing year.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1181]]

            ``(7) Limitation.--The quantity of cotton entered into the 
        United States during any marketing year under the special import 
        quota established under this subsection may not exceed the 
        equivalent of 5 week's consumption of upland cotton by domestic 
        mills at the seasonally adjusted average rate of the 3 months 
        immediately preceding the first special import quota established 
        in any marketing year.''.

SEC. 807. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> MILK.

    (a) In General.--Section 141 of the Agricultural Market Transition 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7251) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ``calendar year 1999'' 
        and inserting ``each of calendar years 1999 and 2000''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``1999'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``2000''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 142(e) of the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7252(e)) is amended by striking ``2000'' and 
inserting ``2001''.

                      Subtitle B--Other Assistance

SEC. 811. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE PAYMENT IN 
            FULL OF REMAINING PAYMENTS UNDER PRODUCTION FLEXIBILITY 
            CONTRACTS.

    Section 112(d)(3) of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7212(d)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``for fiscal year 
        1999''; and
            (2) by striking ``for fiscal year 1999'' and inserting ``for 
        any of fiscal years 1999 through 2002''.

SEC. 812. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> COMMODITY CERTIFICATES.

    Subtitle E of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7281 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 166. <<NOTE: 7 USC 7286.>> COMMODITY CERTIFICATES.

    ``(a) In General.--In making in-kind payments under subtitle C, the 
Commodity Credit Corporation may--
            ``(1) acquire and use commodities that have been pledged to 
        the Commodity Credit Corporation as collateral for loans made by 
        the Corporation;
            ``(2) use other commodities owned by the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation; and
            ``(3) redeem negotiable marketing certificates for cash 
        under terms and conditions established by the Secretary.

    ``(b) Methods of Payment.--The Commodity Credit Corporation may make 
in-kind payments--
            ``(1) by delivery of the commodity at a warehouse or other 
        similar facility;
            ``(2) by the transfer of negotiable warehouse receipts;
            ``(3) by the issuance of negotiable certificates, which the 
        Commodity Credit Corporation shall exchange for a commodity 
        owned or controlled by the Corporation in accordance with 
        regulations promulgated by the Corporation; or
            ``(4) by such other methods as the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation determines appropriate to promote the efficient, 
        equitable, and expeditious receipt of the in-kind payments so 
        that

[[Page 113 STAT. 1182]]

        a person receiving the payments receives the same total return 
        as if the payments had been made in cash.

    ``(c) Administration.--
            ``(1) Form.--At the option of a producer, the Commodity 
        Credit Corporation shall make negotiable certificates authorized 
        under subsection (b)(3) available to the producer, in the form 
        of program payments or by sale, in a manner that the Corporation 
        determines will encourage the orderly marketing of commodities 
        pledged as collateral for loans made to producers under subtitle 
        C.
            ``(2) Transfer.--A negotiable certificate issued in 
        accordance with this subsection may be transferred to another 
        person in accordance with regulations promulgated by the 
        Secretary.''.

SEC. 813. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> LIMITATION ON MARKETING LOAN GAINS 
            AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 1001(2) of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(1)), the total amount of the 
payments specified in section 1001(3) of that Act that a person shall be 
entitled to receive under the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 
U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for one or more contract commodities and oilseeds 
produced during the 1999 crop year may not exceed $150,000.
    (b) 1999 Marketings.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall allow a producer that has marketed a quantity of an eligible 1999 
crop for which the producer has not received a loan deficiency payment 
or marketing loan gain under section 134 or 135 of the Agricultural 
Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7234, 7235) to receive such payment or 
gain as of the date on which the quantity was marketed or redeemed, as 
determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 814. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> ASSISTANCE FOR PURCHASE OF 
            ADDITIONAL CROP INSURANCE COVERAGE.

    The Secretary shall transfer $400,000,000 of funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation to be used 
to assist agricultural producers in purchasing additional coverage for 
the 2000 crop year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 
et seq.).

SEC. 815. <<NOTE: Oklahoma. 7 USC 1421 note.>> FORGIVENESS OF CERTAIN 
            WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL LOANS.

    The Secretary shall forgive the principal indebtedness and accrued 
interest owed by the City of Stroud, Oklahoma, to the Rural Utilities 
Service on water and waste disposal loans numbered 9105 and 9107.

SEC. 816. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT 
            CENTER.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 375(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008j(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(5) Intermediary.--The term `intermediary' means a 
        financial institution receiving Center funds for establishing a 
        revolving fund and relending to an eligible entity.''.

    (b) Revolving Fund.--Section 375(e) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008j(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1183]]

                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Center may use amounts in the 
                Fund to make direct loans, loan guarantees, cooperative 
                agreements, equity interests, investments, repayable 
                grants, and grants to eligible entities, either directly 
                or through an intermediary, in accordance with a 
                strategic plan submitted under subsection (d).'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end the 
                following: ``The Fund is intended to furnish the initial 
                capital for a revolving fund that will eventually be 
                privatized for the purposes of assisting the United 
                States sheep and goat industries.'';
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (D);
                    (D) by striking subparagraph (E) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(E) Administration.--The Center may not use more 
                than 3 percent of the amounts in the portfolio of the 
                Center for each fiscal year for the administration of 
                the Center. The portfolio shall be calculated at the 
                beginning of each fiscal year and shall include a total 
                of--
                          ``(i) all outstanding loan balances;
                          ``(ii) the Fund balance;
                          ``(iii) the outstanding balance to 
                      intermediaries; and
                          ``(iv) the amount the Center paid for all 
                      equity interests.'';
                    (E) in subparagraph (H)--
                          (i) in clause (v), by striking ``or'' at the 
                      end;
                          (ii) in clause (vi), by striking the period at 
                      the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                          (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(vii) purchase equity interests.''; and
                    (F) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (H) 
                as subparagraphs (D) through (G), respectively; and
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking subparagraph (D).

    (c) Board of Directors.--Section 375(f ) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008j(f )) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (B) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(B) review any contract, direct loan, loan 
                guarantee, cooperative agreement, equity interest, 
                investment, repayable grant, and grant to be made or 
                entered into by the Center and any financial assistance 
                provided to the Center;'';
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking subparagraph (C) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Reappointment.--A voting member may be 
                reappointed for not more than one additional term.''; 
                and
            (3) in paragraph (6), by striking subparagraph (B) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Reappointment.--A voting member appointed to 
                fill a vacancy for an unexpired term may be reappointed 
                for one full term.''.

    (d) Privatization.--Section 375 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008j) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1184]]

    ``( j) Privatization.--
            ``(1) In general.--Privatization of a revolving fund for the 
        purposes of assisting the United States sheep and goat 
        industries shall occur on the earlier of--
                    ``(A) September 30, 2006; or
                    ``(B) the date as of which a total of $30,000,000 
                has been appropriated for the Center under subsection 
                (e)(6)(C).
            ``(2) Privatization proposal.--On privatization of a 
        revolving fund in accordance with paragraph (1), the Board shall 
        submit to the Secretary, for approval, a privatization proposal 
        that--
                    ``(A) delineates a private successor entity to the 
                Center; and
                    ``(B) establishes a transition plan.
            ``(3) Private successor entity.--The private successor 
        entity shall--
                    ``(A) have the purposes described in subsection (c);
                    ``(B) be organized under the laws of one of the 
                States; and
                    ``(C) be able to continue the activities of the 
                Center.
            ``(4) Transition plan.--The transition plan shall--
                    ``(A) identify any continuing role of the Federal 
                Government with respect to the Center;
                    ``(B) provide for the transfer of all Center assets 
                and liabilities to the private successor entity; and
                    ``(C) delineate the status of the Board and 
                employees of the Center.
            ``(5) Implementation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--On approval by the Secretary of 
                the private successor entity and the transition plan, 
                the Center shall create the private successor entity and 
                implement the transition plan.
                    ``(B) Authority.--The Secretary shall have all 
                necessary authority to implement the transition plan.
            ``(6) Transfer of funds.--On creation of the private 
        successor entity, all funds held by the Department of the 
        Treasury pursuant to this section shall be transferred to the 
        private successor entity.
            ``(7) Repeal.--On the date the Secretary publishes notice in 
        the Federal Register that the transition plan is complete, this 
        section is repealed.''.

SEC. 817. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> FISHERIES.

    (a) Norton <<NOTE: Alaska.>> Sound Fisheries Failure.--
            (1) Income eligibility.--Section 763(a) of the Agriculture, 
        Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (112 Stat. 2681-36), is 
        amended by striking ``federal poverty level'' and inserting 
        ``income eligibility level established for Alaska under the 
        temporary assistance to needy families (TANF) program funded 
        under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        601 et seq.)''.
            (2) Emergency assistance.--Section 1124 of the Agriculture, 
        Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (112 Stat. 2681-45), is 
        amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``or a fisheries failure in the Norton Sound region

[[Page 113 STAT. 1185]]

        of Alaska that has resulted in the closure of commercial and 
        subsistence fisheries to persons that depend on fish as their 
        primary source of food and income''.
            (3) Appropriation.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to amounts appropriated 
                or otherwise made available by this Act, there is 
                appropriated to the Department of Agriculture for fiscal 
                year 2001, out of any money in the Treasury not 
                otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, to remain available 
                until expended, to provide emergency disaster assistance 
                to persons or entities affected by the 1999 fisheries 
                failure in the Norton Sound region of Alaska.
                    (B) Transfer.--To carry out this paragraph, the 
                Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary of Commerce 
                for obligation and expenditure--
                          (i) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001 for 
                      grants under section 209 of the Public Works and 
                      Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3149); 
                      and
                          (ii) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2001 for 
                      carrying out section 312 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
                      Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
                      1861a).

    (b) Commercial Fisheries Failure.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts appropriated or 
        otherwise made available by this Act, there is appropriated to 
        the Department of Agriculture for fiscal year 2001, out of any 
        money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $15,000,000, 
        to remain available until expended, which shall be transferred 
        to the Department of Commerce to provide emergency disaster 
        assistance for the commercial fishery failure under section 
        308(b)(1) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986 (16 
        U.S.C. 4107(b)(1)) with respect to Northeast multispecies 
        fisheries.
            (2) Use.--Amounts made available under this subsection shall 
        be used to support cooperative research and management 
        activities administered by the National Marine Fisheries 
        Services and based on recommendations by the New England Fishery 
        Management Council.

SEC. 818. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING 
            FAST-TRACK AUTHORITY AND FUTURE WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 
            NEGOTIATIONS.

    It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the President should make a formal request for 
        appropriate fast-track authority for future United States trade 
        negotiations;
            (2) regarding future World Trade Organization negotiations--
                    (A) rules for trade in agricultural commodities 
                should be strengthened and trade-distorting import and 
                export practices should be eliminated or substantially 
                reduced;
                    (B) the rules of the World Trade Organization should 
                be strengthened regarding the practices or policies of a 
                foreign government that unreasonably--
                          (i) restrict market access for products of new 
                      technologies, including products of biotechnology; 
                      or

[[Page 113 STAT. 1186]]

                          (ii) delay or preclude implementation of a 
                      report of a dispute panel of the World Trade 
                      Organization; and
                    (C) negotiations within the World Trade Organization 
                should be structured so as to provide the maximum 
                leverage possible to ensure the successful conclusion of 
                negotiations on agricultural products;
            (3) the President should--
                    (A) conduct a comprehensive evaluation of all 
                existing export and food aid programs, including--
                          (i) the export credit guarantee program 
                      established under section 202 of the Agricultural 
                      Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5622);
                          (ii) the market access program established 
                      under section 203 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 5623);
                          (iii) the export enhancement program 
                      established under section 301 of that Act (7 
                      U.S.C. 5651);
                          (iv) the foreign market development cooperator 
                      program established under section 702 of that Act 
                      (7 U.S.C. 5722); and
                          (v) programs established under the 
                      Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act 
                      of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.); and
                    (B) transmit to Congress--
                          (i) the results of the evaluation under 
                      subparagraph (A); and
                          (ii) recommendations on maximizing the 
                      effectiveness of the programs described in 
                      subparagraph (A); and
            (4) the Secretary should carry out a purchase and donation 
        or concessional sales initiative in each of fiscal years 1999 
        and 2000 to promote the export of additional quantities of 
        soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and products of such commodities 
        (including soybean meal, soybean oil, textured vegetable 
        protein, and soy protein concentrates and isolates) using 
        programs established under--
                    (A) the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 
                U.S.C. 714 et seq.);
                    (B) section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
                U.S.C. 1431);
                    (C) titles I and II of the Agricultural Trade 
                Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1701 et 
                seq.); and
                    (D) the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 
                1736o).

                       Subtitle C--Administration

SEC. 821. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.

    The Secretary shall use the funds, facilities, and authorities of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out this title.

SEC. 822. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

    (a) Reservation of Funds.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the 
Secretary may reserve up to $56,000,000 of the amounts made available 
under subtitle A to cover administrative costs

[[Page 113 STAT. 1187]]

incurred by the Farm Service Agency directly related to carrying out 
that subtitle.
    (b) Proportional Reservation.--The amount reserved by the Secretary 
from the amounts made available under each section of subtitle A (other 
than section 802) shall bear the same proportion to the total amount 
reserved under subsection (a) as the administrative costs incurred by 
the Farm Service Agency to carry out that section (other than section 
802) bear to the total administrative costs incurred by the Farm Service 
Agency to carry out that subtitle (other than section 802).
    (c) Exception for Market Loss Assistance.--The Secretary may not 
reserve any portion of the amount made available under section 802 to 
pay administrative costs.

SEC. 823. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> EMERGENCY REQUIREMENT.

    The entire amount necessary to carry out this title and the 
amendments made by this title shall be available only to the extent that 
an official budget request for the entire amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such 
Act.

SEC. 824. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> REGULATIONS.

    (a) Promulgation.--As soon as practicable after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Commodity Credit 
Corporation, as appropriate, shall promulgate such regulations as are 
necessary to implement subtitle A and the amendments made by subtitle A. 
The promulgation of the regulations and administration of subtitle A 
shall be made without regard to--
            (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to 
        notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
        rulemaking; and
            (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').

    (b) Congressional Review of Agency Rulemaking.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary shall use the authority provided under section 
808 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 825. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1421 note.>> LIVESTOCK AND DAIRY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Livestock Assistance.--Of the funds provided in sections 801 and 
805, no less than $200,000,000 shall be in the form of assistance to 
livestock producers for losses due to drought or other natural 
disasters.
    (b) Dairy Assistance.--Of the funds provided in section 805, no less 
than $125,000,000 shall be in the form of assistance to dairy producers.
    (c) Form of Assistance.--Assistance for livestock losses shall be in 
the form of grants and or other in-kind assistance, but shall not 
include loans.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1188]]

TITLE <<NOTE: Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act of 1999.>> IX--LIVESTOCK 
MANDATORY REPORTING

SEC. 901. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act 
of 1999''.

                Subtitle A--Livestock Mandatory Reporting

SEC. 911. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> LIVESTOCK MANDATORY REPORTING.

    The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting before section 202 (7 U.S.C. 1621) the 
        following:

                   ``Subtitle A--General Provisions'';

        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

               ``Subtitle B--Livestock Mandatory Reporting

                    ``CHAPTER 1--PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS

``SEC. 211. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635.>> PURPOSE.

    ``The purpose of this subtitle is to establish a program of 
information regarding the marketing of cattle, swine, lambs, and 
products of such livestock that--
            ``(1) provides information that can be readily understood by 
        producers, packers, and other market participants, including 
        information with respect to the pricing, contracting for 
        purchase, and supply and demand conditions for livestock, 
        livestock production, and livestock products;
            ``(2) improves the price and supply reporting services of 
        the Department of Agriculture; and
            ``(3) encourages competition in the marketplace for 
        livestock and livestock products.

``SEC. 212. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635a.>> DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subtitle:
            ``(1) Base price.--The term `base price' means the price 
        paid for livestock, delivered at the packing plant, before 
        application of any premiums or discounts, expressed in dollars 
        per hundred pounds of carcass weight.
            ``(2) Basis level.--The term `basis level' means the agreed-
        on adjustment to a future price to establish the final price 
        paid for livestock.
            ``(3) Current slaughter week.--The term `current slaughter 
        week' means the period beginning Monday, and ending Sunday, of 
        the week in which a reporting day occurs.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1189]]

            ``(4) F.O.B.--The term `F.O.B.' means free on board, 
        regardless of the mode of transportation, at the point of direct 
        shipment by the seller to the buyer.
            ``(5) Livestock.--The term `livestock' means cattle, swine, 
        and lambs.
            ``(6) Lot.--The term `lot' means a group of one or more 
        livestock that is identified for the purpose of a single 
        transaction between a buyer and a seller.
            ``(7) Marketing.--The term `marketing' means the sale or 
        other disposition of livestock, livestock products, or meat or 
        meat food products in commerce.
            ``(8) Negotiated purchase.--The term `negotiated purchase' 
        means a cash or spot market purchase by a packer of livestock 
        from a producer under which--
                    ``(A) the base price for the livestock is determined 
                by seller-buyer interaction and agreement on a day; and
                    ``(B) the livestock are scheduled for delivery to 
                the packer not later than 14 days after the date on 
                which the livestock are committed to the packer.
            ``(9) Negotiated sale.--The term `negotiated sale' means a 
        cash or spot market sale by a producer of livestock to a packer 
        under which--
                    ``(A) the base price for the livestock is determined 
                by seller-buyer interaction and agreement on a day; and
                    ``(B) the livestock are scheduled for delivery to 
                the packer not later than 14 days after the date on 
                which the livestock are committed to the packer.
            ``(10) Prior slaughter week.--The term `prior slaughter 
        week' means the Monday through Sunday prior to a reporting day.
            ``(11) Producer.--The term `producer' means any person 
        engaged in the business of selling livestock to a packer for 
        slaughter (including the sale of livestock from a packer to 
        another packer).
            ``(12) Reporting day.--The term `reporting day' means a day 
        on which--
                    ``(A) a packer conducts business regarding livestock 
                committed to the packer, or livestock purchased, sold, 
                or slaughtered by the packer;
                    ``(B) the Secretary is required to make information 
                concerning the business described in subparagraph (A) 
                available to the public; and
                    ``(C) the Department of Agriculture is open to 
                conduct business.
            ``(13) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            ``(14) State.--The term `State' means each of the 50 States.

                      ``CHAPTER 2--CATTLE REPORTING

``SEC. 221. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635d.>> DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this chapter:
            ``(1) Cattle committed.--The term `cattle committed' means 
        cattle that are scheduled to be delivered to a packer within the 
        7-day period beginning on the date of an agreement to sell the 
        cattle.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1190]]

            ``(2) Cattle type.--The term `cattle type' means the 
        following types of cattle purchased for slaughter:
                    ``(A) Fed steers.
                    ``(B) Fed heifers.
                    ``(C) Fed Holsteins and other fed dairy steers and 
                heifers.
                    ``(D) Cows.
                    ``(E) Bulls.
            ``(3) Formula marketing arrangement.--The term `formula 
        marketing arrangement' means the advance commitment of cattle 
        for slaughter by any means other than through a negotiated 
        purchase or a forward contract, using a method for calculating 
        price in which the price is determined at a future date.
            ``(4) Forward contract.--The term `forward contract' means--
                    ``(A) an agreement for the purchase of cattle, 
                executed in advance of slaughter, under which the base 
                price is established by reference to--
                          ``(i) prices quoted on the Chicago Mercantile 
                      Exchange; or
                          ``(ii) other comparable publicly available 
                      prices; or
                    ``(B) such other forward contract as the Secretary 
                determines to be applicable.
            ``(5) Packer.--The term `packer' means any person engaged in 
        the business of buying cattle in commerce for purposes of 
        slaughter, of manufacturing or preparing meats or meat food 
        products from cattle for sale or shipment in commerce, or of 
        marketing meats or meat food products from cattle in an 
        unmanufactured form acting as a wholesale broker, dealer, or 
        distributor in commerce, except that--
                    ``(A) the term includes only a cattle processing 
                plant that is federally inspected;
                    ``(B) for any calendar year, the term includes only 
                a cattle processing plant that slaughtered an average of 
                at least 125,000 head of cattle per year during the 
                immediately preceding 5 calendar years; and
                    ``(C) in the case of a cattle processing plant that 
                did not slaughter cattle during the immediately 
                preceding 5 calendar years, the Secretary shall consider 
                the plant capacity of the processing plant in 
                determining whether the processing plant should be 
                considered a packer under this chapter.
            ``(6) Packer-owned cattle.--The term `packer-owned cattle' 
        means cattle that a packer owns for at least 14 days immediately 
        before slaughter.
            ``(7) Terms of trade.--The term `terms of trade' includes, 
        with respect to the purchase of cattle for slaughter--
                    ``(A) whether a packer provided any financing 
                agreement or arrangement with regard to the cattle;
                    ``(B) whether the delivery terms specified the 
                location of the producer or the location of the packer's 
                plant;
                    ``(C) whether the producer is able to unilaterally 
                specify the date and time during the business day of the 
                packer that the cattle are to be delivered for 
                slaughter; and
                    ``(D) the percentage of cattle purchased by a packer 
                as a negotiated purchase that are delivered to the plant

[[Page 113 STAT. 1191]]

                for slaughter more than 7 days, but fewer than 14 days, 
                after the earlier of--
                          ``(i) the date on which the cattle were 
                      committed to the packer; or
                          ``(ii) the date on which the cattle were 
                      purchased by the packer.
            ``(8) Type of purchase.--The term `type of purchase', with 
        respect to cattle, means--
                    ``(A) a negotiated purchase;
                    ``(B) a formula market arrangement; and
                    ``(C) a forward contract.

``SEC. 222. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635e.>> MANDATORY REPORTING FOR LIVE CATTLE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program of 
live cattle price information reporting that will--
            ``(1) provide timely, accurate, and reliable market 
        information;
            ``(2) facilitate more informed marketing decisions; and
            ``(3) promote competition in the cattle slaughtering 
        industry.

    ``(b) General Reporting Provisions Applicable to Packers and the 
Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--Whenever the prices or quantities of 
        cattle are required to be reported or published under this 
        section, the prices or quantities shall be categorized so as to 
        clearly delineate--
                    ``(A) the prices or quantities, as applicable, of 
                the cattle purchased in the domestic market; and
                    ``(B) the prices or quantities, as applicable, of 
                imported cattle.
            ``(2) Packer-owned cattle.--Information required under this 
        section for packer-owned cattle shall include quantity and 
        carcass characteristics, but not price.

    ``(c) Daily Reporting.--
            ``(1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--The corporate 
        officers or officially designated representatives of each packer 
        processing plant shall report to the Secretary at least twice 
        each reporting day (including once not later than 10:00 a.m. 
        Central Time and once not later than 2:00 p.m. Central Time) the 
        following information for each cattle type:
                    ``(A) The prices for cattle (per hundredweight) 
                established on that day, categorized by--
                          ``(i) type of purchase;
                          ``(ii) the quantity of cattle purchased on a 
                      live weight basis;
                          ``(iii) the quantity of cattle purchased on a 
                      dressed weight basis;
                          ``(iv) a range of the estimated live weights 
                      of the cattle purchased;
                          ``(v) an estimate of the percentage of the 
                      cattle purchased that were of a quality grade of 
                      choice or better; and
                          ``(vi) any premiums or discounts associated 
                      with--
                                    ``(I) weight, grade, or yield; or
                                    ``(II) any type of purchase.
                    ``(B) The quantity of cattle delivered to the packer 
                (quoted in numbers of head) on that day, categorized 
                by--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1192]]

                          ``(i) type of purchase;
                          ``(ii) the quantity of cattle delivered on a 
                      live weight basis; and
                          ``(iii) the quantity of cattle delivered on a 
                      dressed weight basis.
                    ``(C) The quantity of cattle committed to the packer 
                (quoted in numbers of head) as of that day, categorized 
                by--
                          ``(i) type of purchase;
                          ``(ii) the quantity of cattle committed on a 
                      live weight basis; and
                          ``(iii) the quantity of cattle committed on a 
                      dressed weight basis.
                    ``(D) The terms of trade regarding the cattle, as 
                applicable.
            ``(2) Publication.--The <<NOTE: Public 
        information.>> Secretary shall make the information available to 
        the public not less frequently than three times each reporting 
        day.

    ``(d) Weekly Reporting.--
            ``(1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--The corporate 
        officers or officially designated representatives of each packer 
        processing plant shall report to the Secretary, on the first 
        reporting day of each week, not later than 9:00 a.m. Central 
        Time, the following information applicable to the prior 
        slaughter week:
                    ``(A) The quantity of cattle purchased through a 
                forward contract that were slaughtered.
                    ``(B) The quantity of cattle delivered under a 
                formula marketing arrangement that were slaughtered.
                    ``(C) The quantity and carcass characteristics of 
                packer-owned cattle that were slaughtered.
                    ``(D) The quantity, basis level, and delivery month 
                for all cattle purchased through forward contracts that 
                were agreed to by the parties.
                    ``(E) The range and average of intended premiums and 
                discounts that are expected to be in effect for the 
                current slaughter week.
            ``(2) Formula <<NOTE: Deadline.>> purchases.--The corporate 
        officers or officially designated representatives of each packer 
        processing plant shall report to the Secretary, on the first 
        reporting day of each week, not later than 9:00 a.m. Central 
        Time, the following information for cattle purchased through a 
        formula marketing arrangement and slaughtered during the prior 
        slaughter week:
                    ``(A) The quantity (quoted in both numbers of head 
                and hundredweights) of cattle.
                    ``(B) The weighted average price paid for a carcass, 
                including applicable premiums and discounts.
                    ``(C) The range of premiums and discounts paid.
                    ``(D) The weighted average of premiums and discounts 
                paid.
                    ``(E) The range of prices paid.
                    ``(F) The aggregate weighted average price paid for 
                a carcass.
                    ``(G) The terms of trade regarding the cattle, as 
                applicable.
            ``(3) Publication.--The <<NOTE: Public 
        information. Deadline.>> Secretary shall make available to the 
        public the information obtained under paragraphs (1) and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1193]]

        (2) on the first reporting day of the current slaughter week, 
        not later than 10:00 a.m. Central Time.

    ``(e) Regional Reporting of Cattle Types.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall determine whether 
        adequate data can be obtained on a regional basis for fed 
        Holsteins and other fed dairy steers and heifers, cows, and 
        bulls based on the number of packers required to report under 
        this section.
            ``(2) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 2 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this subtitle, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
        Forestry of the Senate a report on the determination of the 
        Secretary under paragraph (1).

``SEC. 223. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635f.>> MANDATORY PACKER REPORTING OF BOXED 
            BEEF SALES.

    ``(a) Daily Reporting.--The corporate officers or officially 
designated representatives of each packer processing plant shall report 
to the Secretary at least twice each reporting day (not less than once 
before, and once after, 12:00 noon Central Time) information on total 
boxed beef sales, including--
            ``(1) the price for each lot of each negotiated boxed beef 
        sale (determined by seller-buyer interaction and agreement), 
        quoted in dollars per hundredweight (on a F.O.B. plant basis);
            ``(2) the quantity for each lot of each sale, quoted by 
        number of boxes sold; and
            ``(3) information regarding the characteristics of each lot 
        of each sale, including--
                    ``(A) the grade of beef (USDA Choice or better, USDA 
                Select, or ungraded no-roll product);
                    ``(B) the cut of beef; and
                    ``(C) the trim specification.

    ``(b) Publication.--The <<NOTE: Public information.>> Secretary 
shall make available to the public the information required to be 
reported under subsection (a) not less frequently than twice each 
reporting day.

                      ``CHAPTER 3--SWINE REPORTING

``SEC. 231. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635i.>> DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this chapter:
            ``(1) Affiliate.--The term `affiliate', with respect to a 
        packer, means--
                    ``(A) a person that directly or indirectly owns, 
                controls, or holds with power to vote, 5 percent or more 
                of the outstanding voting securities of the packer;
                    ``(B) a person 5 percent or more of whose 
                outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly 
                owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by the 
                packer; and
                    ``(C) a person that directly or indirectly controls, 
                or is controlled by or under common control with, the 
                packer.
            ``(2) Applicable reporting period.--The term `applicable 
        reporting period' means the period of time prescribed by the 
        prior day report, the morning report, and the afternoon report, 
        as required under section 232(c).
            ``(3) Barrow.--The term `barrow' means a neutered male 
        swine.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1194]]

            ``(4) Base market hog.--The term `base market hog' means a 
        hog for which no discounts are subtracted from and no premiums 
        are added to the base price.
            ``(5) Bred female swine.--The term `bred female swine' means 
        any female swine, whether a sow or gilt, that has been mated or 
        inseminated and is assumed, or has been confirmed, to be 
        pregnant.
            ``(6) Formula price.--The term `formula price' means a price 
        determined by a mathematical formula under which the price 
        established for a specified market serves as the basis for the 
        formula.
            ``(7) Gilt.--The term `gilt' means a young female swine that 
        has not produced a litter.
            ``(8) Hog class.--The term `hog class' means, as 
        applicable--
                    ``(A) barrows or gilts;
                    ``(B) sows; or
                    ``(C) boars or stags.
            ``(9) Noncarcass merit premium.--The term `noncarcass merit 
        premium' means an increase in the base price of the swine 
        offered by an individual packer or packing plant, based on any 
        factor other than the characteristics of the carcass, if the 
        actual amount of the premium is known before the sale and 
        delivery of the swine.
            ``(10) Other market formula purchase.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `other market formula 
                purchase' means a purchase of swine by a packer in which 
                the pricing mechanism is a formula price based on any 
                market other than the market for swine, pork, or a pork 
                product.
                    ``(B) Inclusion.--The term `other market formula 
                purchase' includes a formula purchase in a case in which 
                the price formula is based on one or more futures or 
                options contracts.
            ``(11) Other purchase arrangement.--The term `other purchase 
        arrangement' means a purchase of swine by a packer that--
                    ``(A) is not a negotiated purchase, swine or pork 
                market formula purchase, or other market formula 
                purchase; and
                    ``(B) does not involve packer-owned swine.
            ``(12) Packer.--The term `packer' means any person engaged 
        in the business of buying swine in commerce for purposes of 
        slaughter, of manufacturing or preparing meats or meat food 
        products from swine for sale or shipment in commerce, or of 
        marketing meats or meat food products from swine in an 
        unmanufactured form acting as a wholesale broker, dealer, or 
        distributor in commerce, except that--
                    ``(A) the term includes only a swine processing 
                plant that is federally inspected;
                    ``(B) for any calendar year, the term includes only 
                a swine processing plant that slaughtered an average of 
                at least 100,000 swine per year during the immediately 
                preceding 5 calendar years; and
                    ``(C) in the case of a swine processing plant that 
                did not slaughter swine during the immediately preceding 
                5 calendar years, the Secretary shall consider the plant 
                capacity of the processing plant in determining whether

[[Page 113 STAT. 1195]]

                the processing plant should be considered a packer under 
                this chapter.
            ``(13) Packer-owned swine.--The term `packer-owned swine' 
        means swine that a packer (including a subsidiary or affiliate 
        of the packer) owns for at least 14 days immediately before 
        slaughter.
            ``(14) Packer-sold swine.--The term `packer-sold swine' 
        means the swine that are--
                    ``(A) owned by a packer (including a subsidiary or 
                affiliate of the packer) for more than 14 days 
                immediately before sale for slaughter; and
                    ``(B) sold for slaughter to another packer.
            ``(15) Pork.--The term `pork' means the meat of a porcine 
        animal.
            ``(16) Pork product.--The term `pork product' means a 
        product or byproduct produced or processed in whole or in part 
        from pork.
            ``(17) Purchase data.--The term `purchase data' means all of 
        the applicable data, including weight (if purchased live), for 
        all swine purchased during the applicable reporting period, 
        regardless of the expected delivery date of the swine, reported 
        by--
                    ``(A) hog class;
                    ``(B) type of purchase; and
                    ``(C) packer-owned swine.
            ``(18) Slaughter data.--The term `slaughter data' means all 
        of the applicable data for all swine slaughtered by a packer 
        during the applicable reporting period, regardless of when the 
        price of the swine was negotiated or otherwise determined, 
        reported by--
                    ``(A) hog class;
                    ``(B) type of purchase; and
                    ``(C) packer-owned swine.
            ``(19) Sow.--The term `sow' means an adult female swine that 
        has produced one or more litters.
            ``(20) Swine.--The term `swine' means a porcine animal 
        raised to be a feeder pig, raised for seedstock, or raised for 
        slaughter.
            ``(21) Swine or pork market formula purchase.--The term 
        `swine or pork market formula purchase' means a purchase of 
        swine by a packer in which the pricing mechanism is a formula 
        price based on a market for swine, pork, or a pork product, 
        other than a future or option for swine, pork, or a pork 
        product.
            ``(22) Type of purchase.--The term `type of purchase', with 
        respect to swine, means--
                    ``(A) a negotiated purchase;
                    ``(B) other market formula purchase;
                    ``(C) a swine or pork market formula purchase; and
                    ``(D) other purchase arrangement.

``SEC. 232. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635j.>> MANDATORY REPORTING FOR SWINE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program of 
swine price information reporting that will--
            ``(1) provide timely, accurate, and reliable market 
        information;
            ``(2) facilitate more informed marketing decisions; and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1196]]

            ``(3) promote competition in the swine slaughtering 
        industry.

    ``(b) General Reporting Provisions Applicable to Packers and the 
Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish and 
        implement a price reporting program in accordance with this 
        section that includes the reporting and publication of 
        information required under this section.
            ``(2) Packer-owned swine.--Information required under this 
        section for packer-owned swine shall include quantity and 
        carcass characteristics, but not price.
            ``(3) Packer-sold swine.--If information regarding the type 
        of purchase is required under this section, the information 
        shall be reported according to the numbers and percentages of 
        each type of purchase comprising--
                    ``(A) packer-sold swine; and
                    ``(B) all other swine.
            ``(4) Additional information.--
                    ``(A) Review.--The Secretary shall review the 
                information required to be reported by packers under 
                this section at least once every 2 years.
                    ``(B) Outdated <<NOTE: Regulations.>> information.--
                After public notice and an opportunity for comment, 
                subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall 
                promulgate regulations that specify additional 
                information that shall be reported under this section if 
                the Secretary determines under the review under 
                subparagraph (A) that--
                          ``(i) information that is currently required 
                      no longer accurately reflects the methods by which 
                      swine are valued and priced by packers; or
                          ``(ii) packers that slaughter a significant 
                      majority of the swine produced in the United 
                      States no longer use backfat or lean percentage 
                      factors as indicators of price.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--Under subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary may not require packers to provide any new or 
                additional information that--
                          ``(i) is not generally available or maintained 
                      by packers; or
                          ``(ii) would be otherwise unduly burdensome to 

                      provide.

    ``(c) Daily Reporting.--
            ``(1) Prior day report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The corporate officers or 
                officially designated representatives of each packer 
                processing plant shall report to the Secretary, for each 
                business day of the packer, such information as the 
                Secretary determines necessary and appropriate to--
                          ``(i) comply with the publication requirements 
                      of this section; and
                          ``(ii) provide for the timely access to the 
                      information by producers, packers, and other 
                      market participants.
                    ``(B) Reporting <<NOTE: Deadline.>> deadline and 
                plants required to report.--Not later than 7:00 a.m. 
                Central Time on each

[[Page 113 STAT. 1197]]

                reporting day, a packer required to report under 
                subparagraph (A) shall report information regarding all 
                swine purchased, priced, or slaughtered during the prior 
                business day of the packer.
                    ``(C) Information required.--The information from 
                the prior business day of a packer required under this 
                paragraph shall include--
                          ``(i) all purchase data, including--
                                    ``(I) the total number of--
                                            ``(aa) swine purchased; and
                                            ``(bb) swine scheduled for 
                                        delivery; and
                                    ``(II) the base price and purchase 
                                data for slaughtered swine for which a 
                                price has been established;
                          ``(ii) all slaughter data for the total number 
                      of swine slaughtered, including--
                                    ``(I) information concerning the net 
                                price, which shall be equal to the total 
                                amount paid by a packer to a producer 
                                (including all premiums, less all 
                                discounts) per hundred pounds of carcass 
                                weight of swine delivered at the plant--
                                            ``(aa) including any sum 
                                        deducted from the price per 
                                        hundredweight paid to a producer 
                                        that reflects the repayment of a 
                                        balance owed by the producer to 
                                        the packer or the accumulation 
                                        of a balance to later be repaid 
                                        by the packer to the producer; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) excluding any sum 
                                        earlier paid to a producer that 
                                        must later be repaid to the 
                                        packer;
                                    ``(II) information concerning the 
                                average net price, which shall be equal 
                                to the quotient (stated per hundred 
                                pounds of carcass weight of swine) 
                                obtained by dividing--
                                            ``(aa) the total amount paid 
                                        for the swine slaughtered at a 
                                        packing plant during the 
                                        applicable reporting period, 
                                        including all premiums and 
                                        discounts, and including any sum 
                                        deducted from the price per 
                                        hundredweight paid to a producer 
                                        that reflects the repayment of a 
                                        balance owed by the producer to 
                                        the packer, or the accumulation 
                                        of a balance to later be repaid 
                                        by the packer to the producer, 
                                        less all discounts; by
                                            ``(bb) the total carcass 
                                        weight (in hundred pound 
                                        increments) of the swine;
                                    ``(III) information concerning the 
                                lowest net price, which shall be equal 
                                to the lowest net price paid for a 
                                single lot or a group of swine 
                                slaughtered at a packing plant during 
                                the applicable reporting period per 
                                hundred pounds of carcass weight of 
                                swine;
                                    ``(IV) information concerning the 
                                highest net price, which shall be equal 
                                to the highest net price paid for a 
                                single lot or group of swine slaughtered 
                                at a packing plant during the applicable 
                                reporting

[[Page 113 STAT. 1198]]

                                period per hundred pounds of carcass 
                                weight of swine;
                                    ``(V) the average carcass weight, 
                                which shall be equal to the quotient 
                                obtained by dividing--
                                            ``(aa) the total carcass 
                                        weight of the swine slaughtered 
                                        at the packing plant during the 
                                        applicable reporting period; by
                                            ``(bb) the number of the 
                                        swine described in item (aa),
                                adjusted for special slaughter 
                                situations (such as skinning or foot 
                                removal), as the Secretary determines 
                                necessary to render comparable carcass 
                                weights;
                                    ``(VI) the average sort loss, which 
                                shall be equal to the average discount 
                                (in dollars per hundred pounds carcass 
                                weight) for swine slaughtered during the 
                                applicable reporting period, resulting 
                                from the fact that the swine did not 
                                fall within the individual packer's 
                                established carcass weight or lot 
                                variation range;
                                    ``(VII) the average backfat, which 
                                shall be equal to the average of the 
                                backfat thickness (in inches) measured 
                                between the third and fourth from the 
                                last ribs, 7 centimeters from the 
                                carcass split (or adjusted from the 
                                individual packer's measurement to that 
                                reference point using an adjustment made 
                                by the Secretary) of the swine 
                                slaughtered during the applicable 
                                reporting period;
                                    ``(VIII) the average lean 
                                percentage, which shall be equal to the 
                                average percentage of the carcass weight 
                                comprised of lean meat for the swine 
                                slaughtered during the applicable 
                                reporting period, except that when a 
                                packer is required to report the average 
                                lean percentage under this subclause, 
                                the packer shall make available to the 
                                Secretary the underlying data, 
                                applicable methodology and formulae, and 
                                supporting materials used to determine 
                                the average lean percentage, which the 
                                Secretary may convert to the carcass 
                                measurements or lean percentage of the 
                                swine of the individual packer to 
                                correlate to a common percent lean 
                                measurement; and
                                    ``(IX) the total slaughter quantity, 
                                which shall be equal to the total number 
                                of swine slaughtered during the 
                                applicable reporting period, including 
                                all types of purchases and packer-owned 
                                swine; and
                          ``(iii) packer purchase commitments, which 
                      shall be equal to the number of swine scheduled 
                      for delivery to a packer for slaughter for each of 
                      the next 14 calendar days.
                    ``(D) Publication.--
                The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall publish the 
                information obtained under this paragraph in a prior day 
                report not later than 8:00 a.m. Central Time on the 
                reporting day on which the information is received from 
                the packer.
            ``(2) Morning report.--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1199]]

                    ``(A) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--The corporate 
                officers or officially designated representatives of 
                each packer processing plant shall report to the 
                Secretary not later than 10:00 a.m. Central Time each 
                reporting day--
                          ``(i) the packer's best estimate of the total 
                      number of swine, and packer-owned swine, expected 
                      to be purchased throughout the reporting day 
                      through each type of purchase;
                          ``(ii) the total number of swine, and packer-
                      owned swine, purchased up to that time of the 
                      reporting day through each type of purchase;
                          ``(iii) the base price paid for all base 
                      market hogs purchased up to that time of the 
                      reporting day through negotiated purchases; and
                          ``(iv) the base price paid for all base market 
                      hogs purchased through each type of purchase other 
                      than negotiated purchase up to that time of the 
                      reporting day, unless such information is 
                      unavailable due to pricing that is determined on a 
                      delayed basis.
                    ``(B) Publication.--
                The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall publish the 
                information obtained under this paragraph in the morning 
                report as soon as practicable, but not later than 11:00 
                a.m. Central Time, on each reporting day.
            ``(3) Afternoon report.--
                    ``(A) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--The corporate 
                officers or officially designated representatives of 
                each packer processing plant shall report to the 
                Secretary not later than 2:00 p.m. Central Time each 
                reporting day--
                          ``(i) the packer's best estimate of the total 
                      number of swine, and packer-owned swine, expected 
                      to be purchased throughout the reporting day 
                      through each type of purchase;
                          ``(ii) the total number of swine, and packer-
                      owned swine, purchased up to that time of the 
                      reporting day through each type of purchase;
                          ``(iii) the base price paid for all base 
                      market hogs purchased up to that time of the 
                      reporting day through negotiated purchases; and
                          ``(iv) the base price paid for all base market 
                      hogs purchased up to that time of the reporting 
                      day through each type of purchase other than 
                      negotiated purchase, unless such information is 
                      unavailable due to pricing that is determined on a 
                      delayed basis.
                    ``(B) Publication.--
                The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall publish the 
                information obtained under this paragraph in the 
                afternoon report as soon as practicable, but not later 
                than 3:00 p.m. Central Time, on each reporting day.

    ``(d) Weekly Noncarcass Merit Premium Report.--
            ``(1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than 4:00 
        p.m. Central Time on the first reporting day of each week, the 
        corporate officers or officially designated representatives of 
        each packer processing plant shall report to the Secretary a 
        noncarcass merit premium report that lists--
                    ``(A) each category of standard noncarcass merit 
                premiums used by the packer in the prior slaughter week; 
                and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1200]]

                    ``(B) the amount (in dollars per hundred pounds of 
                carcass weight) paid to producers by the packer, by 
                category.
            ``(2) Premium list.--A packer shall maintain and make 
        available to a producer, on request, a current listing of the 
        dollar values (per hundred pounds of carcass weight) of each 
        noncarcass merit premium used by the packer during the current 
        or the prior slaughter week.
            ``(3) Availability.--A packer shall not be required to pay a 
        listed noncarcass merit premium to a producer that meets the 
        requirements for the premium if the need for swine in a given 
        category is filled at a particular point in time.
            ``(4) Publication.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall 
        publish the information obtained under this subsection as soon 
        as practicable, but not later than 5:00 p.m. Central Time, on 
        the first reporting day of each week.

                       ``CHAPTER 4--LAMB REPORTING

``SEC. 241. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635m.>> MANDATORY REPORTING FOR LAMBS.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary may establish a program of 
mandatory lamb price information reporting that will--
            ``(1) provide timely, accurate, and reliable market 
        information;
            ``(2) facilitate more informed marketing decisions; and
            ``(3) promote competition in the lamb slaughtering industry.

    ``(b) Notice and Comment.--If the Secretary establishes a mandatory 
price reporting program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
provide an opportunity for comment on proposed regulations to establish 
the program during the 30-day period beginning on the date of the 
publication of the proposed regulations.

                       ``CHAPTER 5--ADMINISTRATION

``SEC. 251. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636.>> GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    ``(a) Confidentiality.--The Secretary shall make available to the 
public information, statistics, and documents obtained from, or 
submitted by, packers, retail entities, and other persons under this 
subtitle in a manner that ensures that confidentiality is preserved 
regarding--
            ``(1) the identity of persons, including parties to a 
        contract; and
            ``(2) proprietary business information.

    ``(b) Disclosure by Federal Government Employees.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), no officer, 
        employee, or agent of the United States shall, without the 
        consent of the packer or other person concerned, divulge or make 
        known in any manner, any facts or information regarding the 
        business of the packer or other person that was acquired through 
        reporting required under this subtitle.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Information obtained by the Secretary 
        under this subtitle may be disclosed--
                    ``(A) to agents or employees of the Department of 
                Agriculture in the course of their official duties under 
                this subtitle;
                    ``(B) as directed by the Secretary or the Attorney 
                General, for enforcement purposes; or

[[Page 113 STAT. 1201]]

                    ``(C) by a court of competent jurisdiction.
            ``(3) Disclosure under freedom of information act.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no facts or 
        information obtained under this subtitle shall be disclosed in 
        accordance with section 552 of title 5, United States Code.

    ``(c) Reporting by Packers.--A packer shall report all information 
required under this subtitle on an individual lot basis.
    ``(d) Regional <<NOTE: Public information.>> Reporting and 
Aggregation.--The Secretary shall make information obtained under this 
subtitle available to the public only in a manner that--
            ``(1) ensures that the information is published on a 
        national and a regional or statewide basis as the Secretary 
        determines to be appropriate;
            ``(2) ensures that the identity of a reporting person is not 
        disclosed; and
            ``(3) conforms to aggregation guidelines established by the 
        Secretary.

    ``(e) Adjustments.--Prior to the publication of any information 
required under this subtitle, the Secretary may make reasonable 
adjustments in information reported by packers to reflect price 
aberrations or other unusual or unique occurrences that the Secretary 
determines would distort the published information to the detriment of 
producers, packers, or other market participants.
    ``(f ) Verification.--The Secretary shall take such actions as the 
Secretary considers necessary to verify the accuracy of the information 
submitted or reported under chapter 2, 3, or 4.
    ``(g) Electronic Reporting and Publishing.--The Secretary shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, provide for the reporting and publishing 
of the information required under this subtitle by electronic means.
    ``(h) Reporting of Activities on Weekends and Holidays.--
            ``(1) In general.--Livestock committed to a packer, or 
        purchased, sold, or slaughtered by a packer, on a weekend day or 
        holiday shall be reported by the packer to the Secretary (to the 
        extent required under this subtitle), and reported by the 
        Secretary, on the immediately following reporting day.
            ``(2) Limitation on reporting by packers.--A packer shall 
        not be required to report actions under paragraph (1) more than 
        once on the immediately following reporting day.

    ``(i) Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this subtitle, the Livestock 
Mandatory Reporting Act of 1999, or amendments made by that Act 
restricts or modifies the authority of the Secretary to--
            ``(1) administer or enforce the Packers and Stockyards Act, 
        1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.);
            ``(2) administer, enforce, or collect voluntary reports 
        under this title or any other law; or
            ``(3) access documentary evidence as provided under sections 
        9 and 10 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 49, 50).

``SEC. 252. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636a.>> UNLAWFUL ACTS.

    ``It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subtitle for any 
packer or other person subject to this subtitle (in the submission of 
information required under chapter 2, 3, or 4, as determined by the 
Secretary) to willfully--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1202]]

            ``(1) fail or refuse to provide, or delay the timely 
        reporting of, accurate information to the Secretary (including 
        estimated information);
            ``(2) solicit or request that a packer, the buyer or seller 
        of livestock or livestock products, or any other person fail to 
        provide, as a condition of any transaction, accurate or timely 
        information required under this subtitle;
            ``(3) fail or refuse to comply with this subtitle; or
            ``(4) report estimated information in any report required 
        under this subtitle in a manner that demonstrates a pattern of 
        significant variance in accuracy when compared to the actual 
        information that is reported for the same reporting period, or 
        as determined by any audit, oversight, or other verification 
        procedures of the Secretary.

``SEC. 253. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636b.>> ENFORCEMENT.

    ``(a) Civil Penalty.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any packer or other person that violates 
        this subtitle may be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary 
        of not more than $10,000 for each violation.
            ``(2) Continuing violation.--Each day during which a 
        violation continues shall be considered to be a separate 
        violation.
            ``(3) Factors.--In determining the amount of a civil penalty 
        to be assessed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider 
        the gravity of the offense, the size of the business involved, 
        and the effect of the penalty on the ability of the person that 
        has committed the violation to continue in business.
            ``(4) Multiple violations.--In determining whether to assess 
        a civil penalty under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        consider whether a packer or other person subject to this 
        subtitle has engaged in a pattern of errors, delays, or 
        omissions in violation of this subtitle.

    ``(b) Cease and Desist.--In addition to, or in lieu of, a civil 
penalty under subsection (a), the Secretary may issue an order to cease 
and desist from continuing any violation.
    ``(c) Notice and Hearing.--No penalty shall be assessed, or cease 
and desist order issued, by the Secretary under this section unless the 
person against which the penalty is assessed or to which the order is 
issued is given notice and opportunity for a hearing before the 
Secretary with respect to the violation.
    ``(d) Finality and Judicial Review.--
            ``(1) In general.--The order of the Secretary assessing a 
        civil penalty or issuing a cease and desist order under this 
        section shall be final and conclusive unless the affected person 
        files an appeal of the order of the Secretary in United States 
        district court not later than 30 days after the date of the 
        issuance of the order.
            ``(2) Standard of review.--A finding of the Secretary under 
        this section shall be set aside only if the finding is found to 
        be unsupported by substantial evidence.

    ``(e) Enforcement.--
            ``(1) In general.--If, after the lapse of the period allowed 
        for appeal or after the affirmance of a penalty assessed under 
        this section, the person against which the civil penalty is 
        assessed fails to pay the penalty, the Secretary may refer

[[Page 113 STAT. 1203]]

        the matter to the Attorney General who may recover the penalty 
        by an action in United States district court.
            ``(2) Finality.--In the action, the final order of the 
        Secretary shall not be subject to review.

    ``(f ) Injunction or Restraining Order.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Secretary has reason to believe 
        that any person subject to this subtitle has failed or refused 
        to provide the Secretary information required to be reported 
        pursuant to this subtitle, and that it would be in the public 
        interest to enjoin the person from further failure to comply 
        with the reporting requirements, the Secretary may notify the 
        Attorney General of the failure.
            ``(2) Attorney general.--The Attorney General may apply to 
        the appropriate district court of the United States for a 
        temporary or permanent injunction or restraining order.
            ``(3) Court.--When needed to carry out this subtitle, the 
        court shall, on a proper showing, issue a temporary injunction 
        or restraining order without bond.

    ``(g) Failure To Obey Orders.--
            ``(1) In general.--If a person subject to this subtitle 
        fails to obey a cease and desist or civil penalty order issued 
        under this subsection after the order has become final and 
        unappealable, or after the appropriate United States district 
        court has entered a final judgment in favor of the Secretary, 
        the United States may apply to the appropriate district court 
        for enforcement of the order.
            ``(2) Enforcement.--If the court determines that the order 
        was lawfully made and duly served and that the person violated 
        the order, the court shall enforce the order.
            ``(3) Civil penalty.--If the court finds that the person 
        violated the cease and desist provisions of the order, the 
        person shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than 
        $10,000 for each offense.

``SEC. 254. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636c.>> FEES.

    ``The Secretary shall not charge or assess a user fee, transaction 
fee, service charge, assessment, reimbursement, or any other fee for the 
submission or reporting of information, for the receipt or availability 
of, or access to, published reports or information, or for any other 
activity required under this subtitle.

``SEC. 255. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636d.>> RECORDKEEPING.

    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), each packer required 
to report information to the Secretary under this subtitle shall 
maintain, and make available to the Secretary on request, for 2 years--
            ``(1) the original contracts, agreements, receipts and other 
        records associated with any transaction relating to the 
        purchase, sale, pricing, transportation, delivery, weighing, 
        slaughter, or carcass characteristics of all livestock; and
            ``(2) such records or other information as is necessary or 
        appropriate to verify the accuracy of the information required 
        to be reported under this subtitle.

    ``(b) Limitations.--Under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary may not 
require a packer to provide new or additional information if--
            ``(1) the information is not generally available or 
        maintained by packers; or

[[Page 113 STAT. 1204]]

            ``(2) the provision of the information would be unduly 
        burdensome.

    ``(c) Purchases of Cattle or Swine.--A record of a purchase of a lot 
of cattle or a lot of swine by a packer shall evidence whether the 
purchase occurred--
            ``(1) before 10:00 a.m. Central Time;
            ``(2) between 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. Central Time; or
            ``(3) after 2:00 p.m. Central Time.

``SEC. 256. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636e.>> VOLUNTARY REPORTING.

    ``The Secretary shall encourage voluntary reporting by packers (as 
defined in section 201 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
191)) to which the mandatory reporting requirements of this subtitle do 
not apply.

``SEC. 257. <<NOTE: Records. 16 USC 1636f.>> PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION 
            ON RETAIL PURCHASE PRICES FOR REPRESENTATIVE MEAT PRODUCTS.

    ``(a) In General.--Beginning <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this subtitle, the 
Secretary shall compile and publish at least monthly (weekly, if 
practicable) information on retail prices for representative food 
products made from beef, pork, chicken, turkey, veal, or lamb.

    ``(b) Information.--The report published by the Secretary under 
subsection (a) shall include--
            ``(1) information on retail prices for each representative 
        food product described in subsection (a); and
            ``(2) information on total sales quantity (in pounds and 
        dollars) for each representative food product.

    ``(c) Meat Price Spreads Report.--During the period ending 2 years 
after the initial publication of the report required under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall continue to publish the Meat Price Spreads 
Report in the same manner as the Report was published before the date of 
the enactment of this subtitle.
    ``(d) Information Collection.--
            ``(1) In general.--To ensure the accuracy of the reports 
        required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall obtain the 
        information for the reports from one or more sources including--
                    ``(A) a consistently representative set of retail 
                transactions; and
                    ``(B) both prices and sales quantities for the 
                transactions.
            ``(2) Source of information.--The Secretary may--
                    ``(A) obtain the information from retailers or 
                commercial information sources; and
                    ``(B) use valid statistical sampling procedures, if 
                necessary.
            ``(3) Adjustments.--In providing information on retail 
        prices under this section, the Secretary may make adjustments to 
        take into account differences in--
                    ``(A) the geographic location of consumption;
                    ``(B) the location of the principal source of 
                supply;
                    ``(C) distribution costs; and
                    ``(D) such other factors as the Secretary determines 
                reflect a verifiable comparative retail price for a 
                representative food product.

    ``(e) Administration.--The Secretary--

[[Page 113 STAT. 1205]]

            ``(1) shall collect information under this section only on a 
        voluntary basis; and
            ``(2) shall not impose a penalty on a person for failure to 
        provide the information or otherwise compel a person to provide 
        the information.

``SEC. 258. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636g.>> SUSPENSION AUTHORITY REGARDING 
            SPECIFIC TERMS OF PRICE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may suspend any requirement of this 
subtitle if the Secretary determines that application of the requirement 
is inconsistent with the purposes of this subtitle.
    ``(b) Suspension Procedure.--
            ``(1) Period.--A suspension under subsection (a) shall be 
        for a period of not more than 240 days.
            ``(2) Action by congress.--If an Act of Congress concerning 
        the requirement that is the subject of the suspension under 
        subsection (a) is not enacted by the end of the period of the 
        suspension established under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        implement the requirement.

``SEC. 259. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1636h.>> FEDERAL PREEMPTION.

    ``In order to achieve the goals, purposes, and objectives of this 
title on a nationwide basis and to avoid potentially conflicting State 
laws that could impede the goals, purposes, or objectives of this title, 
no State or political subdivision of a State may impose a requirement 
that is in addition to, or inconsistent with, any requirement of this 
subtitle with respect to the submission or reporting of information, or 
the publication of such information, on the prices and quantities of 
livestock or livestock products.''.

SEC. 912. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> UNJUST DISQUALIFICATION.

    Section 202(b) of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
192(b)), is amended by striking ``whatsoever'' each place it appears.

SEC. 913. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Section 416 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 
229a), is repealed.
    (b) Section 1127 of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (7 
U.S.C. 1421 note; Public Law 105-277), is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Export Market Reporting.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) implement a streamlined electronic system for 
        collecting export sales and shipments data, in the least 
        intrusive manner possible, for fresh or frozen muscle cuts of 
        meat food products; and
            ``(2) develop a data-reporting program to disseminate 
        summary information in a timely manner (in the case of beef, 
        consistent with the reporting under section 602(a) of the 
        Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5712(a))).''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``this section of the 
        Act'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1206]]

              Subtitle B--Related Beef Reporting Provisions

SEC. 921. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> BEEF EXPORT REPORTING.

    Section 602(a)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5712(a)(1)) is amended by inserting ``, beef,'' after ``cotton''.

SEC. 922. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> EXPORT CERTIFICATES FOR MEAT AND 
            MEAT FOOD PRODUCTS.

    Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall fully 
implement a program, through the use of a streamlined electronic online 
system, to issue and report export certificates for all meat and meat 
products.

SEC. 923. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> IMPORTS OF BEEF, BEEF VARIETY 
            MEATS, AND CATTLE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
            (1) obtain information regarding the import of beef and beef 
        variety meats (consistent with the information categories 
        reported for beef exports under section 602(a) of the 
        Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5712(a))) and cattle 
        using available information sources; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Publication.>> publish the information in a 
        timely manner weekly and in a form that maximizes the utility of 
        the information to beef producers, packers, and other market 
        participants.

    (b) Content.--The published information shall include information 
reporting the year-to-date cumulative annual imports of beef, beef 
variety meats, and cattle for the current and prior marketing years.

SEC. 924. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out sections 922 and 923.

             Subtitle C--Related Swine Reporting Provisions

SEC. 931. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note. Publication.>> IMPROVEMENT OF HOGS 
            AND PIGS INVENTORY REPORT.

    (a) In <<NOTE: Effective date.>> General.--Effective beginning not 
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall publish on a monthly basis the Hogs and 
Pigs Inventory Report.

    (b) Gestating Sows.--The Secretary shall include in a separate 
category of the Report the number of bred female swine that are assumed, 
or have been confirmed, to be pregnant during the reporting period.
    (c) Phase-Out.--Effective for a period of eight quarters after the 
implementation of the monthly report required under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall continue to maintain and publish on a quarterly basis 
the Hogs and Pigs Inventory Report published on or before the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 932. <<NOTE: Records. 7 USC 1635 note.>> BARROW AND GILT SLAUGHTER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall promptly obtain 
and maintain, through an appropriate collection system or valid sampling 
system at packing plants, information on the total

[[Page 113 STAT. 1207]]

slaughter of swine that reflects differences in numbers between barrows 
and gilts, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Availability.--The <<NOTE: Publication.>> information shall be 
made available to swine producers, packers, and other market 
participants in a report published by the Secretary not less frequently 
than weekly.

    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        collection and compilation of information, and the publication 
        of the report, required by this section.
            (2) Nondelegation.--The Secretary shall not delegate the 
        collection, compilation, or administration of the information 
        required by this section to any packer (as defined in section 
        201 of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 191)).

SEC. 933. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> AVERAGE TRIM LOSS CORRELATION STUDY 
            AND REPORT.

    (a) In <<NOTE: Contracts.>> General.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall contract with a qualified contractor to conduct a correlation 
study and prepare a report establishing a baseline and standards for 
determining and improving average trim loss measurements and processing 
techniques for pork processors to employ in the slaughter of swine.

    (b) Correlation Study and Report.--The study and report shall--
            (1) analyze processing techniques that would assist the pork 
        processing industry in improving procedures for uniformity and 
        transparency in how trim loss is discounted (in dollars per 
        hundred pounds carcass weight) by different packers and 
        processors;
            (2) analyze slaughter inspection procedures that could be 
        improved so that trimming procedures and policies of the 
        Secretary are uniform to the maximum extent determined 
        practicable by the Secretary;
            (3) determine how the Secretary may be able to foster 
        improved breeding techniques and animal handling and 
        transportation procedures through training programs made 
        available to swine producers so as to minimize trim loss in 
        slaughter processing; and
            (4) make recommendations that are designed to effect changes 
        in the pork industry so as to achieve continuous improvement in 
        average trim losses and discounts.

    (c) Subsequent Reports on Status of Improvements and Updates in 
Baseline.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years after the initial 
publication of the report required under this section, the Secretary 
shall make subsequent periodic reports that--
            (1) examine the status of the improvement in reducing trim 
        loss discounts in the pork processing industry; and
            (2) update the baseline to reflect changes in trim loss 
        discounts.

    (d) Submission of Reports to Congress, Producers, Packers, and 
Others.--The reports required under this section shall be made available 
to--
            (1) <<NOTE: Public information.>> the public on the 
        Internet;
            (2) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (3) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
        the Senate;
            (4) producers and packers; and
            (5) other market participants.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1208]]

SEC. 934. SWINE PACKER MARKETING CONTRACTS.

    Title II of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 191 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting before section 201 (7 U.S.C. 191) the 
        following:

                   ``Subtitle A--General Provisions'';

        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

             ``Subtitle B--Swine Packer Marketing Contracts

``SEC. 221. <<NOTE: 7 USC 198.>> DEFINITIONS.

    ``Except as provided in section 223(a), in this subtitle:
            ``(1) Market.--The term `market' means the sale or 
        disposition of swine, pork, or pork products in commerce.
            ``(2) Packer.--The term `packer' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 231 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946.
            ``(3) Pork.--The term `pork' means the meat of a porcine 
        animal.
            ``(4) Pork product.--The term `pork product' means a product 
        or byproduct produced or processed in whole or in part from 
        pork.
            ``(5) State.--The term `State' means each of the 50 States.
            ``(6) Swine.--The term `swine' means a porcine animal raised 
        to be a feeder pig, raised for seedstock, or raised for 
        slaughter.
            ``(7) Type of contract.--The term `type of contract' means 
        the classification of contracts or risk management agreements 
        for the purchase of swine by--
                    ``(A) the mechanism used to determine the base price 
                for swine committed to a packer, grouped into 
                practicable classifications by the Secretary (including 
                swine or pork market formula purchases, other market 
                formula purchases, and other purchase arrangements); and
                    ``(B) the presence or absence of an accrual account 
                or ledger that must be repaid by the producer or packer 
                that receives the benefit of the contract pricing 
                mechanism in relation to negotiated prices.
            ``(8) Other terms.--Except as provided in this subtitle, a 
        term has the meaning given the term in section 212 or 231 of the 
        Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946.

``SEC. 222. <<NOTE: 7 USC 198a.>> SWINE PACKER MARKETING CONTRACTS 
            OFFERED TO PRODUCERS.

    ``(a) In <<NOTE: Records.>> General.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations to carry out this section, the Secretary shall establish 
and maintain a library or catalog of each type of contract offered by 
packers to swine producers for the purchase of all or part of the 
producers' production of swine (including swine that are purchased or 
committed for delivery), including all available noncarcass merit 
premiums.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1209]]

    ``(b) Availability.--The Secretary shall make available to swine 
producers and other interested persons information on the types of 
contracts described in subsection (a), including notice (on a real-time 
basis if practicable) of the types of contracts that are being offered 
by each individual packer to, and are open to acceptance by, producers 
for the purchase of swine.
    ``(c) Confidentiality.--The reporting requirements under subsections 
(a) and (b) shall be subject to the confidentiality protections provided 
under section 251 of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946.
    ``(d) Information Collection.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) obtain (by a filing or other procedure 
                required of each individual packer) information 
                indicating what types of contracts for the purchase of 
                swine are available from each packer; and
                    ``(B) make the information available in a monthly 
                report to swine producers and other interested persons.
            ``(2) Contracted <<NOTE: Publication.>> swine numbers.--Each 
        packer shall provide, and the Secretary shall collect and 
        publish in the monthly report required under paragraph (1)(B), 
        information specifying--
                    ``(A) the types of existing contracts for each 
                packer;
                    ``(B) the provisions contained in each contract that 
                provide for expansion in the numbers of swine to be 
                delivered under the contract for the following 6-month 
                and 12-month periods;
                    ``(C) an estimate of the total number of swine 
                committed by contract for delivery to all packers within 
                the 6-month and 12-month periods following the date of 
                the report, reported by reporting region and by type of 
                contract; and
                    ``(D) an estimate of the maximum total number of 
                swine that potentially could be delivered within the 6-
                month and 12-month periods following the date of the 
                report under the provisions described in subparagraph 
                (B) that are included in existing contracts, reported by 
                reporting region and by type of contract.

    ``(e) Violations.--It shall be unlawful and a violation of this 
title for any packer to willfully fail or refuse to provide to the 
Secretary accurate information required under, or to willfully fail or 
refuse to comply with any requirement of, this section.
    ``(f ) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out this section.

``SEC. 223. <<NOTE: 7 USC 198b.>> REPORT ON THE SECRETARY'S 
            JURISDICTION, POWER, DUTIES, AND AUTHORITIES.

    ``(a) Definition of Packer.--In this section, the term `packer' has 
the meaning given the term in section 201 of the Packers and Stockyards 
Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 191).
    ``(b) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this subtitle, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall provide to the Committee on Agriculture of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry of the Senate a report describing the jurisdiction, powers, 
duties, and authorities of the Secretary that relate to packers and 
other persons involved in procuring, slaughtering, or

[[Page 113 STAT. 1210]]

processing swine, pork, or pork products that are covered by this Act 
and other laws, including--
            ``(1) the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et 
        seq.), especially sections 6, 8, 9, and 10 of that Act (15 
        U.S.C. 46, 48, 49, and 50); and
            ``(2) the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621 
        et seq.).

    ``(c) Contents.--The Comptroller General shall include in the report 
an analysis of--
            ``(1) burdens on and obstructions to commerce in swine, 
        pork, and pork products by packers, and other persons that enter 
        into arrangements with the packers, that are contrary to, or do 
        not protect, the public interest;
            ``(2) noncompetitive pricing arrangements between or among 
        packers, or other persons involved in the processing, 
        distribution, or sale of pork and pork products, including 
        arrangements provided for in contracts for the purchase of 
        swine;
            ``(3) the effective monitoring of contracts entered into 
        between packers and swine producers;
            ``(4) investigations that relate to, and affect, the 
        disclosure of--
                    ``(A) transactions involved in the business conduct 
                and practices of packers; and
                    ``(B) the pricing of swine paid to producers by 
                packers and the pricing of products in the pork and pork 
                product merchandising chain;
            ``(5) the adequacy of the authority of the Secretary to 
        prevent a packer from unjustly or arbitrarily refusing to offer 
        a producer, or disqualifying a producer from eligibility for, a 
        particular contract or type of contract for the purchase of 
        swine; and
            ``(6) the ability of the Secretary to cooperate with and 
        enhance the enforcement of actions initiated by other Federal 
        departments and agencies, or Federal independent agencies, to 
        protect trade and commerce in the pork and pork product 
        industries against unlawful restraints and monopolies.''.

SEC. 935. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle.

                       Subtitle D--Implementation

SEC. 941. <<NOTE: Deadline. Publication. 7 USC 1635 note.>> REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall publish final 
regulations to implement this title and the amendments made by this 
title.
    (b) Publication of Proposed Regulations.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish 
proposed regulations to implement this title and the amendments made by 
this title.
    (c) Comment Period.--The Secretary shall provide an opportunity for 
comment on the proposed regulations during the 30-

[[Page 113 STAT. 1211]]

day period beginning on the date of the publication of the proposed 
regulations.
    (d) Final Regulations.--Not later than 60 days after the conclusion 
of the comment period, the Secretary shall publish the final regulations 
and implement this title and the amendments made by this title.

SEC. 942. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1635 note.>> TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.

    The authority provided by this title and the amendments made by this 
title terminate 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000''.

    Approved October 22, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1906 (S. 1233):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-157 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-354 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-80 accompanying S. 1233 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            May 25, 26, June 8, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 4, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of S. 
                1233.
            Oct. 1, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 7, 12, 13, Senate considered and agreed to conference 
                report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Oct. 22, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>