[106th Congress Public Law 246]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ246.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 511]]

Public Law 106-246
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
   base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
          fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: July 13, 2000 -  [H.R. 4425]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2001.>> A--
FISCAL YEAR 2001 MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS

    That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated for military construction, family 
housing, and base realignment and closure functions administered by the 
Department of Defense, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, 
and for other purposes, namely:

                       Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction 
and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander 
in Chief, $909,245,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $109,306,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
and host nation support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of 
Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal 
services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, $928,273,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2005: Provided, That of this 
amount, not to exceed $73,335,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense

[[Page 114 STAT. 512]]

determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
of his determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, 
$870,208,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005: Provided, 
That of this amount, not to exceed $74,628,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Defense-wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real 
property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other 
than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$814,647,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005: Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as he may designate, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $77,505,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $281,717,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2005.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $203,829,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2005.

[[Page 114 STAT. 513]]

                   Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, 
and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $108,738,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2005.

                  Military Construction, Naval Reserve

                         (including rescissions)

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $64,473,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2005: Provided further, That the funds appropriated for ``Military 
Construction, Naval Reserve'' under Public Law 105-45, $2,400,000 is 
hereby rescinded.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $36,591,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2005.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                       Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized in 
Military Construction Authorization Acts and section 2806 of title 10, 
United States Code, $172,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$235,956,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $951,793,000; in all 
$1,187,749,000.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition,

[[Page 114 STAT. 514]]

expansion, extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, 
including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and 
interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as 
follows: for Construction, $418,155,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2005; for Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, 
$881,567,000; in all $1,299,722,000.

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$251,982,000, to remain available until September 30, 2005; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $820,879,000; in all 
$1,072,861,000.

                      Family Housing, Defense-wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration, and for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
and minor construction, as authorized by law, for Operation and 
Maintenance, $44,886,000.

              Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 
established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $1,024,369,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $865,318,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-
fixed-fee contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
$25,000, to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, 
without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense 
setting forth the reasons therefor.
    Sec. 102. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of 
access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to the 
national defense by the Secretary of Defense.

[[Page 114 STAT. 515]]

    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
begin construction of new bases inside the continental United States for 
which specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105. No part of the funds provided in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used for purchase of land or land easements 
in excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army Corps of 
Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where 
there is a determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases 
negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee; (3) where the 
estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise determined by 
the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for 
site preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
except housing for which funds have been made available in annual 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for minor construction may be used to transfer or 
relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used for the procurement of steel for any 
construction project or activity for which American steel producers, 
fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to 
compete for such steel procurement.
    Sec. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be obligated for architect and engineer 
contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to 
be accomplished in Japan, in any NATO member country, or in countries 
bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded to United 
States firms or United States firms in joint venture with host nation 
firms.
    Sec. 112. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for military construction in the United States 
territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract 
estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign 
contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be applicable to 
contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible 
bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent: Provided 
further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards for 
military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive 
and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese contractor.

[[Page 114 STAT. 516]]

    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Secretary of Defense is to 
inform the appropriate committees of Congress, including the Committees 
on Appropriations, of the plans and scope of any proposed military 
exercise involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its 
occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either temporary or 
permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.

    Sec. 114. Not more than 20 percent of the appropriations in Military 
Construction Appropriations Acts which are limited for obligation during 
the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of 
the fiscal year.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 115. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 116. For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any funds appropriated to a military department or 
defense agency for the construction of military projects may be 
obligated for a military construction project or contract, or for any 
portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the end of the 
fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for such 
project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project: (1) 
are obligated from funds available for military construction projects; 
and (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any 
amount by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> During the 5-year period after 
appropriations available to the Department of Defense for military 
construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have expired for obligation, upon a determination that such 
appropriations will not be necessary for the liquidation of obligations 
or for making authorized adjustments to such appropriations for 
obligations incurred during the period of availability of such 
appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may be 
transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense'' to be merged with and to be available for the 
same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred.

    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> The Secretary of Defense is 
to provide the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives with an annual report by February 15, containing 
details of the specific actions proposed to be taken by the Department 
of Defense during the current fiscal year to encourage other member 
nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Japan, Korea, and 
United States allies bordering the Arabian Gulf to assume a greater 
share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United 
States.

[[Page 114 STAT. 517]]

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, proceeds 
deposited to the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established 
by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base 
Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526) pursuant to section 
207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may be transferred to the account established 
by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1991, to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as that account.
    Sec. 121. (a) No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    (b) No funds made available under this Act shall be made available 
to any person or entity who has been convicted of violating the Act of 
March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American 
Act'').
    Sec. 122. (a) In the case of any equipment or products that may be 
authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided under this 
Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities receiving such 
assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-
made equipment and products.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance under this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to each recipient of 
the assistance a notice describing the statement made in subsection (a) 
by the Congress.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 123. Subject to 30 days prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations, such additional amounts as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to the Department of Defense 
Family Housing Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for 
construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, to be merged with and to be 
available for the same purposes and for the same period of time as 
amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, That appropriations 
made available to the Fund shall be available to cover the costs, as 
defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the Department of Defense 
pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169, title 10, 
United States Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and 
improving military family housing and supporting facilities.
    Sec. 124. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act may be obligated for Partnership for Peace Programs in the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union.
    Sec. 125. <<NOTE: Deadline. Notice.>> (a) Not later than 60 days 
before issuing any solicitation for a contract with the private sector 
for military family housing the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
notice described in subsection (b).

    (b)(1) A notice referred to in subsection (a) is a notice of any 
guarantee (including the making of mortgage or rental payments)

[[Page 114 STAT. 518]]

proposed to be made by the Secretary to the private party under the 
contract involved in the event of--
            (A) the closure or realignment of the installation for which 
        housing is provided under the contract;
            (B) a reduction in force of units stationed at such 
        installation; or
            (C) the extended deployment overseas of units stationed at 
        such installation.

    (2) Each notice under this subsection shall specify the nature of 
the guarantee involved and assess the extent and likelihood, if any, of 
the liability of the Federal Government with respect to the guarantee.
    (c) In this section, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
means the following:
            (1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate.
            (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 126. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, amounts may 
be transferred from the account established by section 2906(a)(1) of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1991, to the fund established 
by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program. Any amounts transferred shall be 
merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2821 note.>> Notwithstanding this or any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for operations and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of all 
family housing units, including flag and general officer quarters: 
Provided, That not more than $25,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days advance prior notification of the appropriate committees 
of Congress: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually to the 
Committees on Appropriations all operations and maintenance expenditures 
for each individual flag and general officer quarters for the prior 
fiscal year.

    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air 
Force are directed to submit to the appropriate committees of the 
Congress by July 1, 2001, a Family Housing Master Plan demonstrating how 
they plan to meet the year 2010 housing goals with traditional 
construction, operation and maintenance support, as well as 
privatization initiative proposals. Each plan shall include projected 
life cycle costs for family housing construction, basic allowance for 
housing, operation and maintenance, other associated costs, and a time 
line for housing completions each year.

[[Page 114 STAT. 519]]

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 129. Of the funds provided in previous Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts, $100,000,000 is hereby rescinded as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 130. During fiscal year 2001, in addition to any other transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense, funds appropriated in 
the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-52; 
113 Stat. 259) under the heading ``Military Construction, Naval 
Reserve'' and still unobligated may be transferred to the account for 
``Military Construction, Navy''. Amounts transferred under this section 
shall be merged with, and be available for the same period as, the 
amounts in the account to which transferred and shall be available to 
construct, under the authority of section 2805 of title 10, United 
States Code, an elevated water storage tank at the Naval Support 
Activity Midsouth, Millington, Tennessee.
    Sec. 131. (a) The Secretary of the Army may accept funds from the 
Federal Highway Administration, or the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and 
credit them to the appropriate Department of the Army accounts for the 
purpose of funding all costs associated with the realignment, requested 
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, of the military construction project 
involving a rail connector located at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, 
authorized in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2763).
    (b) The Secretary may use the funds accepted for the realignment, in 
addition to funds authorized and appropriated for the rail connector 
project, notwithstanding the amount authorized in section 2101(a) of 
Public Law 104-201. The funds accepted shall remain available until 
expended.
    (c) The costs associated with the realignment of the rail connector 
project include but are not limited to redesign costs, additional 
construction costs, additional costs due to construction delays related 
to the realignment, and additional real estate costs.
    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The authority provided in this section 
shall be effective upon the date of the enactment of this Act.

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 132. Of the funds available to the Secretary of Defense in the 
``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'' account, 
$83,000,000 is hereby rescinded.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 133. Section 131 of the Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 1988 (Public Law 100-202), <<NOTE: 101 Stat. 1329-319.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c)(1), and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall use amounts paid to the Secretary under 
subsection (b) for the acquisition of suitable sites for military family 
housing; or, the acquisition, construction, or revitalization of 
military family housing in the San Diego region, either through 
conventional military construction or through use of any of the 
alternative authorities contained in subchapter IV, chapter 169 of title 
10, United States Code.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 520]]

            (2) by adding after subsection (c)(2) the following new 
        subparagraph:

    ``(3) Any funds received by the Secretary under subsection (b) and 
not deposited into the general fund of the Treasury under subsection 
(c)(2) may be transferred into the Department of Defense Family Housing 
Improvement Fund in accordance with section 2883 in subchapter IV, 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code.''.
    Sec. 134. Section 412(c) of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge 
Authority Act of 1995 (112 Stat. 160) is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end of the sentence the following: ``, and up to 
$170,000,000 for dredging and foundation activities for construction'': 
Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>> That this section becomes effective 
immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 135. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Navy is authorized to use funds received pursuant to section 2601 
of title 10, United States Code, for the construction, improvement, 
repair, and maintenance of the historic residences located at Marine 
Corps Barracks, 8th and I Streets, Washington, D.C.: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the Secretary notifies the 
appropriate committees of Congress 30 days in advance of the intended 
use of such funds: <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Provided further, That 
this section becomes effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

         brooks air force base development demonstration project

    Sec. 136. (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to evaluate 
and demonstrate methods for more efficient operation of military 
installations through improved capital asset management and greater 
reliance on the public or private sector for less-costly base support 
services, where available. The section supersedes, and shall be used in 
lieu of the authority provided in, section 8168 of the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79; 113 Stat. 1277).
    (b) Authority.--(1) Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary of the 
Air Force may carry out at Brooks Air Force Base, Texas, a demonstration 
project to be known as the ``Base Efficiency Project'' to improve 
mission effectiveness and reduce the cost of providing quality 
installation support at Brooks Air Force Base.
    (2) The Secretary may carry out the Project in consultation with the 
Community to the extent the Secretary determines such consultation is 
necessary and appropriate.
    (3) The authority provided in this section is in addition to any 
other authority vested in or delegated to the Secretary, and the 
Secretary may exercise any authority or combination of authorities 
provided under this section or elsewhere to carry out the purposes of 
the Project.
    (4) The Secretary may not exercise any authority under this section 
until after the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date the 
Secretary submits to the appropriate committees of the Congress a master 
plan for the development of the Base.
    (c) Efficient Practices.--(1) The Secretary may convert services at 
or for the benefit of the Base from accomplishment by military personnel 
or by Department civilian employees (appropriated fund or non-
appropriated fund), to services performed by contract or provided as 
consideration for the lease, sale, or other conveyance or transfer of 
property.
    (2) Notwithstanding section 2462 of title 10, United States Code, a 
contract for services may be awarded based on ``best value''

[[Page 114 STAT. 521]]

if the Secretary determines that the award will advance the purposes of 
a joint activity conducted under the project and is in the best interest 
of the Department.
    (3) Notwithstanding that such services are generally funded by local 
and State taxes and provided without specific charge to the public at 
large, the Secretary may contract for public services at or for the 
benefit of the Base in exchange for such consideration, if any, the 
Secretary determines to be appropriate.
    (4)(A) The Secretary may conduct joint activities with the 
Community, the State, and any private parties or entities on or for the 
benefit of the Base.
    (B) Payments or reimbursements received from participants for their 
share of direct and indirect costs of joint activities, including the 
costs of providing, operating, and maintaining facilities, shall be in 
an amount and type determined to be adequate and appropriate by the 
Secretary.
    (C) Such payments or reimbursements received by the Department shall 
be deposited into the Project Fund.
    (d) Lease Authority.--(1) The Secretary may lease real or personal 
property located on the Base and not required at other Air Force 
installations to any lessee upon such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary considers appropriate and in the interest of the United 
States, if the Secretary determines that the lease would facilitate the 
purposes of the Project.
    (2) Consideration for a lease under this subsection shall be 
determined in accordance with subsection (g).
    (3) A lease under this subsection--
            (A) may be for such period as the Secretary determines is 
        necessary to accomplish the goals of the Project; and
            (B) may give the lessee the first right to purchase the 
        property at fair market value if the lease is terminated to 
        allow the United States to sell the property under any other 
        provision of law.

    (4)(A) The interest of a lessee of property leased under this 
subsection may be taxed by the State or the Community.
    (B) A lease under this subsection shall provide that, if and to the 
extent that the leased property is later made taxable by State 
governments or local governments under Federal law, the lease shall be 
renegotiated.
    (5) The Department may furnish a lessee with utilities, custodial 
services, and other base operation, maintenance, or support services 
performed by Department civilian or contract employees, in exchange for 
such consideration, payment, or reimbursement as the Secretary 
determines appropriate.
    (6) All amounts received from leases under this subsection shall be 
deposited into the Project Fund.
    (7) A lease under this subsection shall not be subject to the 
following provisions of law:
            (A) Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, other than 
        subsection (b)(1) of that section.
            (B) Section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 
        303b).
            (C) The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
        1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.).

    (e) Property Disposal.--(1) The Secretary may sell or otherwise 
convey or transfer real and personal property located at the Base to the 
Community or to another public or private party during

[[Page 114 STAT. 522]]

the Project, upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
appropriate for purposes of the Project.
    (2) Consideration for a sale or other conveyance or transfer of 
property under this subsection shall be determined in accordance with 
subsection (g).
    (3) The sale or other conveyance or transfer of property under this 
subsection shall not be subject to the following provisions of law:
            (A) Section 2693 of title 10, United States Code.
            (B) The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
        1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.).

    (4) Cash payments received as consideration for the sale or other 
conveyance or transfer of property under this subsection shall be 
deposited into the Project Fund.
    (f ) Leaseback of Property Leased or Disposed.--(1) The Secretary 
may lease, sell, or otherwise convey or transfer real property at the 
Base under subsections (b) and (e), as applicable, which will be 
retained for use by the Department or by another military department or 
other Federal agency, if the lessee, purchaser, or other grantee or 
transferee of the property agrees to enter into a leaseback to the 
Department in connection with the lease, sale, or other conveyance or 
transfer of one or more portions or all of the property leased, sold, or 
otherwise conveyed or transferred, as applicable.
    (2) A leaseback of real property under this subsection shall be an 
operating lease for no more than 20 years unless the Secretary of the 
Air Force determines that a longer term is appropriate.
    (3)(A) Consideration, if any, for real property leased under a 
leaseback entered into under this subsection shall be in such form and 
amount as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (B) The Secretary may use funds in the Project Fund or other funds 
appropriated or otherwise available to the Department for use at the 
Base for payment of any such cash rent.
    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department or 
other military department or other Federal agency using the real 
property leased under a leaseback entered into under this subsection may 
construct and erect facilities on or otherwise improve the leased 
property using funds appropriated or otherwise available to the 
Department or other military department or other Federal agency for such 
purpose.
    (g) Consideration.--(1) The Secretary shall determine the nature, 
value, and adequacy of consideration required or offered in exchange for 
a lease, sale, or other conveyance or transfer of real or personal 
property or for other actions taken under the Project.
    (2) Consideration may be in cash or in-kind or any combination 
thereof. In-kind consideration may include the following:
            (A) Real property.
            (B) Personal property.
            (C) Goods or services, including operation, maintenance, 
        protection, repair, or restoration (including environmental 
        restoration) of any property or facilities (including non-
        appropriated fund facilities).
            (D) Base operating support services.
            (E) Improvement of Department facilities.
            (F) Provision of facilities, including office, storage, or 
        other usable space, for use by the Department on or off the 
        Base.

[[Page 114 STAT. 523]]

            (G) Public services.

    (3) Consideration may not be for less than the fair market value.
    (h) Project Fund.--(1) There is established on the books of the 
Treasury a fund to be known as the ``Base Efficiency Project Fund'' into 
which all cash rents, proceeds, payments, reimbursements, and other 
amounts from leases, sales, or other conveyances or transfers, joint 
activities, and all other actions taken under the Project shall be 
deposited. Subject to paragraph (2), amounts deposited into the Project 
Fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation.
    (2) To the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts, 
amounts in the Project Fund shall be available to the Secretary for use 
at the base only for operation, base operating support services, 
maintenance, repair, or improvement of Department facilities, payment of 
consideration for acquisitions of interests in real property (including 
payment of rentals for leasebacks), and environmental protection or 
restoration. The use of such amounts may be in addition to or in 
combination with other amounts appropriated for these purposes.
    (3) <<NOTE: Procedures.>> Subject to generally prescribed financial 
management regulations, the Secretary shall establish the structure of 
the Project Fund and such administrative policies and procedures as the 
Secretary considers necessary to account for and control deposits into 
and disbursements from the Project Fund effectively.

    (i) Federal Agencies.--(1)(A) Any Federal agency, its contractors, 
or its grantees shall pay rent, in cash or services, for the use of 
facilities or property at the Base, in an amount and type determined to 
be adequate by the Secretary.
    (B) Such rent shall generally be the fair market rental of the 
property provided, but in any case shall be sufficient to compensate the 
Base for the direct and overhead costs incurred by the Base due to the 
presence of the tenant agency on the Base.
    (2) Transfers of real or personal property at the Base to other 
Federal agencies shall be at fair market value consideration. Such 
consideration may be paid in cash, by appropriation transfer, or in 
property, goods, or services.
    (3) Amounts received from other Federal agencies, their contractors, 
or grantees, including any amounts paid by appropriation transfer, shall 
be deposited in the Project Fund.
    ( j) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Reports to Congress.--(1) Section 2662 
of title 10, United States Code, shall apply to transactions at the Base 
during the Project.

    (k) Limitation.--None of the authorities in this section shall 
create any legal rights in any person or entity except rights embodied 
in leases, deeds, or contracts.
    (l) Expiration of Authority.--The authority to enter into a lease, 
deed, permit, license, contract, or other agreement under this section 
shall expire on June 1, 2005.
    (m) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Project'' means the Base Efficiency Project 
        authorized by this section.
            (2) The term ``Base'' means Brooks Air Force Base, Texas.
            (3) The term ``Community'' means the City of San Antonio, 
        Texas.
            (4) The term ``Department'' means the Department of the Air 
        Force.

[[Page 114 STAT. 524]]

            (5) The term ``facility'' means a building, structure, or 
        other improvement to real property (except a military family 
        housing unit as that term is used in subchapter IV of chapter 
        169 of title 10, United States Code).
            (6) The term ``joint activity'' means an activity conducted 
        on or for the benefit of the Base by the Department, jointly 
        with the Community, the State, or any private entity, or any 
        combination thereof.
            (7) The term ``Project Fund'' means the Base Efficiency 
        Project Fund established by subsection (h).
            (8) The term ``public services'' means public services 
        (except public schools, fire protection, and police protection) 
        that are funded by local and State taxes and provided without 
        specific charge to the public at large.
            (9) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Air 
        Force or the Secretary's designee, who shall be a civilian 
        official of the Department appointed by the President with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate.
            (10) The term ``State'' means the State of Texas.

    (n) Effective Date.--This section becomes effective immediately upon 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 137. Of the funds made available in the Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-237) under the heading 
``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'' for planning and design, not 
less than $1,000,000 shall be available for the design of an elementary 
school for the Central Kitsap School District to meet the educational 
needs of military dependents at the Naval Submarine Base, Bangor, 
Washington: Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>> That this section 
becomes effective immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 138. The total amount of appropriated funds that may be 
expended for the military construction project at the Military Academy 
at West Point, New York, to construct and renovate the Cadet Physical 
Development Center shall not exceed $77,500,000, regardless of the 
fiscal year for which the funds were or are appropriated: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>> That this section becomes effective 
immediately upon enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 139. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> (a) Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
construction, security and operation of Forward Operating Locations 
(FOL) in Manta, Ecuador, Aruba, Curacao, and El Salvador.

    (b) The report required by subsection (a) shall address the 
following: (1) a schedule for making each Forward Operating Location 
(FOL) fully operational, including cost estimates, time line of 
contracting and construction with completion dates, a description of the 
potential capabilities for each proposed location and an explanation of 
how the FOL architecture fits into the overall counter-drug strategy; 
(2) a plan that identifies the operating requirements at FOL for the 
United States Coast Guard, United States Customs Service, Drug 
Enforcement Administration, Intelligence community and the Department of 
Defense and how these requirements will be addressed; (3) a security 
plan to ensure that FOL facilities and personnel working at these sites 
are safeguarded from outside threats; and (4) a safety plan to ensure 
operations conducted at FOLs are in accordance with standard operating 
procedures.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 525]]

DIVISION <<NOTE: Emergency Supplemental Act, 2000.>> B--FISCAL YEAR 2000 
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

           TITLE I--KOSOVO AND OTHER NATIONAL SECURITY MATTERS

                                CHAPTER 1

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$23,883,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$20,565,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $37,155,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $38,065,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, $8,000,000 shall be made available only for use in 
federally owned educational facilities located on military installations 
for the purpose of transferring title of such facilities to the local 
educational authorities.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to provide assistance to Vieques, Puerto 
Rico, $40,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003: 
Provided, That such funds shall be in addition to amounts otherwise

[[Page 114 STAT. 526]]

available for such purposes: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That the Secretary of Defense may 
transfer funds to any agency or office of the United States Government 
in order to implement the projects for which funds are provided under 
this heading 30 days after the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget notifies the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations of 
each proposed transfer: Provided further, That each notification 
transmitted to the Committees shall identify the specific amount, 
recipient agency and purpose for which such transfer is proposed: 
Provided further, That appropriations made available under this heading 
may be transferred and obligated for the following purposes: a study of 
the health of Vieques residents; fire-fighting related equipment and 
facilities at Antonio Rivera Rodriguez Airport; construction or 
refurbishment of a commercial ferry pier and terminal and associated 
navigational improvements; establishment and construction of an 
artificial reef; reef conservation, restoration, and management 
activities; payments to registered Vieques commercial fishermen of an 
amount determined by the National Marine Fisheries Service for each day 
they are unable to use existing waters because the Navy is conducting 
training; expansion and improvement of major cross-island roadways and 
bridges; an apprenticeship/training program for young adults; 
preservation and protection of natural resources; an economic 
development office and economic development activities; and conducting a 
referendum among the residents of Vieques regarding further use of the 
island for military training programs: Provided further, That for 
purposes of providing assistance to Vieques, any agency or office of the 
United States Government to which these funds are transferred may 
utilize, in addition to any authorities available in this paragraph, any 
authorities available to that agency or office for carrying out related 
activities, including utilization of such funds for administrative 
expenses: Provided further, That any amounts transferred to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, ``Community development 
block grants'', shall be available only for assistance to Vieques, 
notwithstanding section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1974: Provided further, That the Department of Commerce may make 
direct payments to registered Vieques commercial fishermen: Provided 
further, That the Department of the Navy may provide fire-fighting 
training and funds provided in this paragraph may be used to provide 
fire-fighting related facilities at the Antonio Rivera Rodriguez 
Airport: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
may be transferred to the Army Corps of Engineers to construct or modify 
a commercial ferry pier and terminal and associated navigational 
improvements: Provided further, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That except for 
amounts provided for the health study, fire-fighting related equipment 
and facilities, and certain activities in furtherance of the 
preservation and protection of natural resources, funds provided in this 
paragraph shall not become available until 30 days after the Secretary 
of the Navy has certified to the congressional defense committees that 
the integrity and accessibility of the training range is uninterrupted, 
and trespassing and other intrusions on the range have ceased: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That the Secretary of the Navy shall 
recertify to the congressional defense committees the status of the 
range 90 days after the initial certification, and each 90 days 
thereafter: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency

[[Page 114 STAT. 527]]

requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $2,174,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $2,851,000: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

              Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Overseas Contingency Operations 
Transfer Fund'', $2,050,400,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer the funds provided 
herein only to appropriations for military personnel; operation and 
maintenance, including Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid; 
procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; the Defense 
Health Program; and working capital funds: Provided further, That the 
funds transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for the 
same purposes and for the same time period, as the appropriation to 
which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided in this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That 
upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this 
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such 
amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                               PROCUREMENT

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$73,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2001: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 528]]

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $5,700,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2001, only for continued test activities under the 
Tactical High Energy Laser (THEL) program.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', $3,533,000: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Effective date. Termination date. 37 USC 403 
note.>> (a) Minimum Rates of Basic Allowance for Housing for Members of 
the Uniformed Services.--During the period beginning on January 1, 2000, 
and ending on September 30, 2001 (or such earlier date as the Secretary 
of Defense considers appropriate), a member of the uniformed services 
entitled to a basic allowance for housing for a military housing area in 
the United States shall be paid the allowance at a monthly rate not less 
than the rate in effect on December 31, 1999, in that area for members 
serving in the same pay grade and with the same dependency status as the 
member.

    (b) <<NOTE: 37 USC 403 note.>> Annual Limitation on Allowance.--In 
light of the rates for the basic allowance for housing authorized by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may exceed the limitation on 
the total amount paid during fiscal year 2000 and 2001 for the basic 
allowance for housing in the United States otherwise applicable under 
section 403(b)(3) of title 37, United States Code.

    (c) Sense of the Congress Regarding Military Families on Food 
Stamps.--It is the sense of the Congress that members of the Armed 
Forces and their dependents should not have to rely on the food stamp 
program, and the President and the Congress should take action to ensure 
that the income level of members of the Armed Forces is sufficient so 
that no member meets the income standards of eligibility in effect under 
the food stamp program.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), 
$1,556,200,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
the ``Defense-Wide Working Capital Fund'' and shall remain available 
until expended, for price increases resulting from worldwide increases 
in the price of <<NOTE: Deadline.>> petroleum: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall transfer $1,556,200,000 in excess collections 
from the ``Defense-Wide Working Capital Fund''

[[Page 114 STAT. 529]]

not later than September 30, 2001 to the operation and maintenance; 
research, development, test and evaluation; and working capital funds: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
is in addition to the transfer authority provided to the Department of 
Defense in this Act or any other Act: Provided further, That the entire 
amount made available in this section is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    Sec. 103. In addition to the amounts provided elsewhere in this Act 
or in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 
106-79), $90,000,000 is hereby appropriated for ``Aircraft Procurement, 
Air Force'', only for F-15 aircraft or associated components, systems, 
or subsystems.
    Sec. 104. In addition to the amounts provided elsewhere in this Act 
or in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 
106-79), $163,700,000 is hereby appropriated for ``Procurement of 
Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army'', only for procurement, 
advance procurement, or economic order quantity procurement of Abrams 
M1A2 SEP Upgrades under multiyear contract authority provided under 
section 8008 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That none of the funds under this 
section shall be obligated until the Secretary of the Army certifies to 
the congressional defense committees that these funds will be used to 
upgrade vehicles for an average unit cost (for 307 vehicles) that does 
not exceed $5,900,000.

    Sec. 105. In addition to the amounts provided in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), $615,600,000 is 
hereby appropriated for ``Defense Health Program'', to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2001: Provided, That such funds shall 
be available only for the purposes described and in accordance with 
section 106 of this chapter: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 106. (a) Of the amounts provided in section 105 of this chapter 
for ``Defense Health Program''--
            (1) not to exceed $90,300,000 shall be available for 
        obligations and adjustments to obligations required to cover 
        unanticipated increases in TRICARE contract costs that (but for 
        insufficient funds) would have been properly chargeable to the 
        Defense Health Program account for fiscal year 1998 or fiscal 
        year 1999; and
            (2) not to exceed $525,300,000 shall be available for 
        obligations and adjustments to obligations required to cover 
        unanticipated increases in TRICARE contract costs that are 
        properly chargeable to the Defense Health Program account for 
        fiscal year 2000 or fiscal year 2001.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Secretary of Defense shall notify 
the congressional defense committees before charging an obligation or an 
adjustment to obligations under this section.

    (c) <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> The Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on obligations 
made under this section no later than 30 days after the end of fiscal 
year 2000.

    Sec. 107. In addition to the amounts provided in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79),

[[Page 114 STAT. 530]]

$695,900,000 is hereby appropriated for ``Defense Health Program'', to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2002: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 108. In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act or in the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), $27,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the 
Department of Defense and is available only for the Basic Allowance for 
Housing Program: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.
    Sec. 109. (a) Military Recruiting, Advertising, and Retention 
Programs.--In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense elsewhere in this Act or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), 
there is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2001, and to be available 
only for military personnel (to include full-time manning), recruiting, 
advertising, and retention programs, $357,288,000, as follows:
            For military personnel accounts, $204,226,000, as follows:
                    ``Military Personnel, Army'', $99,900,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Navy'', $23,500,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', $4,000,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', $7,500,000;
                    ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', $32,500,000; and
                    ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', $36,826,000.
            For operation and maintenance accounts, $153,062,000, as 
        follows:
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $38,110,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $29,222,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', 
                $8,100,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
                $29,040,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', 
                $18,890,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve'', 
                $6,700,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve'', 
                $2,000,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve'', 
                $4,000,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
                $12,000,000; and
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', 
                $5,000,000.

    (b) Emergency Designation.--The entire amount made available in this 
section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 110. (a) Depot-Level Maintenance and Repair.--In addition to 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of 
Defense elsewhere in this Act or in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79),

[[Page 114 STAT. 531]]

$220,000,000 is hereby appropriated for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy'', to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2001, 
only for ship depot maintenance.
    (b) Emergency Designation.--The entire amount made available in this 
section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 111. (a) High Priority Support to Deployed Forces.--In addition 
to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available elsewhere in this 
Act for the Department of Defense or in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), there is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense, to support deployed United 
States forces, $503,900,000, as follows:
            (1) For operation and maintenance accounts, to remain 
        available for obligation until September 30, 2001, $96,000,000 
        as follows:
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $20,000,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', 
                $41,900,000;
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 
                $10,000,000; and
                    ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', 
                $24,100,000.
            (2) For procurement accounts, to remain available for 
        obligation until September 30, 2003, $344,900,000, as follows:
                    ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', $25,000,000 (for 
                Apache helicopter safety and reliability modifications);
                    ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', $52,800,000 (of 
                which $27,000,000 is for CH-46 helicopter engine safety 
                procurement and $25,800,000 for EP-3 sensor improvement 
                modifications);
                    ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', $212,700,000 
                (of which $111,600,000 is for U-2 reconnaissance 
                aircraft sensor improvements and modifications, and 
                $101,100,000 is for flight and mission trainers and 
                simulators);
                    ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', $41,400,000; and
                    ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', $13,000,000.
            (3) For research, development, test and evaluation accounts, 
        to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2002, 
        $63,000,000, as follows:
                    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
                Army'', $5,000,000 (for the WARSIMS program); and
                    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
                Defense-Wide'', $58,000,000.

    (b) Emergency Designation.--The entire amount made available in this 
section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 112. <<NOTE: Government organization.>> To ensure the 
availability of biometrics technologies in the Department of Defense, 
the Secretary of the Army shall be the Executive Agent to lead, 
consolidate, and coordinate all biometrics information assurance 
programs of the Department of Defense: Provided, That there is hereby 
appropriated for fiscal year 2000, in addition to other amounts 
appropriated for such fiscal year by other provisions of this Act, 
$5,000,000 for Operation and Maintenance, Army, for carrying out the 
biometrics assurance programs and for continuing the biometrics 
information assurance programs of the Information System Security 
Program: Provided

[[Page 114 STAT. 532]]

further, That there is hereby appropriated for fiscal year 2000, in 
addition to other amounts appropriated for such fiscal year by other 
provisions of this Act, $1,000,000 for Operation and Maintenance, Navy, 
and $1,000,000 for Operation and Maintenance, Air Force, for carrying 
out the biometrics assurance programs with the Army, as Executive Agent, 
to lead, consolidate, and coordinate such programs.

    Sec. 113. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense elsewhere in this Act or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), 
$125,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense to 
remain available until September 30, 2002, to be available only for the 
Patriot missile program: Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>> not later 
than 30 days after the enactment of this Act the Department shall submit 
a revised Patriot missile program plan to the congressional defense 
committees: Provided further, That the entire amount made available in 
this section is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

    Sec. 114. In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act for 
the Department of Defense, $300,000 is hereby appropriated to be 
available only for Operation Walking Shield for technical assistance and 
transportation of excess housing to Indian tribes located in the States 
of North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, and Minnesota, in accordance 
with section 8155 of Public Law 106-79.
    Sec. 115. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense elsewhere in this Act or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79), 
there is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense, for the cost 
of peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance operations in East Timor and 
Mozambique, $61,500,000, to be distributed as follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $6,400,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $8,100,000; and
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $47,000,000:

Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 116. (a) Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, of the funds appropriated by title II of the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79) under 
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $9,642,000 
shall be transferred to the Macalloy Special Account administered by the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to pay for response 
actions by, or on behalf of, the Environmental Protection Agency under 
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) at the Macalloy site in Charleston, 
South Carolina.
    (b) Treatment of Funds.--Any of the funds transferred pursuant to 
subsection (a) that are used to pay for response actions at the Macalloy 
site shall be credited against any liability of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 533]]

United States with respect to the site under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there is 
appropriated to the Department of Defense $8,000,000 for communications, 
communications infrastructure, logistical support, resources and 
operational assistance required by the Salt Lake Organizing Committee to 
stage the 2002 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, such sums to remain 
available until expended.
    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Ballistic Missile Defense 
Organization and its subordinate offices and associated contractors, 
including the Lead Systems Integrator, shall notify the congressional 
defense committees 15 days prior to issuing any type of information or 
proposal solicitation under the NMD Program with a potential annual 
contract value greater than $5,000,000 or a total contract value greater 
than $30,000,000.

    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: Alabama. Bender Shipbuilding and Repair 
Company.>> (a) Requirement for Sale of Navy Drydock No. 9.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Navy 
shall sell Navy Drydock No. 9 (AFDM-3), located in Mobile, Alabama, to 
the Bender Shipbuilding and Repair Company, Inc., which is the current 
lessee of the drydock from the Navy.

    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the sale of the drydock 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall receive an amount equal to the 
fair market value of the drydock at the time of the sale, as determined 
by the Secretary.
    Sec. 120. Subsection (b) of section 509 of title 32, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``Federal'' and inserting ``Department of 
Defense''.
    Sec. 121. Use of Department of Defense Facilities as Polling Places. 
(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Defense shall not prohibit the designation or use of any 
Department of Defense facility, currently designated by a State or local 
election official, or used since January 1, 1996, as an official polling 
place in connection with a local, State, or Federal election, as such 
official polling place.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--The prohibition under 
subsection (a) shall apply to any election occurring on or after the 
date of the enactment of this section and before December 31, 2000.

    Sec. 122. Section 8114 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-262; 112 Stat. 2326), is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding the first proviso, by striking 
        ``$20,000,000'' and inserting ``$30,000,000''; and
            (2) in the second proviso, by inserting after ``property 
        damages'' the following: ``, and for other claims under 
        applicable Status-of-Forces Agreements,''.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 123. Of the funds provided in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act, from the following accounts in the 
specified amounts:
            Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 1989/
        1993'':
                    DDG-51 destroyer program, $9,100,000;
                    T-AO fleet oiler program, $6,645,000;
                    T-AGOS surveillance ship program, $3,420,000;
                    Outfitting and post delivery, $1,293,000;

[[Page 114 STAT. 534]]

                    ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air 
                Force, 1999/2000'', $7,000,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Army, 2000'', $98,700,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Navy, 2000'', $49,127,000;
                    ``Military Personnel, Air Force, 2000'', 
                $82,000,000;
                    ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force, 2000'', $4,500,000; 
                and
                    ``National Guard Personnel, Army, 2000'', 
                $24,826,000.

    Sec. 124. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).
    Sec. 125. The following provisions of law are repealed: sections 
8175 and 8176 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 
(Public Law 106-79), as amended by sections 214 and 215, respectively, 
of H.R. 3425 of the 106th Congress (113 Stat. 1501A-297), as enacted 
into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-113.
    Sec. 126. Any amount appropriated in this chapter that is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, shall not be available for obligation unless all such 
amounts are designated by the President, upon enactment of this Act, as 
emergency requirements pursuant to such section.

                                CHAPTER 2

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                         general investigations

    For an additional amount for ``General Investigations'', $3,500,000, 
to remain available until expended, of which $1,500,000 shall be for a 
feasibility study and report of a project to provide flood damage 
reduction for the town of Princeville, North Carolina, and of which 
$2,000,000 shall be for preconstruction engineering and design of an 
emergency outlet from Devils Lake, North Dakota, to the Sheyenne River: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          construction, general

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, General'', $3,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, for the Johnson Creek, Arlington, 
Texas, project authorized by section 101(b)(14) of Public Law 106-53: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request for $3,000,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further,

[[Page 114 STAT. 535]]

That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                   operation and maintenance, general

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, General'', 
$200,000, to remain available until expended, for dredging of the 
authorized navigation project at Saxon Harbor, Wisconsin: Provided, That 
the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for $200,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'', 
$600,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out the 
provisions of the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System Act of 2000: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request for $600,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                           Weapons Activities

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons activities'', $96,500,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for 
$96,500,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 536]]

                        other defense activities

    For an additional amount for ``Other defense activities'', 
$38,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $38,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
Department is authorized to initiate design of the Highly Enriched 
Uranium Blend Down Project.

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

       Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Uranium enrichment decontamination 
and decommissioning fund'', $58,000,000, to be derived from the Fund, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall 
be available only to the extent an official budget request for 
$58,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 201. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act and hereafter 
may not be used to pay on behalf of the United States or a contractor or 
subcontractor of the United States for posting a bond or fulfilling any 
other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or post-
closure care and monitoring of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant. The 
State of New Mexico or any other entity may not enforce against the 
United States or a contractor or subcontractor of the United States, in 
this or any subsequent fiscal year, a requirement to post bond or any 
other financial responsibility requirement relating to closure or post-
closure care and monitoring of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant. Any 
financial responsibility requirement in a permit or license for the 
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant on the date of the enactment of this section 
may not be enforced against the United States or its contractors or 
subcontractors at the Plant.
    Sec. 202. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
provided in this or any other Act may be used to further reallocate 
Central Arizona Project water or to prepare an Environmental Assessment, 
Environmental Impact Statement, or Record of Decision providing for a 
reallocation of Central Arizona Project water until further Act of 
Congress authorizing and directing the Secretary of the Interior to make 
allocations and enter into contracts for delivery of Central Arizona 
Project water.
    Sec. 203. Of the funds provided in Public Laws 106-60 and 105-245 
and prior Energy and Water Development Appropriations

[[Page 114 STAT. 537]]

Acts for the Department of Energy under the heading ``Science'', 
$1,000,000 shall be made available for the design, planning and 
construction of the interdisciplinary science facility at the University 
of Alabama at Tuscaloosa.
    Sec. 204. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 and prior 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts for the Department of 
Energy under the heading ``Energy Supply'', $1,000,000 shall be made 
available for the Nome diesel upgrade.
    Sec. 205. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 and prior 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts for the Department of 
Energy under the heading ``Weapons Activities'', $5,000,000 shall be 
made available to move the Atlas pulsed power experimental facility to 
the Nevada Test Site.
    Sec. 206. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 and prior 
Energy and Water Development Appropriations Acts for the Department of 
Energy under the heading ``Science'', $2,500,000 shall be made available 
for the Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii.
    Sec. 207. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 for the 
Department of Energy under the heading ``Science'', $1,000,000 shall be 
made available for the Burbank Hospital Regional Center in Fitchburg, 
Massachusetts.
    Sec. 208. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 for the 
Department of Energy under the heading ``Science'', $1,000,000 shall be 
made available for the Center for Research on Aging at Rush-
Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago, Illinois.
    Sec. 209. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 for the 
Department of Energy under the heading ``Science'', $1,000,000 shall be 
made available for the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System.
    Sec. 210. Of the funds provided in Public Law 106-60 for the 
Department of Energy under the heading ``Energy Supply'', $1,000,000 
shall be made available for the Materials Science Center in Tempe, 
Arizona.
    Sec. 211. No funds appropriated to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 may be used to relocate, or to plan or 
prepare for the relocation of, the functions or personnel of the 
Technical Training Center from its location at Chattanooga, Tennessee.

                                CHAPTER 3

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 301. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2000, the 
following amounts are hereby appropriated as authorized by section 2854 
of title 10, United States Code, as follows:
            ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $12,348,000;
            ``Family Housing, Army'', $2,000,000;
            ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps'', $3,000,000; and
            ``Family Housing, Air Force'', $1,700,000:

Provided, That the funds in this section remain available until 
September 30, 2004: Provided further, That the entire amount

[[Page 114 STAT. 538]]

is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $19,048,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 302. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in the Military 
Construction Appropriations Act, 2000, $1,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
to the ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'' account, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That such amount shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
as authorized by law: Provided further, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $1,000,000 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 303. (a) In addition to the amounts provided in Public Law 106-
52, $35,000,000 is appropriated under the heading ``Military 
Construction, Navy'' to remain available until September 30, 2004: 
Provided, That such funds are authorized and shall be available for the 
acquisition of land at Blount Island, Florida.
    (B) Of the funds provided in the Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-32), $35,000,000 is hereby 
rescinded as of the date of the enactment of this Act.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating expenses'', $77,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2001; of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available for military basic pay; $18,000,000 shall be available for 
costs related to the delivery of health care to Coast Guard personnel, 
retirees, and their dependents; $15,000,000 shall be available for basic 
allowance for housing; $2,000,000 shall be available for the military 
housing areas cost of living adjustment; $15,000,000 shall be available 
for recruiting and retention bonuses; $1,000,000 shall be available for 
fixed wing aviator retention bonuses; $8,000,000 shall be available for 
the clean up and repair of shore facilities from hurricane damage; and, 
$13,000,000 shall be available for operational fuel and unit level 
operational readiness: Provided, That the entire amount is

[[Page 114 STAT. 539]]

designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount provided shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $77,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

               acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, construction, and 
improvements'', $578,000,000, to remain available until expended; of 
which $110,000,000 shall be available for the Great Lakes Icebreaker 
replacement; and of which $468,000,000 shall be available for 
acquisition and conversion of six C-130J maritime patrol aircraft, as 
authorized under section 812(b)(1)(G) of the Western Hemisphere Drug 
Elimination Act: Provided, That the procurement of maritime patrol 
aircraft funded under this heading shall not, in any way, influence the 
procurement strategy, program requirements, or down-select decision 
pertaining to the Coast Guard's Deepwater Capability Replacement 
Project: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for 
$578,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 5

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 501. For an additional amount for the Agency for International 
Development, ``International Disaster Assistance'', $25,000,000, for 
rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance for Mozambique, Madagascar, 
and southern Africa, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount provided shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request that includes designation of the entire amount 
as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress.
    Sec. 502. For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Eastern 
Europe and the Baltic States'', $50,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That this amount shall only be available 
for assistance for Montenegro and Croatia, and not to exceed $12,400,000 
for assistance for Kosova: Provided further, That the amount specified 
in the previous proviso for assistance for Kosova may be made available 
only for police activities: Provided further, That funds made available 
in the preceding provisos shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 540]]

be available subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                TITLE II

    NATURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND OTHER SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                         Office of the Secretary

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses to carry out title 
IX of Public Law 106-78, $1,350,000: Provided, That the entire amount 
necessary to carry out this section shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for $1,350,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $77,560,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request for 
$77,560,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949 for section 
515 rental housing to be available from funds in the rural housing 
insurance fund to meet needs resulting from Hurricane Dennis, Floyd, or 
Irene, $40,000,000.
    For the additional cost of direct loans for section 515 rental 
housing, including the cost of modifying loans, as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, to remain available until 
expended, $15,872,000: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 541]]

                        rental assistance program

    For an additional amount for rental assistance agreements entered 
into or renewed pursuant to section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of 1949 
for emergency needs resulting from Hurricane Dennis, Floyd, or Irene, 
$13,600,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2101. With respect to any 1999 crop year loan made by the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to a cooperative marketing association 
established under the laws of North Carolina, and to any person or 
entity in North Carolina obtaining a 1999 crop upland cotton marketing 
assistance loan, the Corporation shall reduce the amount of such 
outstanding loan indebtedness in an amount up to 75 percent of the 
amount of the loan applicable to any collateral (in the case of 
cooperative marketing associations of upland cotton producers and upland 
cotton producers, not to exceed $5,000,000 for benefits to such 
associations and such producers for up to 75 percent of the loss 
incurred by such associations and such producers with respect to upland 
cotton that had been placed under loan) that was produced in a county in 
which either the Secretary of Agriculture or the President of the United 
States declared a major disaster or emergency due to the occurrence of 
Hurricane Dennis, Floyd, or Irene if the Corporation determines that 
such collateral suffered any quality loss as a result of said hurricane: 
Provided, That if a person or entity obtains a benefit under this 
section with respect to a quantity of a commodity, no marketing loan 
gain or loan deficiency payment shall be made available under the 
Federal Agricultural Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 with respect to 
such quantity: Provided further, That no more than $81,000,000 of the 
funds of the Corporation shall be available to carry out this section: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for $81,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.
    Sec. 2102. In lieu of imposing, where applicable, the assessment for 
producers provided for in subsection (d)(8) of 7 U.S.C. 7271 (section 
155 of the Agricultural Market Transition Act), the Secretary shall, as 
necessary to offset remaining loan losses for the 1999 crop of peanuts, 
borrow such amounts as would have been collected under 7 U.S.C. 
7271(d)(8) from the Commodity Credit Corporation. Such borrowing shall 
be against all excess assessments to be collected under 7 U.S.C. 7271(g) 
for crop year 2000 and subsequent years. For purposes of the preceding 
sentence, an assessment shall be considered to be an ``excess'' 
assessment to the extent that it is not used, or will not be used, under 
the provisions of 7 U.S.C. 7271(d), to offset losses on peanuts for the 
crop year

[[Page 114 STAT. 542]]

in which the assessment is collected. The Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall retain in its own account sums collected under 7 U.S.C. 7271(g) as 
needed to recover the borrowing provided for in this section to the 
extent that such collections are not used under 7 U.S.C. 7271(d) to 
cover losses on peanuts: Provided, That the entire amount necessary to 
carry out this section shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request for the entire amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

             Salaries and Expenses, United States Attorneys

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses, United States 
Attorneys'', $12,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be 
divided equally between the States of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and 
California, to reimburse county and municipal governments only for 
Federal costs associated with the handling and processing of illegal 
immigration and drug and alien smuggling cases. The use of these funds 
is limited to: court costs, courtroom technology, the building of 
holding spaces, administrative staff, and indigent defense costs: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That such amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For <<NOTE: 47 USC 1021 note.>> an additional amount for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', $181,000,000, to remain available until expended, which 
shall be deposited in the Telecommunications Carrier Compliance Fund: 
Provided, That, hereafter, in the discretion of the Attorney General, 
any expenditures from the Fund to pay or reimburse pursuant to sections 
104(e) and 109(a) of Public Law 103-414, may be made directly to any 
parties specified in section 401(a) thereof, and may be made either 
pursuant to the regulations promulgated under such section 109, or 
pursuant to firm fixed-price agreements, upon provision of such 
information as the Attorney General may require: Provided further, That 
such amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended,

[[Page 114 STAT. 543]]

is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           justice assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Justice Assistance'' for grants to 
counties with populations of less than 150,000, and Indian reservations, 
in Arizona that are adjacent to the United States-Mexico border, 
$2,000,000: Provided, That such grants shall be allocated in proportion 
to the population of each such county and Indian reservation: Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That such amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development Assistance 
Programs'', $55,800,000, to remain available until expended, for 
planning, public works grants and revolving loan funds for communities 
affected by Hurricane Floyd and other recent hurricanes and disasters: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That such amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

    For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research and 
Facilities'', $30,700,000, to remain available until expended, to 
provide disaster assistance pursuant to section 312(a) of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation Management Act, including compensation to 
fishermen for losses and equipment damage, resulting from Hurricane 
Floyd and other recent hurricanes and fishery disasters in the Long 
Island Sound lobster fishery and the west coast groundfish fishery, and 
for the repair of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
hurricane reconnaissance aircraft: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress

[[Page 114 STAT. 544]]

as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That of such amount, $13,300,000 shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress.

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                        International Commissions

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for the International 
Joint Commission, as authorized by treaties between the United States 
and Canada or Great Britain, $2,150,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                                  Other

       united states commission on international religious freedom

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-292), 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                      Small Business Administration

                     disaster loans program account

    For an additional amount for the cost of direct loans, $15,500,000, 
to remain available until expended to subsidize additional gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans: Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974; and for 
direct administrative expenses to carry out the disaster loan program, 
an additional $25,400,000, to remain

[[Page 114 STAT. 545]]

available until expended, which may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for ``Salaries and Expenses'': Provided further, That no 
funds shall be transferred to and merged with appropriations for 
``Salaries and Expenses'' for indirect administrative expenses: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2201. For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', for emergency expenses for fisheries disaster relief 
pursuant to section 312(a) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation 
and Management Act, as amended, for the Pribilof Island and East 
Aleutian area of the Bering Sea, $10,000,000 to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That in implementing this section, the Secretary of 
Commerce shall make $7,000,000 available for disaster assistance and 
$3,000,000 for Bering Sea ecosystem research including $1,000,000 for 
the State of Alaska to develop a cooperative research plan to restore 
the crab fishery: Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce 
declares a fisheries failure pursuant to section 312(a) of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request for $10,000,000, that includes designation of 
the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2202. For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', $10,000,000 to provide emergency disaster assistance for 
the commercial fishery failure determined under section 308(b)(1) of the 
Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 4107(b)(1)) with 
respect to the Northeast multispecies fishery, which shall be used to 
support a voluntary fishing capacity reduction program in the Northeast 
multispecies fishery that permanently revokes multispecies, limited 
access fishing permits so as to obtain the maximum sustained reduction 
in fishing capacity at the least cost and in the minimum period of time 
and to prevent the replacement of fishing capacity removed by the 
program: Provided, That the entire amount made available in this section 
is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement under section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $10,000,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the

[[Page 114 STAT. 546]]

Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2203. For an additional amount for ``Operations, Research, and 
Facilities'', to remain available until expended, $7,000,000, of which 
$2,000,000 shall be for studies relating to long-line interactions with 
sea turtles in the North Pacific and commercial fishing activities in 
the Northwest Hawaiian Islands, and of which $5,000,000 shall be for 
observer coverage for the Hawaiian long-line fishery: Provided, That the 
entire amount in this section is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an 
official budget request for $7,000,000, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2204. North Pacific Marine Research Institute.--Public Law 101-
380, as amended, is further amended by--
            (1) inserting after section 5007 the following new section:

``SEC. 5008. <<NOTE: Alaska. 33 USC 2738.>> NORTH PACIFIC MARINE 
            RESEARCH INSTITUTE.

    ``(a) Institute Established.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
establish a North Pacific Marine Research Institute (hereafter in this 
section referred to as the `Institute') to be administered at the Alaska 
SeaLife Center by the North Pacific Research Board.
    ``(b) Functions.--The Institute shall--
            ``(1) conduct research and carry out education and 
        demonstration projects on or relating to the North Pacific 
        marine ecosystem with particular emphasis on marine mammal, sea 
        bird, fish, and shellfish populations in the Bering Sea and Gulf 
        of Alaska including populations located in or near Kenai Fjords 
        National Park and the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge; 
        and
            ``(2) lease, maintain, operate, and upgrade the necessary 
        research equipment and related facilities necessary to conduct 
        such research at the Alaska SeaLife Center.

    ``(c) Evaluation and Audit.--The Secretary of Commerce may 
periodically evaluate the activities of the Institute to ensure that 
funds received by the Institute are used in a manner consistent with 
this section. The Comptroller General of the United States, and any of 
his or her duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for 
purposes of audit and examination, to any books, documents, papers, and 
records of the Institute that are pertinent to the funds received and 
expended by the Institute.
    ``(d) Status of Employees.--Employees of the Institute shall not, by 
reason of such employment, be considered to be employees of the Federal 
Government for any purpose.
    ``(e) Use of Funds.--No funds made available to carry out this 
section may be used to initiate litigation, or for the acquisition of 
real property (other than facilities leased at the Alaska SeaLife 
Center). No more than 10 percent of the funds made available to carry 
out subsection (b)(1) may be used to administer the Institute.
    ``(f ) <<NOTE: Publication.>> Availability of Research.--The 
Institute shall publish and make available to any person on request the 
results of all

[[Page 114 STAT. 547]]

research, educational, and demonstration projects conducted by the 
Institute. The Institute shall provide a copy of all research, 
educational, and demonstration projects conducted by the Institute to 
the National Park Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.''; and

    (2) <<NOTE: 33 USC 2736.>> in section 5006 by inserting at the end 
the following new subsection:

    ``(c) Section 5008.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available, without 
further appropriation and without fiscal year limitation, to carry out 
section 5008(b), in an amount not to exceed $5,000,000: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official 
budget request that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.''.

                                CHAPTER 3

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                        wildland fire management

    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended, for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That 
$100,000,000 shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                            land acquisition

    For an additional amount for ``Land Acquisition'', $2,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, for acquisition of additional lands 
known as the Douglas Tract on the Potomac River in the State of 
Maryland, to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That $2,000,000 shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to 
the Congress.

[[Page 114 STAT. 548]]

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                        regulation and technology

    For an additional amount for ``Regulation and Technology'', 
$9,821,000, to remain available until expended for the regulatory 
program of the State of West Virginia, of which $6,222,000, not subject 
to section 705(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, 
shall be available for regulatory program enhancements for the surface 
mining regulatory program of the State of West Virginia: Provided, That 
the balance of the funds shall be made available to the State to augment 
staffing and provide relative support expenses for the State's 
regulatory program: Provided further, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for $9,821,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'' for 
emergency expenses resulting from damages from wind storms, $2,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request 
for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by such 
Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                        wildland fire management

    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended, for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression, and wildfire suppression: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That this amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation 
of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined by such Act, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 114 STAT. 549]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2301. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Indian 
Health Service is authorized to improve municipal, private or tribal 
lands with respect to the new construction of the clinic for the 
community of King Cove, Alaska authorized under section 353 of Public 
Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-303).
    Sec. 2302. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> From funds previously appropriated in 
Public Law 105-277 or other Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Acts under the heading ``Department of Energy, Fossil Energy Research 
and Development'', the Secretary of Energy shall make available within 
30 days after enactment of this Act $750,000 for the purpose of 
executing proposal No. FT40770.

    Sec. <<NOTE: Deadline. Fish and fishing.>> 2303. (a) Using funds 
appropriated by section 501(d) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 106-31), the Secretary shall 
provide interim compensation within 60 days of the date of the enactment 
of this Act to--
            (1) Dungeness fishing vessel crew members eligible for 
        interim compensation under the existing National Park Service 
        program (64 Fed. Reg. 145);
            (2) United States fish processors which have been negatively 
        affected by restrictions on fishing for Dungeness crab in 
        Glacier Bay National Park and which previously received interim 
        compensation; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Buy N Pack Seafoods.>> Buy N Pack Seafoods, a 
        United States fish processor located in Hoonah, Alaska and which 
        has been severely and negatively impacted by restrictions on 
        fishing in Glacier Bay National Park, for estimated 1999 and 
        2000 losses based on an average net income derived from 
        processing product harvested from Glacier Bay fisheries from 
        1995 through 1998.

Payments made to processors under paragraph (2) are intended to 
compensate recipients for losses incurred in 2000 and shall not exceed 
compensation provided for losses incurred in 1999. The Park Service 
shall not delay the scheduled public involvement process for the Glacier 
Bay compensation plan.
    (b) The amount of final compensation paid to any entity shall be 
reduced by the total dollar amount of any interim compensation payments 
received.
    (c) Funds appropriated for the purpose of making payments authorized 
by section 123(b) of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 
105-277, as amended) shall also be available for making payments 
authorized in subsection (c) of that section.

                                CHAPTER 4

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                  Mine Safety and Health Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-223.>> is amended by striking ``including 
not to exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health

[[Page 114 STAT. 550]]

and Safety Academy'' and inserting ``and, in addition, not to exceed 
$750,000 may be collected by the National Mine Health and Safety 
Academy''.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                      health resources and services

    For ``Health Resources and Services'' for special projects of 
regional and national significance under section 501(a)(2) of the Social 
Security Act, $20,000,000, which shall become available on October 1, 
2000, and shall remain available until September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That such amount shall not be counted toward compliance with the 
allocation required in section 502(a)(1) of such Act: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Abstinence.>> That such amount shall be used only for 
making competitive grants to provide abstinence education (as defined in 
section 510(b)(2) of such Act) to adolescents and for evaluations 
(including longitudinal evaluations) of activities under the grants and 
for Federal costs of administering the grant: Provided further, That 
such grants shall be made only to public and private entities which 
agree that, with respect to an adolescent to whom the entities provide 
abstinence education under such grant, the entities will not provide to 
that adolescent any other education regarding sexual conduct, except 
that, in the case of an entity expressly required by law to provide 
health information or services the adolescent shall not be precluded 
from seeking health information or services from the entity in a 
different setting than the setting in which the abstinence education was 
provided: Provided further, That the funds expended for such evaluations 
may not exceed 2.5 percent of such amount.

    For an additional amount for ``Health Resources and Services'', 
$3,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2001, for renovation 
and construction of a children's psychiatric services facility in Wading 
River, New York: Provided, That the entire amount is hereby designated 
by the Congress to be an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount provided 
shall be made available only after submission to the Congress of a 
formal budget request by the President that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 disease control, research, and training

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Disease Control, Research, and 
Training'', $12,000,000 for international HIV/AIDS programs, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the entire amount is 
hereby designated by the Congress to be an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as

[[Page 114 STAT. 551]]

amended: Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be made 
available only after submission to the Congress of a formal budget 
request by the President that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount for ``Disease Control, Research, and 
Training'', $460,000, to be derived by transfer from the amount made 
available for fiscal year 2000 for ``Health Resources and Services 
Administration, Health Resources and Services'' for construction and 
renovation of health care and other facilities.

                Administration for Children and Families

       payments to states for foster care and adoption assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Payments to States for Foster Care 
and Adoption Assistance'' for payments for fiscal year 2000, 
$35,000,000.

                    low income home energy assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Low Income Home Energy Assistance'' 
for emergency assistance under section 2602(e) of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8621(e)), $600,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is hereby 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That this amount 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of 
the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    Funds appropriated under this heading in the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of 
Public Law 106-113) for fiscal year 2000, pursuant to section 414(a) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, shall be available for the costs of 
assistance provided and other activities through September 30, 2002.

                         Administration on Aging

                         aging services programs

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-236.>> is amended by inserting after 
``$934,285,000'' the following: ``, of which $2,200,000 shall be for the 
Anchorage, Alaska Senior Center, and shall remain available until 
expended''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 552]]

                         Office of the Secretary

                     general departmental management

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts appropriated under this heading in title II of the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by 
section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-113), $20,000,000 is rescinded: 
Provided, That the amount rescinded is from the amount designated to 
become available on October 1, 2000, and to remain available until 
September 30, 2001.

            public health and social services emergency fund

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'', $31,200,000, to remain available until expended for 
the National Pharmaceutical Stockpile: Provided, That the entire amount 
is hereby designated by the Congress to be an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount provided shall be made available only after submission to 
the Congress of a formal budget request by the President that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    In addition, $43,200,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted 
into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-113) is hereby 
rescinded: Provided, That of such rescission, $12,000,000 shall be 
derived from the amount specified under such heading for international 
HIV/AIDS programs; and $31,200,000 shall be derived from the amount 
specified under such heading for activities related to countering 
potential biological, disease and chemical threats to civilian 
populations.

       General Provision--Department of Health and Human Services

    Sec. 2401. Section 206 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 
(as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-422.>> is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ``: Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to funds appropriated under the heading `Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Disease Control, Research, and 
Training', funds made available to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention under the heading `Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund', or any other funds made available in this Act to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 553]]

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                            special education

    The matter under this heading in the Department of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113 <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-249.>> is amended by inserting after the 
words ``Salt Lake City Organizing Committee'' the words ``, or a 
governmental agency or not-for-profit organization designated by the 
Salt Lake City Organizing Committee''.

                     vocational and adult education

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-250.>> is amended by striking 
``$858,150,000'' and inserting ``$882,650,000'', and by striking the 
last proviso, and inserting ``Provided further, That of the funds 
provided to become available on July 1, 2000, $19,000,000 shall be for 
Youth Offender Grants, of which $5,000,000 shall be used in accordance 
with section 601 of Public Law 102-73 as that section was in effect 
prior to the enactment of Public Law 105-220.''.

                            higher education

    Funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-78 to carry 
out title X-E of the Higher Education Act shall be available for 
obligation by the states through September 30, 2000, and funds 
appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-277 to carry out title 
VIII-D of the Higher Education Amendments of 1998 shall be available for 
obligation by the states through September 30, 2001.
    For an additional amount for ``Higher Education'' for carrying out 
part B of title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965, $750,000, to 
remain available until expended, which shall be awarded to the College 
of New Jersey, in Ewing, New Jersey, for creation of a center for 
inquiry and design-based learning in mathematics, science and technology 
education: Provided, That the entire amount is hereby designated by the 
Congress to be an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be made 
available only after submission to the Congress of a formal budget 
request by the President that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

             education research, statistics, and improvement

                      (including transfer of funds)

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-253.>> is amended--

[[Page 114 STAT. 554]]

            (1) by striking ``North Babylon Community Youth Services for 
        an educational program'' and inserting ``Town of Babylon Youth 
        Bureau for an educational program'';
            (2) by striking ``to promote participation among youth in 
        the United States democratic process'' and inserting ``to expand 
        access to and improve advanced education'';
            (3) by striking ``$500,000 shall be awarded to Shedd 
        Aquarium/Brookfield Zoo for science education/exposure programs 
        for local elementary school students'' and inserting ``$500,000 
        shall be awarded to Shedd Aquarium/Brookfield Zoo for science 
        education programs for local school students'';
            (4) by striking ``Oakland Unified School District in 
        California for an African American Literacy and Culture 
        Project'' and inserting ``California State University, Hayward, 
        for an African-American Literacy and Culture Project carried out 
        in partnership with the Oakland Unified School District in 
        California''; and
            (5) by striking ``$900,000 shall be awarded to the Boston 
        Music Education Collaborative comprehensive interdisciplinary 
        music program and teacher resource center in Boston, 
        Massachusetts'' and inserting ``$462,000 shall be awarded to the 
        Boston Symphony Orchestra for the teacher resource center and 
        $370,000 shall be awarded to the Boston Music Education 
        Collaborative for an interdisciplinary music program, in Boston, 
        Massachusetts''.

    For an additional amount for ``Education Research, Statistics, and 
Improvement'' to carry out part A of title X of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $368,000, to be derived by transfer 
from the amount made available for fiscal year 2000 for ``Health 
Resources and Services Administration, Health Resources and Services'' 
for construction and renovation of health care and other facilities: 
Provided, That such amount shall be awarded to the George Mason 
University Center for Services to Families and Schools to expand a 
program for schools and families of children suffering from attentional, 
cognitive, and behavioral disorders.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                     Social Security Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Limitation on Administrative 
Expenses'', $35,000,000, to be available through September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That the entire amount is hereby designated by the Congress to 
be an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be made 
available only after submission to the Congress of a formal budget 
request by the President that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 555]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2401. Section 513 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 
(as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-383.>> is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ``: Provided further, That the 
provisions of this section shall not apply to any funds appropriated to 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or to the Department of 
Education''.

    Sec. 2402. Section 403(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
603(a)(5)), as amended by section 806(b) of the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of 
Public Law 106-113) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``$1,500,000'' and 
        inserting ``$15,000,000'';
            (2) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``$900,000'' and 
        inserting ``$9,000,000''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``$300,000'' and 
        inserting ``$3,000,000''.

    Sec. 2403. (a) The Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 2841) 
is amended--
            (1) in section <<NOTE: 20 USC 9273.>> 503--
                    (A) by striking ``under Public Law 88-210 (as 
                amended; 20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.)'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``under Public Law 105-332 (20 U.S.C. 2301 
                et seq.)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, for 
fiscal year 2000, the Secretary shall not consider the expected levels 
of performance under Public Law 105-332 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) and 
shall not award a grant under subsection (a) based on the levels of 
performance for that Act.''.
    (b) Section 111(a)(1)(C) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and 
Technical Education Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 2321) is amended by striking 
``fiscal years 2000'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2001''.
    Sec. 2404. Of the funds made available in the Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of 
Public Law 106-113) for section 10105 of part A of title X of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, $2,250,000 of the amount 
appropriated shall be available October 1, 1999 for evaluation, 
technical assistance, and school networking activities, and up to 1 
percent of the amount appropriated shall be available October 1, 1999, 
for peer review of applications.
    Sec. 2405. Section 508(f )(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
U.S.C. 794d(f )(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Effective'' and all 
        that follows through ``1998,'' and inserting ``Effective 6 
        months after the date of publication by the Access Board of 
        final standards described in subsection (a)(2),''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``2 years'' and all 
        that follows and inserting ``6 months after the date of 
        publication by the Access Board of final standards described in 
        subsection (a)(2).''.

    Sec. 2406. For an additional amount for ``Health Resources and 
Services Administration, Health Resources and Services'',

[[Page 114 STAT. 556]]

$3,500,000, for the Saint John's Lutheran Hospital in Libby, Montana, 
for construction and renovation of health care and other facilities and 
an additional amount for the ``Economic Development Administration'', 
$8,000,000, only for a grant to the City of Libby, Montana, such amount 
to be transferred to the city upon its request, notwithstanding the 
provisions of any other law and without any local matching share or 
award conditions: Provided, That the entire amounts in this section are 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amounts provided within this section shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request that includes designation of the 
entire amounts of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 5

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                               fire safety

    For an additional amount for the Architect of the Capitol for 
expenses for fire safety, $17,480,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $7,039,000 shall be for ``Capitol Buildings and 
Grounds, Capitol Buildings, Salaries and Expenses''; $2,314,000 shall be 
for ``Senate Office Buildings''; $4,213,000 shall be for ``House Office 
Buildings''; $3,000 shall be for ``Capitol Power Plant''; $26,000 shall 
be for ``Botanic Garden, Salaries and Expenses''; and $3,885,000 shall 
be for ``Architect of the Capitol, Library Buildings and Grounds, 
Structural and Mechanical Care'': Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2501. Section 127(e)(1) of division A of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-277; 19 U.S.C. 2213 note) is amended by striking ``12 months'' 
and inserting ``15 months''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 557]]

                                CHAPTER 6

            DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                               Coast Guard

               acquisition, construction, and improvements

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, construction, and 
improvements'', $45,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
acquisition of one C-37A command and control aircraft: Provided, That 
the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall sell the current VC-11A command 
and control aircraft and credit the proceeds from that sale as 
offsetting collections to the appropriation under this heading: Provided 
further, That such proceeds may not be obligated without further 
appropriation: Provided further, That of the available balances under 
this heading from previous appropriations Acts, $11,400,000 are 
rescinded.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for ``Operations'', $75,000,000, to be 
derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to be available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That the entire amount under this heading 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $75,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by such Act, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'', $19,739,000, 
for emergency expenses associated with the investigation of the Egypt 
Air 990 and Alaska Air 261 accidents, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such funds shall be available for wreckage 
location and recovery facilities, technical support, testing, and 
wreckage mock-up: Provided further, That in the event the Arab Republic 
of Egypt reimburses the National Transportation Safety Board for 
wreckage location and recovery, family assistance, and interagency 
expenses, the Secretary of the Treasury shall reduce the appropriation 
under this heading by an amount equal to the reimbursement, less 
$5,000,000: Provided further, That the

[[Page 114 STAT. 558]]

Secretary of the Treasury shall not credit the appropriation under this 
heading with a reimbursement in excess of $8,983,000: Provided further, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2601. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
available under section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
$1,200,000 shall be available for the Paso Del Norte International 
Bridge in the State of Texas; $9,000,000 shall be available for the U.S. 
82 Mississippi River Bridge in the State of Mississippi; $2,000,000 
shall be available for the Union Village/Cambridge Junction bridges in 
the State of Vermont; $5,000,000 shall be available for the Naheola 
Bridge in the State of Alabama; $3,000,000 shall be available for the 
Hoover Dam Bypass in the States of Arizona and Nevada; $3,000,000 shall 
be available for the Witt-Penn Bridge in the State of New Jersey; and 
$12,000,000 shall be available for the Florida Memorial Bridge in the 
State of Florida.
    Sec. 2602. Of the funds transferred to the Department of 
Transportation for Year 2000 conversion of Federal information 
technology systems and related expenses pursuant to Public Law 105-277, 
$26,600,000 of the unobligated balance are hereby rescinded: Provided, 
That the Department of Transportation shall allocate this rescission 
among the appropriate accounts within the Department and report such 
allocation to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 2603. <<NOTE: Grants. 43 USC 7403 note.>> (a) The Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency shall make a grant for the 
purpose of carrying out the first year of a 2-year program to implement 
in five metropolitan areas pilot design programs developed under section 
365(a)(2) of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (113 Stat. 1028-1029).

    (b) The Administrator shall ensure that each pilot design program is 
implemented in accordance with recommendations developed by the National 
Telecommuting and Air Quality Steering Committee, in consultation with 
the local design teams.
    (c) Grants received under subsection (a) may be used for--
            (1) protocol development in the five metropolitan areas;
            (2) marketing of the telecommute, emissions reduction, 
        pollution credits strategy and recruitment of participating 
        employers; and
            (3) data gathering on emissions reductions.

    (d) In addition to the grant under subsection (a), for the purpose 
of carrying out the second year of the 2-year program referred to in 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall--
            (1) make a grant of $750,000 to the National Environmental 
        Policy Institute (a nonprofit private entity incorporated under 
        the laws of and located in the District of Columbia); and
            (2) make grants totaling $1,250,000 to local agencies within 
        the five metropolitan areas referred to in subsection (a).

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> Not later than 360 days from first 
day of the second year of the 2-year program referred to in subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report on the 
results of the program.

[[Page 114 STAT. 559]]

    (f ) The Administrator shall carry out this section in collaboration 
with the Secretary of Transportation.
    (g) There is appropriated to the Department of Transportation, 
``Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy'', $2,000,000 to carry 
out this section. Such amounts shall be transferred to and administered 
by the Environmental Protection Agency and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to 
the Congress.
    Sec. 2604. <<NOTE: 23 USC 130 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, hereafter, funds apportioned under section 104(b)(3) 
of title 23 which are applied to projects involving the elimination of 
hazards of railway-highway crossings, including the separation or 
protection of grades at crossings, the reconstruction of existing 
railroad grade crossing structures, and the relocation of highways to 
eliminate grade crossings, may have a Federal share up to 100 percent of 
the cost of construction.

    Sec. 2605. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses for planning, preliminary engineering and design of the Metro-
North Danbury to Norwalk commuter rail line re-electrification project, 
$2,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by 
such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2606. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses for the Second Avenue Subway in New York City, New York, 
$3,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by 
such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2607. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to a study of improvements to Highway 8, from the 
Minnesota border to Highway 51 in the State of Wisconsin, $500,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as

[[Page 114 STAT. 560]]

amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress.
    Sec. 2608. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for necessary 
expenses relating to construction of, and improvements to, Halls Mill 
Road in Monmouth County, New Jersey, $1,000,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to 
the Congress.

                                CHAPTER 7

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount, $24,900,000 for the Secretary of the 
Treasury to establish and operate an in-service firearms training 
facility for the United States Customs Service and other agencies, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary is 
authorized to designate a lead agency to oversee the development, 
implementation and operation of the facility and to conduct training: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Government organization. Contracts.>> That the 
land identified as the Sleepy Hollow Partnership and Marcus Enterprises 
tract (44,-R), Harpers Ferry Magisterial District, Jefferson County, 
West Virginia, together with a forty-five foot right-of-way over the 
lands of Valley Blox, Inc., as described in the deed from Joel T. 
Broyhill Enterprises, Inc., to Sleepy Hollow Partnership, et al., in a 
Deed dated March 29, 1989, and recorded in the Jefferson County Clerk's 
Office in Deed Book 627, Page 494, originally acquired by the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service as a proposed site for a training 
center but not selected for that purpose and presently held by the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service in an administrative capacity, 
shall be managed by the National Park Service pursuant to a cooperative 
management agreement between the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
and the National Park Service, consistent with the laws (including 
regulations) generally applicable to the National Park Service: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Government organization. Contracts. Deadline.>> That 
administrative jurisdiction of a suitable portion of said land that is 
necessary for the creation of a Department of the Treasury training 
facility, to be identified by the National Park Service, shall be 
transferred under a lease-type arrangement at no cost within 120-days of 
the date of the enactment of this Act to the Department of the Treasury 
for such time as required by the Department of the Treasury: Provided 
further, That the training to be conducted at the facility shall be 
configured in a manner so that it does not duplicate or displace any 
Federal law enforcement program of the Federal

[[Page 114 STAT. 561]]

Law Enforcement Training Center: Provided further, That training 
currently being conducted at a Federal Law Enforcement Training Center 
facility shall not be moved to the new training facility: Provided 
further, That at such time as the land is no longer required for 
training purposes, administrative jurisdiction shall be transferred back 
to the Department of the Interior in a manner and condition acceptable 
to the Department of the Interior: Provided further, That the total 
amount made available under this section is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request that includes designation of the 
entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount into the account established 
under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States Code, to reduce the 
public debt, $4,000,000,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That such amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' related to 
planning, coordination and implementation of security for national 
special security and major protective events, $10,000,000: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to 
the Congress.

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                                PRESIDENT

                        Office of Administration

                         information technology

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration for 
restoration and reconstruction of certain electronic mail messages and

[[Page 114 STAT. 562]]

for inclusion of such messages in the Automated Records Management 
System, $8,400,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That such funds may not be obligated until the Office of 
Administration submits to the Committees on Appropriations an 
independent verification and validation of the initial and projected 
costs of the tape restoration and reconstruction project: Provided 
further, That such submission shall include the final report prepared by 
the independent verification and validation contractor to the Office of 
Administration relating to the initial and projected cost estimates: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     General Services Administration

                          policy and operations

    For an additional amount, $3,300,000 to remain available until 
expended for the Salt Lake 2002 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games 
doping control program: Provided, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by such Act, is 
transmitted by the Presdient to the Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2701. Notwithstanding section 1345 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-58; 113 Stat. 467), funds made 
available for fiscal year 2000 for any other department or agency of the 
Federal Government with authority to conduct counterdrug intelligence 
activities may be available to finance an appropriate share of the 
administrative costs incurred by the Department of Justice for the 
Counterdrug Intelligence Executive Secretariat authorized by the General 
Counterdrug Intelligence Plan of February 12, 2000, except that the 
total amount that may be used under this section for such purpose shall 
not exceed $1,100,000.
    Sec. 2702. (a) The unobligated balance as of September 30, 2000, of 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Internal Revenue Service, 
Information Technology Investments'' in the Treasury Department 
Appropriations Act, 1998, title I of Public Law 105-61, is rescinded.
    (b) Subsection <<NOTE: Effective date.>> (a) shall be effective 
September 30, 2000.

[[Page 114 STAT. 563]]

    (c) The amount rescinded pursuant to subsection (a) is appropriated 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, 
including contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, which shall be available through September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That none of these funds shall be obligated until the Internal 
Revenue Service submits to Congress and Congress approves a plan for 
expenditure that: (1) meets the capital planning and investment control 
review requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget, 
including OMB Circular A-11 part 3; (2) complies with the Internal 
Revenue Service's enterprise architecture, including the modernization 
blueprint; (3) conforms with the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise 
life cycle methodology; (4) is approved by the Internal Revenue Service, 
the Department of the Treasury, and the Office of Management and Budget; 
(5) has been reviewed by the General Accounting Office; and (6) complies 
with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and systems 
acquisition management practices of the Federal Government.
    Sec. 2703. <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Restoration of Medicare Trust Funds. 
(a) Correction of Trust Fund Holdings.--
            (1) In general.--Within 120 days after the effective date of 
        this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall take the actions 
        described in paragraph (2) with respect to each trust fund with 
        the goal being that, after the actions are taken, the holdings 
        of the trust fund will replicate, to the extent practicable in 
        the judgement of the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the obligations 
        that would have been held by the trust fund if the clerical 
        error had not occurred.
            (2) Obligations issued and redeemed.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall--
                    (A) issue to each trust fund obligations under 
                chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, that bear 
                issue dates, interest rates, and maturity dates as the 
                obligations that--
                          (i) would have been issued to the trust fund 
                      if the clerical error had not occurred; or
                          (ii) were issued to the trust fund and were 
                      redeemed by reason of the clerical error; and
                    (B) redeem from each trust fund obligations that--
                          (i) would not have been issued to the trust 
                      fund if the clerical error had not occurred; or
                          (ii) would have been redeemed from the trust 
                      fund if the clerical error had not occurred.

    (b) Correction of Interest Income.--
            (1) Transfer of excess interest income.--Within 120 days 
        after the effective date of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall transfer from the Federal Hospital Insurance 
        Trust Fund to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust 
        Fund an amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to 
        be equal to the amount of interest income that was credited to 
        the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund that would not have 
        been credited if the clerical error had not occurred.
            (2) Credit of lost interest income.--Within 120 days after 
        the effective date of this Act, there is hereby appropriated

[[Page 114 STAT. 564]]

        to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, out 
        of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, an 
        amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to 
        be equal to the difference between--
                    (A) the interest income lost by that trust fund 
                through the date of credit by reason of the clerical 
                error; and
                    (B) the amount transferred to that trust fund under 
                paragraph (1).

    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Clerical error.--The term ``clerical error'' means the 
        erroneous transfers of moneys between the investment accounts 
        and uninvested transfer accounts of the trust funds that 
        occurred in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, as 
        described in the Department of Health and Human Services' 
        ``Accountability Report for Fiscal Year 1999: Federal Managers 
        Financial Integrity Act Report on Systems and Controls''.
            (2) Trust fund.--The term ``trust fund'' means either the 
        Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal 
        Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

    Sec. 2704. <<NOTE: Anti-doping.>> (a) In General.--Of the amounts 
provided to the Office of National Drug Control Policy for fiscal year 
2000, pursuant to section 237 of H.R. 3425 of the 106th Congress, as 
enacted into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-113, the 
Director of such Office shall make a direct payment of $3,000,000 to the 
United States Olympic Committee for the conduct of anti-doping 
activities through the United States Anti-Doping Agency.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Direct Payments.--Effective on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy is authorized and directed to make a direct 
payment to the United States Olympic Committee for the conduct of anti-
doping activities through the United States Anti-Doping Agency.

    Sec. 2705. (a) The unobligated balance as of September 30, 2000, of 
funds transferred to the United States Secret Service pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 240 of H.R. 3425 of the 106th Congress, as 
enacted into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-113, is 
rescinded.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subsection (a) shall be effective 
September 30, 2000.

    (c) The amount rescinded pursuant to subsection (a) is appropriated 
to the United States Secret Service for salaries and expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001.
    Sec. 2706. Of the amounts provided in Public Law 106-58 in the 
Policy and Operations account, the General Services Administration is 
hereby authorized to provide $225,000, to remain available until 
expended, for the Nebraska State Patrol Digital Distance Learning 
project.

                                CHAPTER 8

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                   community development block grants

    The referenced statement of the managers in the sixth undesignated 
paragraph under this heading in title II of Public Law 106-

[[Page 114 STAT. 565]]

74 is deemed to be amended by striking ``Montgomery'' in reference to 
the planning and construction of a regional learning center at Spring 
Hill College, and inserting ``Mobile''.
    The referenced statement of the managers in the fourth undesignated 
paragraph under this heading in title II of Public Law 106-74 for 
neighborhood initiatives for specified grants to the City of Yankton, 
South Dakota, for the restoration of the downtown area and the 
development of the Fox Run Industrial Park is deemed to be amended by 
adding after the word ``Park'' the following: ``and for activities to 
facilitate economic development, including infrastructure 
improvements''.
    For an additional amount for targeted economic development 
initiatives under the Community Development Block Grants program, 
$27,500,000: Provided, That the statement of the managers accompanying 
Public Law 106-74 is deemed to be amended to include in the description 
of targeted economic development initiatives the following:
            ``--$1,300,000 to the City of Park Falls, Wisconsin for 
        economic development, including purchase of municipal equipment 
        and infrastructure improvements in industrial parks and the City 
        of Park Falls;
            ``--$250,000 to the Lake Superior BTC cultural center in 
        Washburn, Wisconsin for restoration of facilities and equipment 
        destroyed by fire;
            ``--$900,000 to the City of Hatley, Wisconsin for the cost 
        of water, wastewater and sewer system improvements;
            ``--$50,000 to the City of Hamlet, North Carolina for 
        demolition and removal of buildings and equipment destroyed by 
        fire; and
            ``--$25,000,000 to the City of Youngstown, Ohio for site 
        acquisition, planning, architectural design, and construction of 
        a convocation and community center.'':

Provided, That the entire amount under this paragraph shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For an additional amount for the HOME investment partnerships 
program, as authorized under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (Public Law 101-625), as amended, $36,000,000: 
Provided, That of said amount, $11,000,000 shall be provided to the New 
Jersey Department of Community Affairs and $25,000,000 shall be provided 
to the North Carolina Housing Finance Agency for the purpose of 
providing temporary assistance in obtaining rental housing, and for 
construction of affordable replacement housing: Provided further, That 
assistance provided under this paragraph shall be for very low-income 
families displaced by flooding caused by Hurricane Floyd and surrounding 
events: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section

[[Page 114 STAT. 566]]

251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                       homeless assistance grants

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in title II of 
Public Law 106-74, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, 
for each request described in the following proviso, make a 1-year grant 
to the entity making the request in the amount under the second proviso: 
Provided, That a request described in this proviso is a request for a 
grant under subtitle C of title IV of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) for permanent housing for 
homeless persons with disabilities or subtitle F of such title (42 
U.S.C. 11403 et seq.) that: (1) was submitted in accordance with the 
eligibility requirements established by the Secretary and pursuant to 
the notice of funding availability for fiscal year 1999 covering such 
programs, but was not approved; (2) was made by an entity that received 
such a grant pursuant to the notice of funding availability for a 
previous fiscal year; and (3) requested renewal of funding made under 
such previous grant for use for eligible activities because funding 
under such previous grant expires during calendar year 2000: Provided 
further, That the amount under this proviso is the amount necessary, as 
determined by the Secretary, to renew funding for the eligible 
activities under the grant request for a period of only 1 year, taking 
into consideration the amount of funding requested for the first year of 
funding under the grant request: Provided further, That in the third 
proviso under this heading in Public Law 106-74, <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 
1063.>> insert ``and management and information systems'' after 
``technical assistance''.

                      Management and Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is prohibited from 
using any funds in Public Law 106-74 or any other Act to employ more 
than 9,100 full-time equivalent employees at the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development in fiscal year 2000.

                       office of inspector general

                     (including rescission of funds)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 106-
74, $6,000,000 provided for the ``Office of Inspector General'' is 
rescinded. For an additional amount for the ``Office of Inspector 
General'', $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That these funds shall be made available under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized for the funds under this heading in Public 
Law 106-74.

[[Page 114 STAT. 567]]

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                 national and community service programs

                           operating expenses

                          (rescission of funds)

    Of the amounts available in the National Service Trust account from 
previous appropriations Acts, $1,000,000 shall be rescinded.

                       office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of Inspector General'' for 
reviews and audits of the State Commissions on National and Community 
Service (including alternative administrative entities) established 
under section 178 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12638), $1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001.

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                  environmental programs and management

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Of the amount appropriated under this heading in title III of Public 
Law 106-74, $2,374,900, in addition to amounts made available for the 
following in prior Acts, shall be and have been available to award 
grants for work on the Buffalo Creek and other New York watersheds and 
for aquifer protection work in and around Cortland County, New York, 
including work on the Upper Susquehanna watershed.
    Of the amount appropriated under this heading in title III of Public 
Law 105-276 to establish a regional environmental data center and to 
develop an integrated, automated water quality monitoring and 
information system for watersheds impacting Chesapeake Bay, $2,600,000 
shall be transferred to the ``State and tribal assistance grants'' 
account to remain available until expended for grants for wastewater and 
sewer infrastructure improvements for Smithfield Township, Monroe County 
($800,000); the Municipal Authority of the Borough of Milford, Pike 
County ($800,000); the City of Carbondale, Lackawanna County ($200,000); 
Throop Borough, Lackawanna County ($200,000); and Dickson City, 
Lackawanna County ($600,000), Pennsylvania.
    None of the funds made available for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 for 
the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to make a final 
determination on or implement any new rule relative to the Proposed 
Revisions to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Program 
and Federal Antidegradation Policy and the Proposed Revisions to the 
Water Quality Planning and Management Regulations Concerning Total 
Maximum Daily Load, published in the Federal Register on August 23, 
1999.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in title 
III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing

[[Page 114 STAT. 568]]

and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 
(Public Law 106-74), is deemed to be amended by striking ``in the town 
of Waynesville'' in reference to water and wastewater infrastructure 
improvements as identified in project number 102, and by inserting 
``Haywood County''; by adding the words ``for the Fourpole Pumping 
Station'' after the word ``improvements'' in reference to water and 
wastewater infrastructure improvements as identified in project number 
135; and by striking the words ``at the West County Wastewater Treatment 
Plant'' in reference to wastewater infrastructure improvements within 
the Metropolitan Sewer District at Louisville, Kentucky as identified in 
project number 50.

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

    Of the unobligated balances made available under the second 
paragraph under this heading in Public Law 106-74, in addition to other 
amounts made available, up to $50,000,000 may be used by the Director of 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the buyout or elevation of 
properties which are principal residences that have been made 
uninhabitable by floods in areas which were declared Federal disasters 
in fiscal years 1999 and 2000: Provided, That such properties are 
located in a 100-year floodplain: Provided further, That no homeowner 
may receive any assistance for buyouts in excess of the pre-flood fair 
market value of the residence (reduced by any proceeds from insurance or 
any other source paid or owed as a result of the flood damage to the 
residence): Provided further, That each State shall ensure that there is 
a contribution from non-Federal sources of not less than 25 percent in 
matching funds (other than administrative costs) for any funds allocated 
to the State for buyout assistance: Provided further, That all buyouts 
under this paragraph shall be subject to the terms and conditions 
specified under 42 U.S.C. 5170c(b)(2)(B): Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available for buyouts under this paragraph may be used in 
any calculation of a State's section 404 allocation: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports. Certification.>> That the Director shall 
report quarterly to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on 
the use of all funds allocated under this paragraph and certify that the 
use of all funds are consistent with all applicable laws and 
requirements: Provided further, That no funds shall be allocated for 
buyouts under this paragraph except in accordance with regulations 
promulgated by the Director: Provided further, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 569]]

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                   science, aeronautics and technology

    For an additional amount for ``Science, aeronautics and 
technology'', $1,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2001: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
an official budget request, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2801. Title V, subtitle C, section 538 of Public Law 106-74, is 
amended <<NOTE: 42 USC 1437f.>> by striking ``during any period that the 
assisted family continues residing in the same project in which the 
family was residing on the date of the eligibility event for the 
project, if'' and inserting ``the assisted family may elect to remain in 
the same project in which the family was residing on the date of the 
eligibility event for the project, and if, during any period the family 
makes such an election and continues to so reside,''.

    Sec. 2802. <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1533.>> Section 175 of Public Law 106-
113 is amended by striking ``as a grant for Special Olympics in 
Anchorage, Alaska to develop the Ben Boeke Arena and Hilltop Ski Area,'' 
and inserting ``to the Organizing Committee for the 2001 Special 
Olympics World Winter games to be used in support of related activities 
in Alaska,''.

    Sec. 2803. (a) Technical Revision to Public Law 106-74.--Title II of 
Public Law 106-74 is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1060.>> under the heading ``Urban 
        Empowerment Zones'', by striking ``$3,666,000'' and inserting 
        ``$3,666,666''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1062.>> under the heading ``Community 
        Development Block Grants'' under the fourth undesignated 
        paragraph, by striking ``$23,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$22,750,000''.

    (b) Technical Revision to Public Law 106-113.--Section 242(a) of 
Appendix E of Public Law 106-113 <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-303.>>  is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``seventh'' and inserting ``sixth''; and
            (2) by striking ``$250,175,000'' and inserting 
        ``$250,900,000''.

    (c) Effective Dates.--The amendments made by--
            (1) subsection (a) shall be construed to have taken effect 
        on October 20, 1999; and
            (2) subsection (b) shall be construed to have taken effect 
        on November 29, 1999.

    Sec. 2804. Section 235 Rescission.--Section 208(3) of the 
Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and 
Independent Agencies <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1073.>> Appropriations Act, 2000 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``235(r)'' and inserting ``235'';
            (2) by inserting after ``104 Stat. 2305)'' the following: 
        ``for payments under section 235(r) of the National Housing 
        Act''; and
            (3) by striking ``for such purposes''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 570]]

                                CHAPTER 9

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2901. For an additional amount for the District of Columbia 
Metropolitan Police Department, $4,485,000 for the reimbursement of 
certain costs incurred by the District of Columbia as host of the 
International Monetary Fund and World Bank Organization Spring 
Conference in April 2000: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request for $4,485,000, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                       TITLE III--COUNTERNARCOTICS

                                CHAPTER 1

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                               PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$30,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That the entire amount provided shall be available 
only to the extent an official budget request that includes designation 
of the entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $154,059,000, to remain available for obligation 
until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
the funds provided herein only to appropriations for military personnel; 
operation and maintenance; procurement; research, development, test and 
evaluation; and working capital funds: Provided further, That the funds 
transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period, as the appropriation to

[[Page 114 STAT. 571]]

which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That 
no funds made available under this heading may be obligated or expended 
for training, logistics support, planning or assistance contracts for 
any overseas activity until 15 days after the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense, Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict reports to the 
congressional defense committees on the value, duration and purpose of 
such contracts.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3101. (a) Authority To Provide Support.--Of the amount 
appropriated in this Act for the Department of Defense, not to exceed 
$45,000,000 shall be available for the provision of support for counter-
drug activities of the Government of Colombia. The support provided 
under this section shall be in addition to support provided for counter-
drug activities of the Government of Colombia under any other provision 
of law.
    (b) Types of Support.--The support that may be provided using this 
section shall be limited to the types of support specified in section 
1033(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 1882). In addition, using unobligated 
balances from the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public 
Law 105-262), the Secretary of Defense may transfer one light 
observation aircraft to Colombia for counter-drug activities.
    (c) Conditions on Provision of Support.--(1) The Secretary of 
Defense may not obligate or expend funds appropriated in this Act to 
provide support under this section for counter-drug activities of the 
Government of Colombia until the end of the 15-day period beginning on 
the date on which the Secretary submits the written certification for 
fiscal year 2000 pursuant to section 1033(f )(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 
1882).
    (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The elements of the written 
certification submitted for fiscal year 2000 described in section 
1033(g) of that Act shall apply to, and the written certification shall 
address, the support provided under this section for counter-drug 
activities of the Government of Colombia.

                                CHAPTER 2

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                   Funds Appropriated to the President

                           Department of State

               assistance for counternarcotics activities

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to support Central and South America and 
Caribbean counternarcotics activities, $1,018,500,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the funds appropriated under 
this heading, not less than $110,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Bolivia, of which not less than $85,000,000

[[Page 114 STAT. 572]]

may be made available for alternative development and other economic 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $20,000,000 may be made available for assistance 
for Ecuador, of which not less than $8,000,000 may be made available for 
alternative development and other economic activities: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$18,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for other countries 
in South and Central America and the Caribbean which are cooperating 
with United States counternarcotics objectives: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading not less than $60,000,000 
shall be made available for the procurement, refurbishing, and support 
for UH-1H Huey II helicopters for the Colombian Army: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less than 
$234,000,000 shall be made available for the procurement of and support 
for UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters for use by the Colombian Army and the 
Colombian National Police: Provided further, That procurement of UH-60 
Blackhawk helicopters from funds made available under this heading shall 
be managed by the United States Defense Security Cooperation 
Agency: <<NOTE: President.>> Provided further, That the President shall 
ensure that if any helicopter procured with funds under this heading is 
used to aid or abet the operations of an illegal self-defense group or 
illegal security cooperative, then such helicopter shall be immediately 
returned to the United States: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, $2,500,000 shall be available for a 
program for the demobilization and rehabilitation of child soldiers in 
Colombia: Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes: 
Provided further, That section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated under this heading: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> That the Secretary of State, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and prior to the initial obligation of any 
funds appropriated under this heading, a report on the proposed uses of 
all funds under this heading on a country-by-country basis for each 
proposed program, project or activity: Provided further, That at least 
20 days prior to the obligation of funds made available under this 
heading the Secretary of State shall inform the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire amount provided 
shall be available only to the extent an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3201. Conditions on Assistance for Colombia. (a) Conditions.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 573]]

            (1) Certification required.--Assistance provided under this 
        heading may be made available for Colombia in fiscal years 2000 
        and 2001 only if the Secretary of State certifies to the 
        appropriate congressional committees prior to the initial 
        obligation of such assistance in each such fiscal year, that--
                    (A)(i) the President of Colombia has directed in 
                writing that Colombian Armed Forces personnel who are 
                credibly alleged to have committed gross violations of 
                human rights will be brought to justice in Colombia's 
                civilian courts, in accordance with the 1997 ruling of 
                Colombia's Constitutional court regarding civilian court 
                jurisdiction in human rights cases; and
                    (ii) the Commander General of the Colombian Armed 
                Forces is promptly suspending from duty any Colombian 
                Armed Forces personnel who are credibly alleged to have 
                committed gross violations of human rights or to have 
                aided or abetted paramilitary groups; and
                    (iii) the Colombian Armed Forces and its Commander 
                General are fully complying with (A)(i) and (ii); and
                    (B) the Colombian Armed Forces are cooperating fully 
                with civilian authorities in investigating, prosecuting, 
                and punishing in the civilian courts Colombian Armed 
                Forces personnel who are credibly alleged to have 
                committed gross violations of human rights;
                    (C) the Government of Colombia is vigorously 
                prosecuting in the civilian courts the leaders and 
                members of paramilitary groups and Colombian Armed 
                Forces personnel who are aiding or abetting these 
                groups;
                    (D) the Government of Colombia has agreed to and is 
                implementing a strategy to eliminate Colombia's total 
                coca and opium poppy production by 2005 through a mix of 
                alternative development programs; manual eradication; 
                aerial spraying of chemical herbicides; tested, 
                environmentally safe mycoherbicides; and the destruction 
                of illicit narcotics laboratories on Colombian 
                territory; and
                    (E) the Colombian Armed Forces are developing and 
                deploying in their field units a Judge Advocate General 
                Corps to investigate Colombian Armed Forces personnel 
                for misconduct.
            (2) Consultative process.--The Secretary of State shall 
        consult with internationally recognized human rights 
        organizations regarding the Government of Colombia's progress in 
        meeting the conditions contained in paragraph (1), prior to 
        issuing the certification required under paragraph (1).
            (3) Application of existing laws.--The same restrictions 
        contained in section 564 of the Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public 
        Law 106-113) and section 8098 of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-79) shall apply to the 
        availability of funds under this heading.
            (4) Waiver.--Assistance may be furnished without regard to 
        this section if the President determines and certifies to the 
        appropriate committees that to do so is in the national security 
        interest.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Aiding or abetting.--The term ``aiding or abetting'' 
        means direct and indirect support to paramilitary groups,

[[Page 114 STAT. 574]]

        including conspiracy to allow, facilitate, or promote the 
        activities of paramilitary groups.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Paramilitary groups.--The term ``paramilitary groups'' 
        means illegal self-defense groups and illegal security 
        cooperatives.
            (4) Assistance.--The term ``assistance'' means assistance 
        appropriated under this heading for fiscal years 2000 and 2001, 
        and provided under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 1004 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-
                510; relating to counter-drug assistance).
                    (B) Section 1033 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-
                85; relating to counter-drug assistance to Colombia and 
                Peru).
                    (C) Section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (Public Law 90-629; relating to credit sales).
                    (D) Section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to international 
                narcotics control).
                    (E) Section 506 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to emergency drawdown 
                authority).

    Sec. 3202. <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> Regional Strategy. (a) 
Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the President shall submit to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives, a report on the current United States 
policy and strategy regarding United States counternarcotics assistance 
for Colombia and neighboring countries.

    (b) Report Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
            (1) The key objectives of the United States' 
        counternarcotics strategy in Colombia and neighboring countries 
        and a detailed description of benchmarks by which to measure 
        progress toward those objectives.
            (2) The actions required of the United States to support and 
        achieve these objectives, and a schedule and cost estimates for 
        implementing such actions.
            (3) The role of the United States in the efforts of the 
        Government of Colombia to deal with illegal drug production in 
        Colombia.
            (4) The role of the United States in the efforts of the 
        Government of Colombia to deal with the insurgency and 
        paramilitary forces in Colombia.
            (5) How the strategy with respect to Colombia relates to and 
        affects the United States' strategy in the neighboring 
        countries.
            (6) How the strategy with respect to Colombia relates to and 
        affects the United States' strategy for fulfilling global 
        counternarcotics goals.

[[Page 114 STAT. 575]]

            (7) A strategy and schedule for providing material, 
        technical, and logistical support to Colombia and neighboring 
        countries in order to defend the rule of law and to more 
        effectively impede the cultivation, production, transit, and 
        sale of illicit narcotics.
            (8) A schedule for making Forward Operating Locations (FOL) 
        fully operational, including cost estimates and a description of 
        the potential capabilities for each proposed location and an 
        explanation of how the FOL architecture fits into the overall 
        Strategy.

    Sec. 3203. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Report on Extradition of Narcotics 
Traffickers.--(a) Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this title, and every 6 months thereafter, during the 
period Plan Colombia resources are made available, the Secretary of 
State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee 
on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and 
the Committee on International Relations, the Committee on the 
Judiciary, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth--
            (1) a list of the persons whose extradition has been 
        requested from any country receiving counternarcotics assistance 
        from the United States, indicating those persons who--
                    (A) have been surrendered to the custody of United 
                States authorities;
                    (B) have been detained by the authorities and who 
                are being processed for extradition;
                    (C) have been detained by the authorities and who 
                are not yet being processed for extradition; or
                    (D) are at large;
            (2) a determination whether authorities of each country 
        receiving counternarcotics assistance from the United States are 
        making good faith efforts to ensure the prompt extradition of 
        each of the persons sought by United States authorities; and
            (3) an analysis of--
                    (A) any legal obstacles in the laws of each country 
                receiving counternarcotics assistance from the United 
                States regarding prompt extradition of persons sought by 
                United States authorities; and
                    (B) the steps taken by authorities of the United 
                States and the authorities of each country receiving 
                counternarcotics assistance from the United States to 
                overcome such obstacles.

    Sec. 3204. Limitations on Support for Plan Colombia and on the 
Assignment of United States Personnel in Colombia. (a) Limitation on 
Support for Plan Colombia.--
            (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), none 
        of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by any Act 
        shall be available for support of Plan Colombia unless and 
        until--
                    (A) the President submits a report to Congress 
                requesting the availability of such funds; and
                    (B) Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the 
                request of the President under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Exceptions.--The limitation in paragraph (1) does not 
        apply to--

[[Page 114 STAT. 576]]

                    (A) appropriations made by this Act, the Foreign 
                Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
                Appropriations Act, 2001, the Military Construction 
                Appropriations Act, 2001, the Commerce, Justice, State 
                and the Judiciary Appropriations Act, 2001, the Treasury 
                and General Government Appropriations Act, 2001, or the 
                Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001, for the 
                purpose of support of Plan Colombia; or
                    (B) the unobligated balances from any other program 
                used for their originally appropriated purpose to combat 
                drug production and trafficking, foster peace, increase 
                the rule of law, improve human rights, expand economic 
                development, and institute justice reform in the 
                countries covered by Plan Colombia.
            (3) Waiver.--The limitations in subsection (a) may be waived 
        by an Act of Congress.

    (b) Limitation on Assignment of United States Personnel in 
Colombia.--
            (1) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), none 
        of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or 
        any other Act (including funds described in subsection (c)) may 
        be available for--
                    (A) the assignment of any United States military 
                personnel for temporary or permanent duty in Colombia in 
                connection with support of Plan Colombia if that 
                assignment would cause the number of United States 
                military personnel so assigned in Colombia to exceed 
                500; or
                    (B) the employment of any United States individual 
                civilian retained as a contractor in Colombia if that 
                employment would cause the total number of United States 
                individual civilian contractors employed in Colombia in 
                support of Plan Colombia who are funded by Federal funds 
                to exceed 300.
            (2) Exception.--The limitation contained in paragraph (1) 
        shall not apply if--
                    (A) the President submits a report to Congress 
                requesting that the limitation not apply; and
                    (B) Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the 
                request of the President under subparagraph (A).

    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitation in subsection 
(b)(1) for a single period of up to 90 days in the event that the Armed 
Forces of the United States are involved in hostilities or that imminent 
involvement by the Armed Forces of the United States in hostilities is 
clearly indicated by the circumstances.
    (d) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to affect the authority of the President to carry out any 
emergency evacuation of United States citizens or any search or rescue 
operation for United States military personnel or other United States 
citizens.
    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> Report on Support for Plan 
Colombia.--Not later than June 1, 2001, and not later than June 1 and 
December 1 of each of the succeeding 4 fiscal years, the President shall 
submit a report to Congress setting forth any costs (including 
incremental costs incurred by the Department of Defense) incurred by any 
department, agency, or other entity of the executive branch of 
Government during the two previous fiscal quarters in support of Plan 
Colombia.

[[Page 114 STAT. 577]]

 Each such report shall provide an itemization of expenditures by each 
such department, agency, or entity.

    (f ) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> Bimonthly Reports.--Beginning 
within 90 days of the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 60 
days thereafter, the President shall submit a report to Congress that 
shall include the aggregate number, locations, activities, and lengths 
of assignment for all temporary and permanent United States military 
personnel and United States individual civilians retained as contractors 
involved in the antinarcotics campaign in Colombia.
    (g) Congressional Priority Procedures.--
            (1) Joint resolutions defined.--
                    (A) For purposes of subsection (a)(1)(B), the term 
                ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution 
                introduced not later than 10 days of the date on which 
                the report of the President under subsection (a)(1)(A) 
                is received by Congress, the matter after the resolving 
                clause of which is as follows: ``That Congress approves 
                the request of the President for additional funds for 
                Plan Colombia contained in the report submitted by the 
                President under section 3204(a)(1) of the 2000 Emergency 
                Supplemental Appropriations Act.''.
                    (B) For purposes of subsection (b)(2)(B), the term 
                ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution 
                introduced not later than 10 days of the date on which 
                the report of the President under subsection (a)(1)(A) 
                is received by Congress, the matter after the resolving 
                clause of which is as follows: ``That Congress approves 
                the request of the President for exemption from the 
                limitation applicable to the assignment of personnel in 
                Colombia contained in the report submitted by the 
                President under section 3204(b)(2)(B) of the 2000 
                Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act.''.
            (2) Procedures.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a 
        joint resolution described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(B) shall 
        be considered in a House of Congress in accordance with the 
        procedures applicable to joint resolutions under paragraphs (3) 
        through (8) of section 8066(c) of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 1985 (as contained in Public Law 98-473; 98 
        Stat. 1936).

    (h) Plan Colombia Defined.--In this section, the term ``Plan 
Colombia'' means the plan of the Government of Colombia instituted by 
the administration of President Pastrana to combat drug production and 
trafficking, foster peace, increase the rule of law, improve human 
rights, expand economic development, and institute justice reform.
    Sec. 3205. (a) Denial of Visas for Persons Credibly Alleged To Have 
Aided and Abetted Colombian Insurgent and Paramilitary Groups.--None of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this Act for any 
fiscal year for the Department of State may be used to issue visas to 
any person who has been credibly alleged to have provided direct or 
indirect support to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), 
the National Liberation Army (ELN), or the United Colombian Self Defense 
organization (AUC), including conspiracy to allow, facilitate, or 
promote the illegal activities of such groups.
    (b) Exemption.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
State finds, on a case-by-case basis, that the entry into the

[[Page 114 STAT. 578]]

United States of a person who would otherwise be excluded under this 
section is necessary for medical reasons, or to permit the prosecution 
of such person in the United States, or the person has cooperated fully 
with the investigation of crimes committed by individuals associated 
with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the National 
Liberation Army (ELN), or the United Colombian Self Defense organization 
(AUC).
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the limitation in subsection 
(a) if the President determines that the waiver is in the national 
interest.
    Sec. 3206. Limitation on Supplemental Funds for Population 
Planning.--Amounts appropriated under this division or under any other 
provision of law for fiscal year 2000 that are in addition to the funds 
made available under title II of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2000 (as enacted 
into law by section 1000(a)(2) of Public Law 106-113) shall be deemed to 
have been appropriated under title II of such Act and shall be subject 
to all limitations and restrictions contained in section 599D of such 
Act, notwithstanding section 543 of such Act.
    Sec. 3207. Declaration of Support. (a) Certification Required.--
Assistance may be made available for Colombia in fiscal years 2000 and 
2001 only if the Secretary of State certifies to the appropriate 
congressional committees, before the initial obligation of such 
assistance in each such fiscal year, that the United States Government 
publicly supports the military and political efforts of the Government 
of Colombia, consistent with human rights conditions in section 3101, 
necessary to effectively resolve the conflicts with the guerrillas and 
paramilitaries that threaten the territorial integrity, economic 
prosperity, and rule of law in Colombia.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the following:
                    (A) The Committees on Appropriations and Foreign 
                Relations of the Senate.
                    (B) The Committees on Appropriations and 
                International Relations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Assistance.--The term ``assistance'' means assistance 
        appropriated under this heading for fiscal years 2000 and 2001, 
        and provided under the following provisions of law:
                    (A) Section 1004 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-
                510; relating to counter-drug assistance).
                    (B) Section 1033 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-
                85; relating to counter-drug assistance to Colombia and 
                Peru).
                    (C) Section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (Public Law 90-629; relating to credit sales).
                    (D) Section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to international 
                narcotics control).
                    (E) Section 506 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (Public Law 87-195; relating to emergency drawdown 
                authority).

[[Page 114 STAT. 579]]

                                CHAPTER 3

                   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, DEFENSE-WIDE

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an additional amount 
for ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $116,523,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $116,523,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress.

  TITLE <<NOTE: Lewis and Clark Rural Water System Act of 2000. State 
listing.>> IV--LEWIS AND CLARK RURAL WATER SYSTEM

SEC. 4101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Lewis and Clark Rural Water System 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 4102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Feasibility study.--The term ``feasibility study'' means 
        the study entitled ``Feasibility Level Evaluation of a Missouri 
        River Regional Water Supply for South Dakota, Iowa and 
        Minnesota'', dated September 1993, that includes a water 
        conservation plan, environmental report, and environmental 
        enhancement component.
            (2) Incremental cost.--The term ``incremental cost'' means 
        the cost of the savings to the project were the City of Sioux 
        Falls not to participate in the water supply system.
            (3) Member entity.--The term ``member entity'' means a rural 
        water system or municipality that meets the requirements for 
        membership as defined by the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System, 
        Inc. bylaws, dated September 6, 1990.
            (4) Project construction budget.--The term ``project 
        construction budget'' means the description of the total amount 
        of funds needed for the construction of the water supply 
        project, as contained in the feasibility study.
            (5) Pumping and incidental operational requirements.--The 
        term ``pumping and incidental operational requirements'' means 
        all power requirements that are necessary for the operation of 
        intake facilities, pumping stations, water treatment facilities, 
        reservoirs, and pipelines up to the point of delivery of water 
        by the water supply system to each member entity that 
        distributes water at retail to individual users.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) Water supply project.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``water supply project'' 
                means the physical components of the Lewis and Clark 
                Rural Water Project.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``water supply project'' 
                includes--

[[Page 114 STAT. 580]]

                          (i) necessary pumping, treatment, and 
                      distribution facilities;
                          (ii) pipelines;
                          (iii) appurtenant buildings and property 
                      rights;
                          (iv) electrical power transmission and 
                      distribution facilities necessary for services to 
                      water systems facilities; and
                          (v) such other pipelines, pumping plants, and 
                      facilities as the Secretary considers necessary 
                      and appropriate to meet the water supply, 
                      economic, public health, and environment needs of 
                      the member entities (including water storage 
                      tanks, water lines, and other facilities for the 
                      member entities).
            (8) Water supply system.--The term ``water supply system'' 
        means the Lewis and Clark Rural Water System, Inc., a nonprofit 
        corporation established and operated substantially in accordance 
        with the feasibility study.

SEC. 4103. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.

    (a) <<NOTE: Grants.>> In General.--The Secretary shall make grants 
to the water supply system for the planning and construction of the 
water supply project.

    (b) Service Area.--The water supply system shall provide for the 
member entities safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water 
supplies, mitigation of wetland areas, and water conservation in--
            (1) Lake County, McCook County, Minnehaha County, Turner 
        County, Lincoln County, Clay County, and Union County, in 
        southeastern South Dakota;
            (2) Rock County and Nobles County, in southwestern 
        Minnesota; and
            (3) Lyon County, Sioux County, Osceola County, O'Brien 
        County, Dickinson County, and Clay County, in northwestern Iowa.

    (c) Amount of Grants.--Grants made available under subsection (a) to 
the water supply system shall not exceed the amount of funds authorized 
under section 4108.
    (d) Limitation on Availability of Construction Funds.--The Secretary 
shall not obligate funds for the construction of the water supply 
project until--
            (1) the requirements of the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) are met; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> a final engineering report 
        and a plan for a water conservation program are prepared and 
        submitted to the Congress not less than 90 days before the 
        commencement of construction of the water supply project.

SEC. 4104. MITIGATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE LOSSES.

    Mitigation for fish and wildlife losses incurred as a result of the 
construction and operation of the water supply project shall be on an 
acre-for-acre basis, based on ecological equivalency, concurrent with 
project construction, as provided in the feasibility study.

SEC. 4105. USE OF PICK-SLOAN POWER.

    (a) In General.--From power designated for future irrigation and 
drainage pumping for the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin program, the Western 
Area Power Administration shall make available, at the firm power rate, 
the capacity and energy required to meet

[[Page 114 STAT. 581]]

the pumping and incidental operational requirements of the water supply 
project during the period beginning on May 1 and ending on October 31 of 
each year.
    (b) Qualification To Use Pick-Sloan Power.--For operation during the 
period beginning May 1 and ending October 31 of each year, for as long 
as the water supply system operates on a not-for-profit basis, the 
portions of the water supply project constructed with assistance under 
this title shall be eligible to receive firm power from the Pick-Sloan 
Missouri Basin program established by section 9 of the Act of December 
22, 1944 (chapter 665; 58 Stat. 887), popularly known as the Flood 
Control Act of 1944.

SEC. 4106. NO LIMITATION ON WATER PROJECTS IN STATES.

    This title does not limit the authorization for water projects in 
the States of South Dakota, Iowa, and Minnesota under law in effect on 
or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4107. WATER RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title--
            (1) invalidates or preempts State water law or an interstate 
        compact governing water;
            (2) alters the rights of any State to any appropriated share 
        of the waters of any body of surface or ground water, whether 
        determined by past or future interstate compacts or by past or 
        future legislative or final judicial allocations;
            (3) preempts or modifies any Federal or State law, or 
        interstate compact, governing water quality or disposal; or
            (4) confers on any non-Federal entity the ability to 
        exercise any Federal right to the waters of any stream or to any 
        ground water resource.

SEC. 4108. COST SHARING.

    (a) Federal Cost Share.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall provide funds equal to 80 percent of--
                    (A) the amount allocated in the total project 
                construction budget for planning and construction of the 
                water supply project under section 4103; and
                    (B) such amounts as are necessary to defray 
                increases in development costs reflected in appropriate 
                engineering cost indices after September 1, 1993.
            (2) Sioux falls.--The Secretary shall provide funds for the 
        City of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, in an amount equal to 50 
        percent of the incremental cost to the city of participation in 
        the project.

    (b) Non-Federal Cost Share.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        non-Federal share of the costs allocated to the water supply 
        system shall be 20 percent of the amounts described in 
        subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Sioux falls.--The non-Federal cost-share for the City of 
        Sioux Falls, South Dakota, shall be 50 percent of the 
        incremental cost to the city of participation in the project.

SEC. 4109. BUREAU OF RECLAMATION.

    (a) Authorization.--At the request of the water supply system, the 
Secretary may allow the Commissioner of Reclamation to provide project 
construction oversight to the water supply project for

[[Page 114 STAT. 582]]

the service area of the water supply system described in section 
4103(b).
    (b) Project Oversight Administration.--The amount of funds used by 
the Commissioner of Reclamation for oversight described in subsection 
(a) shall not exceed the amount that is equal to 1 percent of the amount 
provided in the total project construction budget for the entire project 
construction period.

SEC. 4110. PROJECT OWNERSHIP AND RESPONSIBILITY.

    The water supply system shall retain title to all project facilities 
during and after construction, and shall be responsible for all 
operation, maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation costs of the project.

SEC. 4111. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title 
$213,887,700, to remain available until expended.

                TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS THIS DIVISION

    Sec. 5101. No part of any appropriation contained in this division 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 5102. Sections 305 and 306 of H.R. 3425 of the 106th Congress, 
as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(5) of Public Law 106-
113, <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-306.>> are hereby repealed.

               repeal of unobligated balance restrictions

    Sec. 5103. The final proviso under the heading ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' in title VI of the Foreign Operations, Export 
Financing, and Related Programs as enacted into law by section 
1000(a)(2) of division B of Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-133), is 
null and void.
    Sec. 5104. Section 216 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 
(as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
113) <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-240.>> is repealed.

    Sec. 5105. Section 5527 of Public Law 105-33, The Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997, <<NOTE: 42 USC 909 note.>> is repealed.

    Sec. 5106. Section 9305 of Public Law 105-33 (111 Stat. 677) is 
repealed.
    Sec. 5107. Notwithstanding section 251(a) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, there shall be no 
sequestration under that section to eliminate a fiscal year 2000 breach 
or no reductions in discretionary spending limits for fiscal year 2001 
that might be caused by the appropriations or other provisions in this 
Act.
    Sec. 5108. (a) The enactment of this Act shall be deemed to fulfill 
the requirements for enactment of a law for purposes of section 206(b) 
of H. Con. Res. 290 (106th Congress).
    (b) Section 312(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 shall not 
apply in the Senate with respect to fiscal year 2001.
    Sec. 5109. Section 207 of H. Con. Res. 290 (106th Congress) is 
amended as follows:
            (1) by reducing the limit on outlays set forth in subsection 
        (a)(1) by $2,000,000,000; and
            (2) by increasing the limit on outlays set forth in 
        subsection (a)(2) by $2,000,000,000.

[[Page 114 STAT. 583]]

    This division may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental Act, 
2000''.

DIVISION <<NOTE: Cerro Grande Fire Supplemental. New Mexico.>> C--CERRO 
GRANDE FIRE

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes, namely:

 TITLE <<NOTE: Cerro Grande Fire Assistance Act.>> I--CERRO GRANDE FIRE 
ASSISTANCE ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Cerro Grande Fire Assistance Act''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) on May 4, 2000, the National Park Service initiated a 
        prescribed burn on Federal land at Bandelier National Monument 
        in New Mexico during the peak of the fire season in the 
        Southwest;
            (2) on May 5, 2000, the prescribed burn, which became known 
        as the ``Cerro Grande Prescribed Fire'', exceeded the 
        containment capabilities of the National Park Service, was 
        reclassified as a wildland burn, and spread to other Federal and 
        non-Federal land, quickly becoming characterized as a wildfire;
            (3) by May 7, 2000, the fire had grown in size and caused 
        evacuations in and around Los Alamos, New Mexico, including the 
        Los Alamos National Laboratory, one of the leading national 
        research laboratories in the United States and the birthplace of 
        the atomic bomb;
            (4) on May 13, 2000, the President issued a major disaster 
        declaration for the counties of Bernalillo, Cibola, Los Alamos, 
        McKinley, Mora, Rio Arriba, Sandoval, San Juan, San Miguel, 
        Santa Fe, Taos, and Torrance, New Mexico;
            (5) the fire resulted in the loss of Federal, State, local, 
        tribal, and private property;
            (6) the Secretary of the Interior and the National Park 
        Service have assumed responsibility for the fire and subsequent 
        losses of property; and
            (7) the United States should compensate the victims of the 
        Cerro Grande fire.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to compensate victims of the fire at Cerro Grande, New 
        Mexico, for injuries resulting from the fire; and
            (2) to provide for the expeditious consideration and 
        settlement of claims for those injuries.

SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Cerro grande fire.--The term ``Cerro Grande fire'' means 
        the fire resulting from the initiation by the National Park 
        Service of a prescribed burn at Bandelier National Monument, New 
        Mexico, on May 4, 2000.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means--
                    (A) the Director of the Federal Emergency Management 
                Agency; or

[[Page 114 STAT. 584]]

                    (B) if a Manager is appointed under section 
                104(a)(3), the Manager.
            (3) Injured person.--The term ``injured person'' means--
                    (A) an individual, regardless of the citizenship or 
                alien status of the individual; or
                    (B) an Indian tribe, corporation, tribal 
                corporation, partnership, company, association, insurer, 
                county, township, city, State, school district, or other 
                non-Federal entity (including a legal representative),
        that suffered injury resulting from the Cerro Grande fire.
            (4) Injury.--The term ``injury'' has the same meaning as the 
        term ``injury or loss of property, or personal injury or death'' 
        as used in section 1346(b)(1) of title 28, United States Code.
            (5) Manager.--The term ``Manager'' means an Independent 
        Claims Manager appointed under section 104(a)(3).
            (6) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the Office of Cerro 
        Grande Fire Claims established by section 104(a)(2).

SEC. 104. COMPENSATION FOR VICTIMS OF CERRO GRANDE FIRE.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Compensation.--Each injured person shall be entitled to 
        receive from the United States--
                    (A) compensation for injury suffered by the injured 
                person as a result of the Cerro Grande fire; and
                    (B) damages described in subsection (d)(4), as 
                determined by the Director.
            (2) Office of cerro grande fire claims.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established within the 
                Federal Emergency Management Agency an Office of Cerro 
                Grande Fire Claims.
                    (B) Purpose.--The Office shall receive, process, and 
                pay claims in accordance with this title.
                    (C) Funding.--The Office--
                          (i) shall be funded from funds made available 
                      to the Director under this title;
                          (ii) may reimburse other Federal agencies for 
                      claims processing support and assistance;
                          (iii) may appoint and fix the compensation of 
                      such temporary personnel as may be necessary, 
                      without regard to the provisions of title 5, 
                      United States Code, governing appointments in 
                      competitive service;
                          (iv) upon the request of the Director, the 
                      head of any Federal department or agency may 
                      detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the 
                      personnel of that department or agency to the 
                      Federal Emergency Management Agency to assist it 
                      in carrying out its duties under this title; and
                          (v) shall not diminish the ability of the 
                      Director to carry out the responsibilities of the 
                      Federal Emergency Management Agency under the 
                      Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                      Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), including 
                      the timely provision of disaster assistance to a 
                      State or territory, an area of which is the 
                      subject of a major disaster or emergency 
                      declaration made by the President during the 
                      period in which the Director carries out this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 585]]

            (3) Option to appoint independent claims manager.--The 
        Director may appoint an Independent Claims Manager to--
                    (A) head the Office; and
                    (B) assume the duties of the Director under this 
                title.

    (b) Submission of Claims.--Not later than 2 years after the date on 
which regulations are first promulgated under subsection (f ), an 
injured person may submit to the Director a written claim for one or 
more injuries suffered by the injured person in accordance with such 
requirements as the Director determines to be appropriate.
    (c) Investigation of Claims.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall, on behalf of the United 
        States, investigate, consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, 
        grant, deny, or settle any claim for money damages asserted 
        under subsection (b).
            (2) Applicability of state law.--Except as otherwise 
        provided in this title, the laws of the State of New Mexico 
        shall apply to the calculation of damages under subsection 
        (d)(4).
            (3) Extent of damages.--Any payment under this title--
                    (A) shall be limited to actual compensatory damages 
                measured by injuries suffered; and
                    (B) shall not include--
                          (i) interest before settlement or payment of a 
                      claim; or
                          (ii) punitive damages.

    (d) Payment of Claims.--
            (1) Determination and payment of amount.--
                    (A) In general.--
                          (i) Payment.--Not later than 180 days after 
                      the date on which a claim is submitted under this 
                      title, the Director shall determine and fix the 
                      amount, if any, to be paid for the claim.
                          (ii) Priority.--The Director, to the maximum 
                      extent practicable, shall pay subrogation claims 
                      submitted under this title only after paying 
                      claims submitted by injured parties that are not 
                      insurance companies seeking payment as subrogees.
                    (B) Parameters of determination.--In determining and 
                settling a claim under this title, the Director shall 
                determine only--
                          (i) whether the claimant is an injured person;
                          (ii) whether the injury that is the subject of 
                      the claim resulted from the fire;
                          (iii) the amount, if any, to be allowed and 
                      paid under this title; and
                          (iv) the person or persons entitled to receive 
                      the amount.
                    (C) Insurance and other benefits.--
                          (i) In general.--In determining the amount of, 
                      and paying, a claim under this title, to prevent 
                      recovery by a claimant in excess of actual 
                      compensatory damages, the Director shall reduce 
                      the amount to be paid for the claim by an amount 
                      that is equal to the total of insurance benefits 
                      (excluding life insurance benefits) or other 
                      payments or settlements of any nature that were 
                      paid, or will be paid, with respect to the claim.

[[Page 114 STAT. 586]]

                          (ii) Government loans.--This subparagraph 
                      shall not apply to the receipt by a claimant of 
                      any Government loan that is required to be repaid 
                      by the claimant.
            (2) Partial payment.--
                    (A) In general.--At the request of a claimant, the 
                Director may make one or more advance or partial 
                payments before the final settlement of a claim, 
                including final settlement on any portion or aspect of a 
                claim that is determined to be severable.
                    (B) Judicial decision.--If a claimant receives a 
                partial payment on a claim under this title, but further 
                payment on the claim is subsequently denied by the 
                Director, the claimant may--
                          (i) seek judicial review under subsection (i); 
                      and
                          (ii) keep any partial payment that the 
                      claimant received, unless the Director determines 
                      that the claimant--
                                    (I) was not eligible to receive the 
                                compensation; or
                                    (II) fraudulently procured the 
                                compensation.
            (3) Rights of insurer or other third party.--If an insurer 
        or other third party pays any amount to a claimant to compensate 
        for an injury described in subsection (a), the insurer or other 
        third party shall be subrogated to any right that the claimant 
        has to receive any payment under this title or any other law.
            (4) Allowable damages.--
                    (A) Loss of property.--A claim that is paid for loss 
                of property under this title may include otherwise 
                uncompensated damages resulting from the Cerro Grande 
                fire for--
                          (i) an uninsured or underinsured property 
                      loss;
                          (ii) a decrease in the value of real property;
                          (iii) damage to physical infrastructure;
                          (iv) a cost resulting from lost tribal 
                      subsistence from hunting, fishing, firewood 
                      gathering, timbering, grazing, or agricultural 
                      activities conducted on land damaged by the Cerro 
                      Grande fire;
                          (v) a cost of reforestation or revegetation on 
                      tribal or non-Federal land, to the extent that the 
                      cost of reforestation or revegetation is not 
                      covered by any other Federal program; and
                          (vi) any other loss that the Director 
                      determines to be appropriate for inclusion as loss 
                      of property.
                    (B) Business loss.--A claim that is paid for injury 
                under this title may include damages resulting from the 
                Cerro Grande fire for the following types of otherwise 
                uncompensated business loss:
                          (i) Damage to tangible assets or inventory.
                          (ii) Business interruption losses.
                          (iii) Overhead costs.
                          (iv) Employee wages for work not performed.
                          (v) Any other loss that the Director 
                      determines to be appropriate for inclusion as 
                      business loss.
                    (C) Financial loss.--A claim that is paid for injury 
                under this title may include damages resulting from the

[[Page 114 STAT. 587]]

                Cerro Grande fire for the following types of otherwise 
                uncompensated financial loss:
                          (i) Increased mortgage interest costs.
                          (ii) An insurance deductible.
                          (iii) A temporary living or relocation 
                      expense.
                          (iv) Lost wages or personal income.
                          (v) Emergency staffing expenses.
                          (vi) Debris removal and other cleanup costs.
                          (vii) Costs of reasonable efforts, as 
                      determined by the Director, to reduce the risk of 
                      wildfire, flood, or other natural disaster in the 
                      counties specified in section 102(a)(4), to risk 
                      levels prevailing in those counties before the 
                      Cerro Grande fire, that are incurred not later 
                      than the date that is 3 years after the date on 
                      which the regulations under subsection (f ) are 
                      first promulgated.
                          (viii) A premium for flood insurance that is 
                      required to be paid on or before May 12, 2002, if, 
                      as a result of the Cerro Grande fire, a person 
                      that was not required to purchase flood insurance 
                      before the Cerro Grande fire is required to 
                      purchase flood insurance.
                          (ix) Any other loss that the Director 
                      determines to be appropriate for inclusion as 
                      financial loss.

    (e) Acceptance of Award.--The acceptance by a claimant of any 
payment under this title, except an advance or partial payment made 
under subsection (d)(2), shall--
            (1) be final and conclusive on the claimant (but not on any 
        subrogee of the claimant), with respect to all claims arising 
        out of or relating to the same subject matter;
            (2) constitute a complete release of all claims against the 
        United States (including any agency or employee of the United 
        States) under chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), or any 
        other Federal or State law, arising out of or relating to the 
        same subject matter; and
            (3) shall include a certification by the claimant, made 
        under penalty of perjury and subject to the provisions of 
        section 1001 of title 18, United States Code, that such claim is 
        true and correct.

    (f ) Regulations and Public Information.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline. Federal Register, 
        publication.>> Regulations.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Director shall promulgate and publish in the 
        Federal Register interim final regulations for the processing 
        and payment of claims under this title.
            (2) Public information.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Publication.>> In general.--At the time 
                at which the Director promulgates regulations under 
                paragraph (1), the Director shall publish, in newspapers 
                of general circulation in the State of New Mexico, a 
                clear, concise, and easily understandable explanation, 
                in English and Spanish, of--
                          (i) the rights conferred under this title; and
                          (ii) the procedural and other requirements of 
                      the regulations promulgated under paragraph (1).
                    (B) Dissemination through other media.--The Director 
                shall disseminate the explanation published under

[[Page 114 STAT. 588]]

                subparagraph (A) through brochures, pamphlets, radio, 
                television, and other media that the Director determines 
                are likely to reach prospective claimants.

    (g) Consultation.--In administering this title, the Director shall 
consult with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Energy, the 
Secretary of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Small Business 
Administration, other Federal agencies, and State, local, and tribal 
authorities, as determined to be necessary by the Director to--
            (1) ensure the efficient administration of the claims 
        process; and
            (2) provide for local concerns.

    (h) Election of Remedy.--
            (1) In general.--An injured person may elect to seek 
        compensation from the United States for one or more injuries 
        resulting from the Cerro Grande fire by--
                    (A) submitting a claim under this title;
                    (B) filing a claim or bringing a civil action under 
                chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code; or
                    (C) bringing an authorized civil action under any 
                other provision of law.
            (2) Effect of election.--An election by an injured person to 
        seek compensation in any manner described in paragraph (1) shall 
        be final and conclusive on the claimant with respect to all 
        injuries resulting from the Cerro Grande fire that are suffered 
        by the claimant.
            (3) Arbitration.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline. Regulations.>> In general.--
                Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act, the Director shall establish by regulation 
                procedures under which a dispute regarding a claim 
                submitted under this title may be settled by 
                arbitration.
                    (B) Arbitration as remedy.--On establishment of 
                arbitration procedures under subparagraph (A), an 
                injured person that submits a disputed claim under this 
                title may elect to settle the claim through arbitration.
                    (C) Binding effect.--An election by an injured 
                person to settle a claim through arbitration under this 
                paragraph shall--
                          (i) be binding; and
                          (ii) preclude any exercise by the injured 
                      person of the right to judicial review of a claim 
                      described in subsection (i).
            (4) No effect on entitlements.--Nothing in this title 
        affects any right of a claimant to file a claim for benefits 
        under any Federal entitlement program.

    (i) Judicial Review.--
            (1) In general.--Any claimant aggrieved by a final decision 
        of the Director under this title may, not later than 60 days 
        after the date on which the decision is issued, bring a civil 
        action in the United States District Court for the District of 
        New Mexico, to modify or set aside the decision, in whole or in 
        part.
            (2) Record.--The court shall hear a civil action under 
        paragraph (1) on the record made before the Director.
            (3) Standard.--The decision of the Director incorporating 
        the findings of the Director shall be upheld if the decision

[[Page 114 STAT. 589]]

        is supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as 
        a whole.

    ( j) Attorney's and Agent's Fees.--
            (1) In general.--No attorney or agent, acting alone or in 
        combination with any other attorney or agent, shall charge, 
        demand, receive, or collect, for services rendered in connection 
        with a claim submitted under this title, fees in excess of 10 
        percent of the amount of any payment on the claim.
            (2) Violation.--An attorney or agent who violates paragraph 
        (1) shall be fined not more than $10,000.

    (k) Waiver of Requirement For Matching Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        a State or local project that is determined by the Director to 
        be carried out in response to the Cerro Grande fire under any 
        Federal program that applies to an area affected by the Cerro 
        Grande fire shall not be subject to any requirement for State or 
        local matching funds to pay the cost of the project under the 
        Federal program.
            (2) Federal share.--The Federal share of the costs of a 
        project described in paragraph (1) shall be 100 percent.

    (l) Applicability of Debt Collection Requirements.--Section 3716 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall not apply to any payment under this 
title.
    (m) Indian Compensation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, in the case of an Indian tribe, a tribal entity, or a member of an 
Indian tribe that submits a claim under this title--
            (1) the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall have no authority 
        over, or any trust obligation regarding, any aspect of the 
        submission of, or any payment received for, the claim;
            (2) the Indian tribe, tribal entity, or member of an Indian 
        tribe shall be entitled to proceed under this title in the same 
        manner and to the same extent as any other injured person; and
            (3) except with respect to land damaged by the Cerro Grande 
        fire that is the subject of the claim, the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs shall have no responsibility to restore land damaged by 
        the Cerro Grande fire.

    (n) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Report.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of promulgation of regulations under subsection (f )(1), and 
annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to Congress a report that 
describes the claims submitted under this title during the year 
preceding the date of submission of the report, including, for each 
claim--
            (1) the amount claimed;
            (2) a brief description of the nature of the claim;
            (3) the status or disposition of the claim, including the 
        amount of any payment under this title; and
            (4) the Comptroller General shall conduct an annual audit on 
        the payment of all claims made under this title and shall report 
        to the Congress on the results of this audit beginning not later 
        than the expiration of the 1-year period beginning on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act. This report shall include a review 
        of all subrogation claims for which insurance companies have 
        been paid or are seeking payment as subrogees under this title.

    (o) Authorization of Appropriations.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 590]]

            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
        necessary to carry out this Act, to remain available until 
        expended.
            (2) FEMA funds.--None of the funds provided to the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency for the administration of disaster 
        relief shall be used to carry out this Act.

SEC. 105. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.

    (a) Cerro Grande Fire Assistance Claims Office.--
            (1) In general.--There is appropriated for the Office for 
        administration of the compensation process under this title up 
        to $45,000,000, to remain available until expended.
            (2) Emergency requirement.--The entire amount made available 
        under subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) shall be available only to the extent that the 
                President submits to Congress an official budget request 
                for up to $45,000,000 that includes designation of the 
                entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement 
                for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
                Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.); and
                    (B) is designated by Congress as an emergency 
                requirement under section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
                Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
                U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)).

    (b) Cerro Grande Fire Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--There is appropriated for the payment of 
        claims in accordance with this title up to $455,000,000, to 
        remain available until expended.
            (2) Emergency requirement.--The entire amount made available 
        under subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) shall be available only to the extent that the 
                President submits to Congress an official budget request 
                for up to $455,000,000 that includes designation of the 
                entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement 
                for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
                Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.); and
                    (B) is designated by Congress as an emergency 
                requirement under section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
                Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
                U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)).

SEC. 106. PERIOD OF EFFECTIVENESS.

    This <<NOTE: Applicability.>> title shall apply on and after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, without regard to any fiscal year.

    TITLE II--CERRO GRANDE FIRE EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for ``Emergency Conservation Program'', 
$10,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
these funds shall be available to rehabilitate

[[Page 114 STAT. 591]]

farmland damaged from fires which resulted from prescribed burnings 
conducted by the Federal Government which subsequently resulted in 
unintended damage to farmlands and other lands: Provided further, That 
requirements for cost-sharing by landowners shall not apply to funds 
provided pursuant to this section: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for $10,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'', for the Emergency Watershed Protection Program, to repair 
damages to the waterways and watersheds resulting from fires which 
resulted from prescribed burnings conducted by the Federal Government, 
and other natural occurrences, $4,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That requirements for cost-sharing by project 
sponsors shall not apply to funds provided under this provision: 
Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only to the 
extent an official budget request for $4,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                      cerro grande fire activities

    For necessary expenses to remediate damaged Department of Energy 
facilities and for other expenses associated with the Cerro Grande fire, 
$138,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $138,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 592]]

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$8,982,000, to remain available until expended, for emergency 
restoration, rehabilitation, and reforestation of tribal lands and 
facilities of the Pueblo of Santa Clara and the Pueblo of San Ildefonso 
damaged by the Cerro Grande Fire in New Mexico: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget 
request for $8,982,000, that includes designation of the entire amount 
of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                      GENERAL PROVISION--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 2101. The Secretary of the Interior shall allow enrolled 
members of the Pueblo of San Ildefonso and the Pueblo of Santa Clara to 
collect plants, including the parts or products thereof, and mineral 
resources within the Bandelier National Monument for traditional and 
cultural uses. All collection activity, except quantity limitations in 
current regulations of the National Park Service, shall be consistent 
with applicable laws, and shall be subject to such conditions as the 
Secretary deems necessary to protect the resources and values of the 
Monument.
    This division may be cited as the ``Cerro Grande Fire 
Supplemental''.

    Approved July 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4425 (S. 2521):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-614 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-710
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-290 accompanying S. 2521 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            May 16, considered and passed House.
            May 18, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of S. 
                2521.
            June 29, House agreed to conference report.
            June 30, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            July 13, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>