[106th Congress Public Law 58]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ058.106]


[[Page 429]]

        TREASURY AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000

[[Page 113 STAT. 430]]

Public Law 106-58
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
   Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and 
      for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 29, 1999 -  [H.R. 2490]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Treasury and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2000.>> That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes, namely:

 TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE <<NOTE: Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 2000.>> TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$150,000 for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to 
be allocated and expended under the direction of the Secretary of the 
Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his certificate, 
$134,034,000.

        Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$43,961,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to 
satisfy the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
organizations: Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated shall be used to 
support or supplement the Internal Revenue Service appropriations for 
Information Systems.

[[Page 113 STAT. 431]]

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury, 
$30,716,000.

                Inspector General for Tax Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for 
police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not to 
exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; and not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $112,207,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury Building 
and Annex, $23,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $27,818,000, of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure 
personal services contracts.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, as follows:
            (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $119,000,000; of 
        which $27,920,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, 
        Tobacco and Firearms, including $3,000,000 for administering the 
        Gang Resistance Education and Training program; of which

[[Page 113 STAT. 432]]

        $4,200,000 shall be available to the United States Secret 
        Service for forensic and related support of investigations of 
        missing and exploited children, of which $2,200,000 shall be 
        available as a grant for activities related to the 
        investigations of exploited children and shall remain available 
        until expended; of which $61,000,000 shall be available for the 
        United States Customs Service; of which $1,863,000 shall be 
        available for the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network; of which 
        $9,200,000 shall be available to the Federal Law Enforcement 
        Training Center; and of which $14,817,000 shall be available for 
        Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement.
            (2) As authorized by section 32401, $13,000,000 to the 
        Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement through 
        grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts to local 
        governments for Gang Resistance Education and Training: 
        Provided, That notwithstanding sections 32401 and 310001, such 
        funds shall be allocated to State and local law enforcement and 
        prevention organizations.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
for expenses for student athletic and related activities; uniforms 
without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current 
fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches and 
presentation of awards; for public awareness and enhancing community 
support of law enforcement training; not to exceed $9,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; room and board for student 
interns; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $84,027,000, of 
which up to $16,511,000 for materials and support costs of Federal law 
enforcement basic training shall remain available until September 30, 
2002: Provided, That <<NOTE: 42 USC 3771 note.>> the Center is 
authorized to accept and use gifts of property, both real and personal, 
and to accept services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a 
gift of intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director 
of the Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic 
training program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which 
shall be funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift 
authority: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for the following: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation, except that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary 
for law enforcement

[[Page 113 STAT. 433]]

training activities in foreign countries undertaken pursuant to section 
801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, Public 
Law 104-32; training of private sector security officials on a space-
available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training sponsored by the Center: 
Provided further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from agencies receiving training 
sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, except that 
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide training for the Gang Resistance Education and Training 
program to Federal and non-Federal personnel at any facility in 
partnership with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide short-term medical services for students undergoing training 
at the Center.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$21,611,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the detection and investigation of 
individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including 
cooperative efforts with State and local law enforcement, $61,083,000, 
of which $7,827,000 shall remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$201,320,000, of which not to exceed $10,635,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002, for information systems modernization 
initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 812 vehicles for police-
type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; services of expert witnesses 
at such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per 
diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to 
the National Response Team during the

[[Page 113 STAT. 434]]

investigation of a bombing or arson incident requires an employee to 
work 16 hours or more per day or to remain overnight at his or her post 
of duty; not to exceed $15,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; for training of State and local law enforcement agencies with 
or without reimbursement, including training in connection with the 
training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants 
detection; and provision of laboratory assistance to State and local 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $565,959,000, of which 
$39,000,000 may be used for the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction Initiative; 
of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of 
attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the equipping of any vessel, vehicle, 
equipment, or aircraft available for official use by a State or local 
law enforcement agency if the conveyance will be used in joint law 
enforcement operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
and for the payment of overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, 
equipment, supplies, and other similar costs of State and local law 
enforcement personnel, including sworn officers and support personnel, 
that are incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms: Provided, That no funds made available by this or 
any other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other 
agencies or Departments in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That no 
funds appropriated herein shall be available for salaries or 
administrative expenses in connection with consolidating or 
centralizing, within the Department of the Treasury, the records, or any 
portion thereof, of acquisition and disposition of firearms maintained 
by Federal firearms licensees: Provided further, That no funds 
appropriated herein shall be used to pay administrative expenses or the 
compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to 
implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the 
definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item 
from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 1, 1994: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be available 
to investigate or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds 
shall be available to investigate and act upon applications filed by 
corporations for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That no funds in this Act may be used 
to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any one installation or site 
of a State or local authority who has obtained similar equipment through 
a Federal grant or subsidy unless the State or local authority agrees in 
writing to the original grantor to return that equipment or to repay 
that grant or subsidy to the Federal Government: Provided further, That 
no funds under this Act may be used to electronically retrieve 
information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or any 
personal identification code.

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 550 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for

[[Page 113 STAT. 435]]

police-type use and commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; 
contracting with individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed 
$40,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and awards 
of compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service, $1,705,364,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to 
section 13031(f )(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act of 1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f )(3)), shall be derived from 
that Account; of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available 
for payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations; 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research, 
of which $725,000 shall be provided to a northern plains agricultural 
economics program in North and/or South Dakota to conduct a research 
program on the bilateral United States/Canadian bilateral trade of 
agricultural commodities and products; of which not less than $100,000 
shall be available to promote public awareness of the child pornography 
tipline; of which not less than $200,000 shall be available for Project 
Alert; not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081; not to exceed 
$8,000,000 shall be available until expended for the procurement of 
automation infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and 
installation; and not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until 
expended for repairs to Customs facilities: Provided, That uniforms may 
be purchased without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year: Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the fiscal year aggregate overtime limitation 
prescribed in subsection 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 
U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall be $30,000.

                    harbor maintenance fee collection

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

  operation, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction programs, the 
operations of which include the following: the interdiction of narcotics 
and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and other Federal, 
State, and local agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws 
enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the discretion of the 
Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance to Federal, State, 
and local agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian 
efforts,

[[Page 113 STAT. 436]]

$108,688,000, which shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That no aircraft or other related equipment, with the exception of 
aircraft which is one of a kind and has been identified as excess to 
Customs requirements and aircraft which has been damaged beyond repair, 
shall be transferred to any other Federal agency, department, or office 
outside of the Department of the Treasury, during fiscal year 2000 
without the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

                      administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $182,219,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
systems modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein from 
the General Fund for fiscal year 2000 shall be reduced by not more than 
$4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2000 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$177,819,000, and in addition, $20,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and 
personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as authorized 
by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for tax 
returns processing; revenue accounting; tax law and account assistance 
to taxpayers by telephone and correspondence; programs to match 
information returns and tax returns; management services; rent and 
utilities; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Commissioner, $3,312,535,000, of which up to 
$3,950,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, and 
of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                           tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; issuing technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement 
activities; securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; 
compiling statistics of income and conducting compliance research; 
purchase (for police-type use, not to exceed 850) and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the Commissioner, 
$3,336,838,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002, for research, and of which not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses 
associated with hosting the Inter-American Center of Tax Administration 
(CIAT) 2000 Conference.

[[Page 113 STAT. 437]]

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $144,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997.

                           information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,455,401,000 which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001.

           administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Sec. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be transferred 
to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
     Sec. 102. <<NOTE: 26 USC 7803 note.>> The Internal Revenue Service 
shall maintain a training program to ensure that Internal Revenue 
Service employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing 
courteously with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Confidentiality. 26 USC 6103 note.>> The Internal 
Revenue Service shall institute and enforce policies and procedures that 
will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer information.

    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Communications and tele- communications.>> Funds 
made available by this or any other Act to the Internal Revenue Service 
shall be available for improved facilities and increased manpower to 
provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line service for taxpayers. 
The Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement of the Internal 
Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and allocate 
resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff to improve the 
Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.

    Sec. 105. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation Division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigators in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 777 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 739 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership

[[Page 113 STAT. 438]]

or control, as may be necessary to perform protective functions; for 
payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a 
protective assignment during the actual day or days of the visit of a 
protectee require an employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain 
overnight at his or her post of duty; the conducting of and 
participating in firearms matches; presentation of awards; for travel of 
Secret Service employees on protective missions without regard to the 
limitations on such expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is 
obtained in advance from the Committees on Appropriations; for research 
and development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in 
support of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 to 
provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement 
organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in advance for 
commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective 
functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year, $667,312,000: Provided, That up 
to $18,000,000 provided for protective travel shall remain available 
until September 30, 2001.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $4,923,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary of the 
Treasury in connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal 
agency or a Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances 
remaining in the Fund on September 30, 2000, shall be made in compliance 
with reprogramming guidelines.
     Sec. 111. <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Appropriations to the Department of 
the Treasury in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, 
repairs, and cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles 
operated in foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard 
to the general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and 
used overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with 
the Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical 
services to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; 
and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

     Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 2000 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
     Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 
United States Customs Service, and United

[[Page 113 STAT. 439]]

States Secret Service may be transferred between such appropriations 
upon the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector General, 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Financial Management 
Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. Of the funds available for the purchase of law enforcement 
vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of the Treasury 
certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury bureau is 
consistent with Departmental vehicle management principles: Provided, 
That the Secretary may delegate this authority to the Assistant 
Secretary for Management.
    Sec. 116. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5597 note.>> (a) Voluntary Separation 
Incentive Payments for Employees of the Office of the Treasury Inspector 
General for Tax Administration.--During the period from October 1, 1999 
through January 1, 2003, the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration is authorized to offer voluntary separation incentives in 
order to provide the necessary flexibility to carry out the plan to 
establish and reorganize the Office of the Treasury Inspector General 
for Tax Administration (referred to in this section as the ``Office'').

    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``employee'' means an 
employee (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105) who is employed by the Office 
serving under an appointment without time limitation, and has been 
currently employed by the Office or the Internal Revenue Service or the 
Office of Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury for a 
continuous period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
            (1) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system;
            (2) an employee having a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under the applicable retirement system referred to in paragraph 
        (1);
            (3) an employee who is in receipt of a specific notice of 
        involuntary separation for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            (4) an employee who has previously received any voluntary 
        separation incentive payment by the Federal Government under 
        this section or any other authority and has not repaid such 
        payment;
            (5) an employee covered by statutory reemployment rights who 
        is on transfer to another organization; or
            (6) any employee who, during the 24-month period preceding 
        the date of separation, has received a recruitment or relocation 
        bonus under 5 U.S.C. 5753 or who, within the 12-month period 
        preceding the date of separation, received a retention allowance 
        under 5 U.S.C. 5754.

    (c) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--

[[Page 113 STAT. 440]]

            (1) In general.--The Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
        Administration may pay voluntary separation incentive payments 
        under this section to any employee to the extent necessary to 
        organize the Office so as to perform the duties specified in the 
        Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 
        (Public Law 105-206).
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the employee's 
                separation;
                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations available for 
                the payment of the basic pay of the employees of the 
                Office;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                          (i) an amount equal to the amount the employee 
                      would be entitled to receive under 5 U.S.C. 
                      5595(c); or
                          (ii) an amount determined by the Treasury 
                      Inspector General for Tax Administration, not to 
                      exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may not be made except in the case of any 
                qualifying employee who voluntarily separates (whether 
                by retirement or resignation) before January 1, 2003;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under 5 U.S.C. 5595 based on any other 
                separation.

    (d) Additional Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
        chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the Office shall 
        remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the 
        Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil Service 
        Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 percent of 
        the final basic pay of each employee who is covered under 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United 
        States Code, to whom a voluntary separation incentive has been 
        paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--In paragraph (1), the term ``final basic 
        pay'', with respect to an employee, means the total amount of 
        basic pay which would be payable for a year of service by such 
        employee, computed using the employee's final rate of basic pay, 
        and, if last serving on other than a full-time basis, with 
        appropriate adjustment therefor.

    (e) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--An 
individual who has received a voluntary separation incentive payment 
under this section and accepts any employment for compensation with the 
United States Government, or who works for any agency of the United 
States Government through a personal services contract, within 5 years 
after the date of the separation on which the payment is based, shall be 
required to pay, prior

[[Page 113 STAT. 441]]

to the individual's first day of employment, the entire amount of the 
incentive payment to the Office.
    (f ) Effect on Office of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration Employment Levels.--
            (1) Intended effect.--Voluntary separations under this 
        section are not intended to necessarily reduce the total number 
        of full-time equivalent positions in the Office.
            (2) Use of voluntary separations.--The Office may redeploy 
        or use the full-time equivalent positions vacated by voluntary 
        separations under this section to make other positions available 
        to more critical locations or more critical occupations.

    Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 118. Funds made available by this or any other Act may be used 
to pay premium pay for protective services authorized by section 3056(a) 
of title 18, United States Code, without regard to the limitation on the 
rate of pay payable during a pay period contained in section 5547(c)(2) 
of title 5, United States Code, except that such premium pay shall not 
be payable to an employee to the extent that the aggregate of the 
employee's basic and premium pay for the year would otherwise exceed the 
annual equivalent of that limitation. The term premium pay refers to the 
provisions of law cited in the first sentence of section 5547(a) of 
title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5597 note.>> (a) Voluntary Separation 
Incentive payments for Employees of the Chicago Financial Center of the 
Financial Management Service.--During the period from October 1, 1999, 
through January 31, 2000, the Commissioner of the Financial Management 
Service (FMS) of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to offer 
voluntary separation incentives in order to provide the necessary 
flexibility to carry out the closure of the Chicago Financial Center 
(CFC) in a manner which the Commissioner shall deem most efficient, 
equitable to employees, and cost effective to the Government.

    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``employee'' means an 
employee (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105) who is employed by FMS at CFC 
under an appointment without time limitation, and has been so employed 
continuously for a period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
            (1) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system;
            (2) an employee with a disability on the basis of which such 
        employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement under 
        the retirement systems referred to in paragraph (1) or another 
        retirement system for employees of the Government;
            (3) an employee who is in receipt of a specific notice of 
        involuntary separation for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            (4) an employee who has previously received any voluntary 
        separation incentive payment from an agency or instrumentality 
        of the Government of the United States under any authority and 
        has not repaid such payment;

[[Page 113 STAT. 442]]

            (5) an employee covered by statutory reemployment rights who 
        is on transfer to another organization; or
            (6) an employee who during the 24-month period preceding the 
        date of separation has received and not repaid a recruitment or 
        relocation bonus under section 5753 of title 5, United States 
        Code, or who, within the 12-month period preceding the date of 
        separation, has received and not repaid a retention allowance 
        under section 5754 of that title.

    (c) Agency Plan; Approval.--
            (1) The Secretary, Department of the Treasury, prior to 
        obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive 
        payments, shall submit to the Office of Management and Budget a 
        strategic plan outlining the intended use of such incentive 
        payments and a proposed organizational chart for the agency once 
        such incentive payments have been completed.
            (2) The agency's plan under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) the specific positions and functions to be 
                reduced or eliminated;
                    (B) a proposed coverage for offers of incentives;
                    (C) the time period during which incentives may be 
                paid;
                    (D) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered; and
                    (E) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions.
            (3) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall review the agency's plan and approve or disapprove such 
        plan, and may make appropriate modifications in the plan 
        including waivers of the reduction in agency employment levels 
        required by this Act.

    (d) Authority To Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) A voluntary separation incentive payment under this Act 
        may be paid by the agency head to an employee only in accordance 
        with the strategic plan under subsection (c).
            (2) A voluntary incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be offered to agency employees on the 
                basis of organizational unit, occupational series or 
                level, geographic location, other nonpersonal factors, 
                or an appropriate combination of such factors;
                    (B) shall be paid in a lump sum after the employee's 
                separation;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                          (i) an amount equal to the amount the employee 
                      would be entitled to receive under section 5595(c) 
                      of title 5, United States Code, if the employee 
                      were entitled to payment under such section 
                      (without adjustment for any previous payment 
                      made); or
                          (ii) an amount determined by the agency head, 
                      not to exceed $25,000;
                    (D) may be made only in the case of an employee who 
                voluntarily separates (whether by retirement or 
                resignation) under the provisions of this Act;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation of any other type of 
                Government benefit;

[[Page 113 STAT. 443]]

                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation; and
                    (G) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employee.

    (e) Eligibility for Payments.--Payments under this section may be 
made to any qualifying employee who voluntarily separates, whether by 
retirement or resignation, between October 1, 1999, and January 31, 
2000.
    (f ) Effect on Subsequent Employment With the Government.--
            (1) An individual who has received a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section and accepts any employment 
        for compensation with any agency or instrumentality of the 
        Government of the United States, or who works for an agency of 
        the United States Government through a personal services 
        contract, within 5 years after the date of the separation on 
        which the payment is based shall be required to pay, prior to 
        the individual's first day of employment, the entire amount of 
        the incentive payment to FMS.
            (2) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management may, 
        at the request of the Secretary, Department of the Treasury, 
        waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique 
        abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the 
        position.

    (g) Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In addition to any other payments which it is required 
        to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5, United States Code, FMS shall remit to the Office of 
        Personnel Management for deposit in the Treasury to the credit 
        of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to 15 percent of the final annual basic pay for each 
        employee covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code, to whom a voluntary 
        separation incentive has been paid under this section.
            (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term ``final basic 
        pay'' with respect to an employee, means the total amount of 
        basic pay which would be payable for a year of service by such 
        employee, computed using the employee's final rate of basic pay, 
        and, if last serving on other than a full-time basis, with 
        appropriate adjustment therefor.

    (h) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) The total number of funded employee positions in the 
        agency shall be reduced by one position for each vacancy created 
        by the separation of any employee who has received, or is due to 
        receive, a voluntary separation incentive payment under this 
        Act. For the purposes of this subsection, positions shall be 
        counted on a full-time equivalent basis.
            (2) <<NOTE: President.>> The President, through the Office 
        of Management and Budget, shall monitor the agency and take any 
        action necessary to ensure that the requirements of this 
        subsection are met.
            (3) At the request of the Secretary, Department of the 
        Treasury, the Office of Management and Budget may waive the 
        reduction in total number of funded employee positions required 
        by paragraph (1) if it believes the agency plan required

[[Page 113 STAT. 444]]

        by subsection (c) satisfactorily demonstrates that the positions 
        would better be used to reallocate occupations or reshape the 
        workforce and to produce a more cost-effective result.

    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

      TITLE II--POSTAL <<NOTE: Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2000.>> SERVICE

                   Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $93,436,000, of which $64,436,000 
shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 2000: Provided, 
That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to 
be <<NOTE: 39 USC 403 note.>> free: Provided further, That 6-day 
delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 
1983 level: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
the Postal Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, 
regulation, or policy of charging any officer or employee of any State 
or local child support enforcement agency, or any individual 
participating in a State or local program of child support enforcement, 
a fee for information requested or provided concerning an address of a 
postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in 
this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural and other 
small post offices in fiscal year 2000.

    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2000''.

   TITLE III--EXECUTIVE <<NOTE: Executive Office Appropriations Act, 
2000.>> OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                      compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102, $250,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>> That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be expended for any other purpose 
and any unused amount shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 
1552 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available for official expenses shall be considered as 
taxable to the President.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, periodicals, 
teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 to be expended 
and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed 
$19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President, $52,444,000: 
Provided, That $10,313,000

[[Page 113 STAT. 445]]

of the funds appropriated shall be available for reimbursements to the 
White House Communications Agency.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $9,260,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                          reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount for 
reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during 
such <<NOTE: Notice. Deadlines.>> fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the Executive Residence shall ensure that a written notice of any amount 
owed for a reimbursable operating expense under this paragraph is 
submitted to the person owing such amount within 60 days after such 
expense is incurred, and that such amount is collected within 30 days 
after the submission of such notice: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall charge interest and assess penalties and other 
charges on any such amount that is not reimbursed within such 30 days, 
in accordance with the interest and penalty provisions applicable to an 
outstanding debt on a United States Government claim under section 3717 
of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That each such amount 
that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and charges, shall be 
deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> That the Executive Residence shall 
prepare and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later 
than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a 
report setting forth the reimbursable operating expenses of the 
Executive Residence during the preceding fiscal year, including the 
total amount of such expenses, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable official and ceremonial events, the amount of such total 
that consists of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each 
such amount that has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Records.>> That the Executive Residence shall 
maintain a system for the tracking of expenses related to reimbursable 
events within the Executive Residence that

[[Page 113 STAT. 446]]

includes a standard for the classification of any such expense as 
political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no provision of this 
paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive Residence from any 
other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of 
title 31, United States Code.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $810,000, to remain available until 
expended for required maintenance, safety and health issues, and 
continued preventative maintenance.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $3,617,000.

                           operating expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate, $345,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisors in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021), $3,840,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, 
$4,032,000.

                        National Security Council

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,997,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 447]]

                        Office of Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $39,198,000, of which $8,806,000 shall be 
available for a capital investment plan which provides for the continued 
modernization of the information technology infrastructure.

                     Office of Management and Budget

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $63,495,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the 
provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for 
the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except 
for testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, 
before the Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' 
Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided further, That the preceding 
shall not apply to printed hearings released by the Committees on 
Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (title VII of division C of 
Public Law 105-277); not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in 
the provision of services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, 
research, or public organizations or agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $22,951,000, of which $1,100,000 shall be available for 
policy research and evaluation, of which $1,000,000 shall be available 
for the National Alliance for Model State Drug Laws, and of which up to 
$600,000 shall be available for the evaluation of the Drug-
Free <<NOTE: 21 USC 1702 note.>> Communities Act: Provided, That the 
Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, 
both real and personal, public and private, without fiscal year 
limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of 
the <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Office: Provided further, That of the amounts 
appropriated

[[Page 113 STAT. 448]]

for salaries and expenses, $125,000 shall be transferred to the General 
Accounting Office for the sole purpose of entering into a contract with 
the private sector for a management review of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy.

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (title VII of Division C of 
Public Law 105-277), $29,250,000, which shall remain available until 
expended, consisting of $16,000,000 for counternarcotics research and 
development projects, and $13,250,000 for the continued operation of the 
technology transfer program: Provided, That the $16,000,000 for 
counternarcotics research and development projects shall be available 
for transfer to other Federal departments or agencies.

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $192,000,000 for 
drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for each 
of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which no 
less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local entities 
for drug control activities, which shall be obligated within 120 days of 
the date of the enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 percent 
may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be 
determined by the Director: Provided further, That, of this latter 
amount, $1,800,000 shall be used for auditing <<NOTE: 21 USC 1706 
note.>> services: Provided further, That, hereafter, of the amount 
appropriated for fiscal year 2000 or any succeeding fiscal year for the 
High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, the funds to be obligated 
or expended during such fiscal year for programs addressing the 
treatment or prevention of drug use as part of the approved strategy for 
a designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) shall not be 
less than the funds obligated or expended for such programs during 
fiscal year 1999 for each designated HIDTA without the prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds shall be 
provided for existing High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas at no less 
than the total fiscal year 1999 level.

                         special forfeiture fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 105-277, $216,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such funds may be 
transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to carry out such 
activities: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $185,000,000 
shall be to support a national

[[Page 113 STAT. 449]]

media campaign, as authorized in the Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 
1998: Provided further, That of the amounts provided for the Drug-Free 
Media Campaign, 10 percent shall not be available for obligation until 
ONDCP submits a corporate sponsorship plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$30,000,000 shall be to continue a program of matching grants to drug-
free communities, as authorized in the Drug-Free Communities Act of 
1997: Provided further, That of the funds provided, $1,000,000 shall be 
available to the Director for transfer as grants to State and local 
agencies or non-profit organizations for the National Drug Court 
Institute.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year, as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

 TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT <<NOTE: Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2000.>> AGENCIES

  Committee for Purchase From People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 1971, 
Public Law 92-28, $2,674,000.

                       Federal Election Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $38,152,000, of which no less 
than $4,866,500 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available 
for reception and representation expenses.

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, $23,828,000: Provided, That public members of 
the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per 
diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for 
persons employed intermittently in the Government service, and 
compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-
Federal participants at labor-management relations conferences

[[Page 113 STAT. 450]]

shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be available 
without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these 
conferences.

                     General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including rescission of funds)

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to section 
210(f ) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 
as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f )), the revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real property 
management and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased 
buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including space 
adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection 
with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual 
services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair 
and alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, 
approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for public 
buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase contract; in the 
aggregate amount of $5,342,416,000, of which: (1) $74,979,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction of additional projects 
at locations and at maximum construction improvement costs (including 
funds for sites and expenses and associated design and construction 
services) as follows:
    New construction:
            Maryland:
                    Montgomery County, FDA Consolidation, $35,000,000
            Michigan:
                    Sault Sainte Marie, Border Station, $8,263,000
            Montana:
                    Roosville, Border Station, $753,000
                    Sweetgrass, Border Station, $11,480,000
            Texas:
                    Fort Hancock, Border Station, $277,000
            Washington:
                    Oroville, Border Station, $11,206,000
            Nationwide:
                    Non-prospectus, $8,000,000:

Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 percent unless 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a 
greater amount: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> all 
funds

[[Page 113 STAT. 451]]

for direct construction projects shall expire on September 30, 2001, and 
remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except for funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in 
part prior to such date: Provided further, That of the amount provided 
under this heading in Public Law 104-208, $20,782,000 are rescinded and 
shall remain in the Fund; (2) $598,674,000 shall remain available until 
expended for repairs and alterations which includes associated design 
and construction services, of which $333,000,000 shall be available for 
basic repairs and alterations: Provided further, That funds made 
available in any previous Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs 
and Alterations shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
identified for each project, except each project in any previous Act may 
be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 percent unless advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater 
amount: Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior 
Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated 
with implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet 
the minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', 
may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund 
authorized increases in prospectus <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> projects: 
Provided further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus 
projects shall expire on September 30, 2001, and remain in the Federal 
Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or 
other funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects: Provided further, That the General Services Administration is 
directed to use funds available for Repairs and Alterations to undertake 
the first construction phase of the project to renovate the Department 
of the Interior Headquarters Building located in Washington, D.C.; (3) 
$205,668,000 for installment acquisition payments including payments on 
purchase contracts which shall remain available until expended; (4) 
$2,782,186,000 for rental of space which shall remain available until 
expended; and (5) $1,580,909,000 for building operations which shall 
remain available until expended, of which $475,000 shall be available 
for the Plains States De-population Symposium and of which $1,974,000 
shall be available until expended for acquisition, lease, construction, 
and equipping of flexiplace telecommuting centers: Provided further, 
That funds available to the General Services Administration shall not be 
available for expenses of any construction, repair, alteration and 
acquisition project for which a prospectus, if required by the Public 
Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been approved, except that 
necessary funds may be expended for each project for required expenses 
for the development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That 
funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for 
emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts necessary

[[Page 113 STAT. 452]]

to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies under section 
210(f )(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f )(6)) and amounts to provide such 
reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on 
private or other property not in Government ownership or control as may 
be appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from 
such revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues and 
collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 
2000, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f )(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f )(6)) 
in excess of $5,342,416,000 shall remain in the Fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                          policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide 
responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $116,223,000, of which 
$12,758,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated from this Act shall be available to convert 
the Old Post Office at 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue in Northwest Washington, 
D.C., from office use to any other use until a comprehensive plan, which 
shall include street-level retail use, has been approved by the Senate 
Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public 
Works: Provided further, That no funds from this Act shall be available 
to acquire by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise the leasehold rights 
of the existing lease with private parties at the Old Post Office prior 
to the approval of the comprehensive plan by the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations, the House Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public 
Works.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,317,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of

[[Page 113 STAT. 453]]

efforts and initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector 
General effectiveness.

            allowances and office staff for former presidents

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,241,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of such Acts.

           General Services Administration--General Provisions

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2000 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall be 
approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2001 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the priorities 
of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out in its 
approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal year 2001 
request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom utilization 
study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance of 
pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the 
extent feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct

[[Page 113 STAT. 454]]

construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 408. Funds made available for new construction projects under 
the heading ``Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of 
Revenue'' in Public Law 104-208 shall remain available until expended so 
long as funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or 
in part prior to September 30, 1999.
    Sec. 409. <<NOTE: Federal buildings and facilities.>> The Federal 
building located at 220 East Rosser Avenue in Bismarck, North Dakota, is 
hereby designated as the ``William L. Guy Federal Building, Post Office 
and United States Courthouse''. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
document, paper or other record of the United States to the Federal 
building herein referred to shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``William L. Guy Federal Building, Post Office and United States 
Courthouse''.

    Sec. 410. Conveyance <<NOTE: District of Columbia. Notice.>> of Land 
to the Columbia Hospital For Women. (a) Administrator of General 
Services.--Upon receipt of written notice and the consideration 
specified herein from the Columbia Hospital for Women (formerly Columbia 
Hospital for Women and Lying-In Asylum, located in Washington, District 
of Columbia; in this section referred to as ``Columbia Hospital''), 
subject to subsection (f ) and such other terms and conditions as the 
Administrator of General Services (in this section referred to as the 
``Administrator'') shall require, the Administrator shall convey to 
Columbia Hospital, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to those pieces or parcels of land in the District of Columbia, 
described in subsection (b), together with all improvements thereon and 
appurtenances thereto (in this section referred to as ``the Property''). 
The purchase price for the Property shall be $14,000,000 (not including 
any accrued interest) to be paid in accordance with the terms set forth 
in subsection (d). The purpose of this conveyance is to provide 
hospital, medical and healthcare services and related uses, including 
but not limited to the expansion by Columbia Hospital of its Ambulatory 
Care Center, Betty Ford Breast Center, and the Columbia Hospital Center 
for Teen Health and Reproductive Toxicology Center.

    (b) Property Description.--
            (1) In general.--The land referred to in subsection (a) was 
        conveyed to the United States of America by deed dated May 2, 
        1888, from David Fergusson, widower, recorded in liber 1314, 
        folio 102, of the land records of the District of Columbia, and 
        is that portion of square numbered 25 in the city of Washington 
        in the District of Columbia which was not previously conveyed to 
        such hospital by the Act of June 28, 1952 (66 Stat. 287; chapter 
        486).
            (2) Particular description.--The Property is more 
        particularly described as square 25, lot 803, or as follows: all 
        that piece or parcel of land situated and lying in the city of 
        Washington in the District of Columbia and known as part of 
        square numbered 25, as laid down and distinguished on the plat 
        or plan of said city as follows: beginning for the same at the 
        northeast corner of the square being the corner formed by the 
        intersection of the west line of Twenty-fourth Street Northwest, 
        with the south line of north M Street Northwest and running 
        thence south with the line of said Twenty-fourth Street 
        Northwest for the distance of two hundred and thirty-one feet 
        ten inches, thence running west and parallel

[[Page 113 STAT. 455]]

        with said M Street Northwest for the distance of two hundred and 
        thirty feet six inches and running thence north and parallel 
        with the line of said Twenty-fourth Street Northwest for the 
        distance of two hundred and thirty-one feet ten inches to the 
        line of said M Street Northwest and running thence east with the 
        line of said M Street Northwest to the place of beginning two 
        hundred and thirty feet and six inches together with all the 
        improvements, ways, easements, rights, privileges, and 
        appurtenances to the same belonging or in anywise appertaining.

    (c) Date of Conveyance.--
            (1) Date.--The date of the conveyance of the Property shall 
        be no later than 90 days from the date upon which the 
        Administrator receives from Columbia Hospital written notice of 
        its intent to purchase the Property during which time the 
        parties shall execute all necessary purchase and sale documents, 
        and shall pay the initial cash consideration in an amount at 
        minimum equal to the first of 30 equal annual installment 
        payments of the purchase price as contemplated in subsection 
        (d)(2) hereinbelow.
            (2) Deadline for conveyance of the property.--Written 
        notification and payment of the consideration set forth under 
        subsection (c)(1) from Columbia Hospital shall be ineffective, 
        and all rights granted Columbia Hospital under this section to 
        purchase the Property shall lapse, and become void and of no 
        further force and effect, if that written notification and 
        installment payment are not received by the Administrator before 
        the date which is one (1) year after the date of the enactment 
        of this section.
            (3) Quitclaim deed.--Any conveyance of the Property to 
        Columbia Hospital under this section shall be by quitclaim deed.

    (d) Conveyance Terms.--
            (1) In general.--The conveyance of the Property shall be 
        consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in this 
        section and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator 
        deems to be in the interest of the United States, including but 
        not limited to--
                    (A) credit and payment provisions, including the 
                provision for the prepayment of the full purchase price 
                if mutually acceptable to the parties;
                    (B) restrictions on the use of the Property for the 
                purposes set forth in subsection (a);
                    (C) conditions under which the Property or interests 
                therein may be sold, mortgaged, assigned, or otherwise 
                conveyed in order to facilitate financing to fulfill its 
                intended use; and
                    (D) consequences in the event of default by Columbia 
                Hospital for failing to pay all installments payments 
                toward the total purchase price when due, including 
                reversion of the described property to the United 
                States.
            (2) Payment of purchase price.--Columbia Hospital shall pay 
        the total purchase price of $14,000,000.00 for the Property. The 
        terms and conditions of the sale shall be as deemed by the 
        Administrator to be in the best interests of the United States. 
        Such terms may include financing the payment of the purchase 
        price in annual installments for a term not to exceed

[[Page 113 STAT. 456]]

        30 years with interest on the unpaid balance not to exceed four 
        and five-tenths percent (4.5%) per annum (except during periods 
        of default or upon entry of a final judgment amount).
            (3) The Administrator shall have full authority to 
        administer the credit granted to Columbia Hospital in accordance 
        with this section including, without limitation, the authority 
        to adjust, settle, or compromise the amounts specified in this 
        section or in the documents of conveyance.
            (4) Execution of documents.--The Columbia Hospital shall 
        execute and provide to the Administrator such written 
        instruments including but not limited to contracts for purchase 
        and sale, notes, mortgages, deeds of trust, restrictive 
        covenants, indenture deeds, and assurances as the Administrator 
        may reasonably request to effect this transaction and to protect 
        the interests of the United States under this section.

    (e) Treatment of Amounts Received.--Amounts received by the United 
States as payments under this section shall be paid into the fund 
established by section 210(f ) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f )), and may be 
expended by the Administrator for real property management and related 
activities not otherwise provided for, without further authorization.
    (f ) Reversionary Interest.--
            (1) In general.--The Property, once conveyed as authorized 
        under subsection (a), shall revert to the United States, 
        together with any improvements thereon--
                    (A) One (1) year from the date on which Columbia 
                Hospital defaults in paying to the United States any 
                amount when due; or
                    (B) immediately, upon any attempt by Columbia 
                Hospital to assign, sell, mortgage, or convey the 
                Property without the Administrator's prior written 
                consent before the United States has received full 
                purchase price, plus accrued interest.
            (2) Release of reversionary interest.--The Administrator may 
        release, upon request, any restriction imposed on the use of the 
        Property authorized in subsection (d)(1)(B) for the purposes set 
        forth in subsection (a), and release any reversionary interest 
        of the United States in the Property upon receipt by the United 
        States of full payment of the purchase price, including any 
        accrued interest, specified under subsection (d)(2), or such 
        other terms and conditions as may be determined by the 
        Administrator to be in the best interests of the United States 
        as set forth in subsection (d).
            (3) Property returned to the general services 
        administration.--Any portion of the Property that reverts to the 
        United States under this subsection shall be under the 
        jurisdiction, custody and control of the General Services 
        Administration and shall be available for use or disposition by 
        the Administrator in accordance with applicable Federal law.

    Sec. 411. Voluntary <<NOTE: 5 USC 5597 note.>> Separation Incentive 
Payment for Employees of the General Services Administration. (a) 
Authority.--During the period October 1, 1999, through April 30, 2001, 
the Administrator of General Services is authorized to offer a voluntary 
separation incentive in order to provide the necessary flexibility to 
carry out the closing of the Federal Supply

[[Page 113 STAT. 457]]

Service distribution centers, forward supply points, and associated 
programs in a manner which the Administrator shall deem most efficient, 
equitable to all employees, and cost effective for the Government.

    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``employee'' means an 
employee (as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105) who is employed by GSA under an 
appointment without time limitation, and has been so employed 
continuously for a period of at least 3 years, but does not include--
            (1) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system;
            (2) an employee having a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under the retirement systems referred to in paragraph (1) or 
        another retirement system for employees of the Government;
            (3) an employee who is in receipt of a specific notice of 
        involuntary separation for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            (4) an employee who has previously received any voluntary 
        separation incentive payment from an agency or instrumentality 
        of the Government of the United States under any authority;
            (5) an employee covered by statutory reemployment rights who 
        is on transfer to another organization; or
            (6) an employee who during the 24 month period preceding the 
        date of separation, has received a recruitment or relocation 
        bonus under section 5753 of title 5, United States Code, or who, 
        within the 12 month period preceding the date of separation, has 
        received and not repaid a retention allowance under section 5754 
        of that title.

    (c) Agency Strategic Plan.--The Administrator of General Services, 
prior to obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive 
payments, shall submit to the Office of Management and Budget a 
strategic plan outlining the intended use of such incentive payments and 
a proposed organizational chart for the agency once such incentive 
payments have been completed.
            (1) The agency's plan shall include:
                    (A) the specific positions and functions to be 
                reduced or eliminated;
                    (B) a proposed coverage for offers of incentives;
                    (C) the time period during which incentives may be 
                paid;
                    (D) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered; and
                    (E) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions.
            (2) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall review the agency's plan and approve or disapprove such 
        plan, and may make any appropriate modifications in the plan.

    (d) Authority to Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) The agency head may pay a voluntary separation incentive 
        payment under this section to an employee only in accordance 
        with the strategic plan under subsection (c).
            (2) A voluntary separation incentive payment--

[[Page 113 STAT. 458]]

                    (A) shall be offered to agency employees on the 
                basis of organizational unit, occupational series or 
                level, geographic location, other nonpersonal factors, 
                or an appropriate combination of such factors;
                    (B) shall be paid in a lump sum after the employee's 
                separation;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                          (i) an amount equal to the amount the employee 
                      would be entitled to receive under section 5595(c) 
                      of title 5, United States Code; if the employee 
                      were entitled to payment under such section 
                      (without adjustment for any previous payment 
                      made); or
                          (ii) an amount determined by the agency head, 
                      not to exceed $25,000.
                    (D) may be made only in the case of an employee who 
                voluntarily separates (whether by retirement or 
                resignation) under the provisions of this section;
                    (E) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation of any other type of 
                Government benefit;
                    (F) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation; and
                    (G) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employee.

    (e) Eligibility for Payments.--Payments under this section may be 
made to any qualifying employee who voluntarily separates, whether by 
retirement or resignation, between October 1, 1999 through April 30, 
2001.
    (f ) Effect of Subsequent Employment With the Government.--
            (1) An individual who has received a voluntary separation 
        incentive payment under this section and accepts any employment 
        for compensation with the Government of the United States within 
        5 years after the date of the separation on which the payment is 
        based shall be required to pay, prior to the individual's first 
        day of employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to 
        the agency that paid the incentive payment.
            (2)(A) If the employment under this subsection is with an 
        Executive agency (as defined by section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code, but excluding the General Accounting Office), the 
        United States Postal Service, or the Postal Rate Commission, the 
        Director of the Office of Personnel Management may, at the 
        request of the head of the agency, waive the repayment if the 
        individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only 
        qualified applicant available for the position.
            (B) If the employment under this subsection is with an 
        entity in the Legislative Branch, the head of the entity or the 
        appointing official may waive the repayment if the individual 
        involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified 
        applicant available for the position.
            (C) If the employment under this subsection is with the 
        Judicial Branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of 
        the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the

[[Page 113 STAT. 459]]

        individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only 
        qualified applicant available for the position.
            (D) Employment under a personal services contract with the 
        Government of the United States shall be included in the term 
        ``employment'' with respect to paragraph (1), but shall be 
        excluded with respect to paragraph (2).

    (g) Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In addition to any other payments which it is required 
        to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5, United States Code, the General Services Administration 
        shall remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in 
        the Treasury to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement and 
        Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 percent of the final 
        annual basic pay for each employee covered under subchapter III 
        of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to 
        whom a voluntary separation incentive has been paid under this 
        section.
            (2) For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term ``final basic 
        pay'' with respect to an employee, means the total amount of 
        basic pay which would be payable for a year of service by such 
        employee, computed using the employee's final rate of basic pay, 
        and, if last serving on other than a full-time basis, with 
        appropriate adjustment therefor.

    (h) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) The total number of funded employee positions in the 
        agency shall be reduced by one position for each vacancy created 
        by the separation of any employee who has received, or is due to 
        receive, a voluntary separation incentive payment under this 
        section. For the purposes of this subsection positions shall be 
        counted on a full-time equivalent basis.
            (2) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall monitor the agency and take any action necessary to ensure 
        that the requirement of this subsection is met.
            (3) At the request of the Administrator of General Services, 
        the Office of Management and Budget may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) if he or she determines that the plan required by 
        subsection (c) satisfactorily demonstrates downsizing or other 
        restructuring within GSA that would produce a cost-effective 
        result.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct procurement 
of survey printing, $27,586,000 together with not to exceed $2,430,000 
for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

[[Page 113 STAT. 460]]

    Federal Payment to Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
                National Environmental Policy Foundation

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Trust Fund, to be available for the purposes of 
Public Law 102-252, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $1,250,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and archived Federal records and related activities, as provided by law, 
and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $180,398,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide 
adequate storage for holdings.

                         repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $22,418,000, to remain 
available until expended.

records center revolving <<NOTE: 44 usc 2901 note.>> fund

    (a) Establishment of Fund.--There is hereby established in the 
Treasury a revolving fund to be available for expenses and equipment 
necessary to provide for storage and related services for all temporary 
and pre-archival Federal records, which are to be stored or stored at 
Federal National and Regional Records Centers by agencies and other 
instrumentalities of the Federal Government. The Fund shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation for expenses necessary for operation of 
these activities.
    (b) Start-Up Capital.--
            (1) There is appropriated $22,000,000 as initial 
        capitalization of the Fund.
            (2) In addition, the initial capital of the Fund shall 
        include the fair and reasonable value at the Fund's inception of 
        the inventories, equipment, receivables, and other assets, less 
        the liabilities, transferred to the Fund. The Archivist of the 
        United States is authorized to accept inventories, equipment, 
        receivables and other assets from other Federal entities that 
        were used to provide for storage and related services for 
        temporary and pre-archival Federal records.

[[Page 113 STAT. 461]]

    (c) User Charges.--The Fund shall be credited with user charges 
received from other Federal Government accounts as payment for providing 
personnel, storage, materials, supplies, equipment, and services as 
authorized by subsection (a). Such payments may be made in advance or by 
way of reimbursement. The rates charged will return in full the expenses 
of operation, including reserves for accrued annual leave, worker's 
compensation, depreciation of capitalized equipment and shelving, and 
amortization of information technology software and systems.
    (d) Funds Returned to Miscellaneous Receipts of the Department of 
the Treasury.--
            (1) In addition to funds appropriated to and assets 
        transferred to the Fund in subsection (b), an amount not to 
        exceed 4 percent of the total annual income may be retained in 
        the Fund as an operating reserve or for the replacement or 
        acquisition of capital equipment, including shelving, and the 
        improvement and implementation of the financial management, 
        information technology, and other support systems of the 
        National Archives and Records Administration.
            (2) Funds in excess of the 4 percent at the close of each 
        fiscal year shall be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States as miscellaneous receipts.

    (e) Reporting Requirement.--The National Archives and Records 
Administration shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations and Government Reform of the House of 
Representatives on the operation of the Records Center Revolving Fund.

         National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as amended, 
$6,250,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 105-277, $2,000,000 
are rescinded: Provided further, That the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in division A, section 
101(h), of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277)) is amended in title IV, 
under the heading ``National Historical Publications and Records 
Commission, Grants <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-508.>> Program'' by striking 
the proviso.

                       Office of Government Ethics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to 
exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$9,114,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 462]]

                     Office of Personnel Management

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $90,584,000; and in 
addition $95,486,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs, of which 
$4,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the cost of 
automating the retirement recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the 
provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the authority to use 
applicable trust funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B) and 8909(g) 
of title 5, United States Code: Provided further, That no part of this 
appropriation shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal 
Examining Unit of the Office of Personnel Management established 
pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor 
unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the President's Commission 
on White House Fellows, established by Executive Order No. 11183 of 
October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2000, accept donations of 
money, property, and personal services in connection with the 
development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted for 
travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as amended, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed $9,645,000 for 
administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

[[Page 113 STAT. 463]]

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

         payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may 
be <<NOTE: 33 USC 776.>> necessary: Provided, That annuities authorized 
by the Act of May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, 
as amended (33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil 
Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

                        Office of Special Counsel

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, $9,740,000.

                         United States Tax Court

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $35,179,000: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 26 USC 7443 note.>> travel expenses of the judges shall be 
paid upon the written certificate of the judge.

    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

[[Page 113 STAT. 464]]

    Sec. 502. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 2000 for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has within 
90 days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than 1 year, made 
application for restoration to his former position and has been 
certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to 
perform the duties of his former position and has not been restored 
thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in 
expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 509. <<NOTE: Abortion.>> No funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal employees 
health benefit program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.

[[Page 113 STAT. 465]]

    Sec. 510. The provision of section 509 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 2000 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 2000 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2001, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

    Sec. 513. Notwithstanding section 515 of Public Law 104-208, 50 
percent of the unobligated balances available to the White House Office, 
Salaries and Expenses appropriations in fiscal year 1997, shall remain 
available through September 30, 2000, for the purposes of satisfying the 
conditions of section 515 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    Sec. 514. The cost accounting standards promulgated under section 26 
of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public Law 93-400; 41 
U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect to a contract under the Federal 
Employees Health Benefits Program established under chapter 89 of title 
5, United States Code.
    Sec. 515. Inventory of Federal Grant Programs. The Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall prepare an inventory of existing 
Federal grant programs after consulting each agency that administers 
Federal grant programs including formula funds, competitive grant funds, 
block grant funds, and direct payments. The inventory shall include the 
name of the program, a copy of relevant statutory and regulatory 
guidelines, the funding level in fiscal year 1999, a list of the 
eligibility criteria both statutory and regulatory, and a copy of the 
application form. The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Director shall submit the 
inventory no later than 6 months after enactment to the Committees on 
Appropriations and relevant authorizing committees.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of employees 
serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness of said 
employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other

[[Page 113 STAT. 466]]

Act for fiscal year 2000 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless 
such department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will 
continue to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to 
ensure that all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, 
possession, or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the 
Controlled Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>> Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), 
for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall 
be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed 
$3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for special 
heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this 
section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or 
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles.

    Sec. 604. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 605. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3101 note.>> Unless otherwise specified 
during the current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States (including 
any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government 
of the United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is 
a person in the service of the United States on the date of the 
enactment of this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a 
declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States prior 
to such date and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from 
Cuba, Poland, South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, 
or the Baltic countries lawfully admitted to the United States for 
permanent residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian 
refugee paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a 
national of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment 
of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: 
Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by 
any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that the 
requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have been 
complied with: Provided further, That any person making a false 
affidavit shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be 
fined no more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or 
both: Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition 
to, and not in substitution for, any other provisions of existing law: 
Provided further, That any payment

[[Page 113 STAT. 467]]

made to any officer or employee contrary to the provisions of this 
section shall be recoverable in action by the Federal Government. This 
section shall not apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, or the Republic 
of the Philippines, or to nationals of those countries allied with the 
United States in a current defense effort, or to international 
broadcasters employed by the United States Information Agency, or to 
temporary employment of translators, or to temporary employment in the 
field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies.

    Sec. 606. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 607. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13101 
        (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available: Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the 
Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards (except 
Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, or similar 
groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which do not have 
a prior and specific statutory approval to receive financial support 
from more than one agency or instrumentality.

[[Page 113 STAT. 468]]

    Sec. 611. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and such 
guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of special 
policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or 
occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the same 
actions as the Administrator of General Services may take under the 
provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended 
(62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto penal 
consequences under the authority and within the limits provided in 
section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
    Sec. 613. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2000, by this or 
any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described 
in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 614 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 1999, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 2000, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the applicable wage 
        schedule in accordance with such section 614; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2000, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2000 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2000 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments which was 
                effective in fiscal year 1999 under such section.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> For the purposes of this section, the 
rates payable to an employee who is covered by this section and who is 
paid from

[[Page 113 STAT. 469]]

a schedule not in existence on September 30, 1999, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1999, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to pay for service performed after September 30, 1999.

    (f ) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, 
life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that requires any 
deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation 
on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or 
basic pay payable after the application of this section shall be treated 
as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions to 
the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines that 
such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of 
qualified employees.
    Sec. 614. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations. For the purposes 
of this section, the word ``office'' shall include the entire suite of 
offices assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used 
primarily by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled 
by the individual.
    Sec. 615. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, except 
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain 
the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other 
agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center 
facilities.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2000 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-

[[Page 113 STAT. 470]]

determining character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to 
section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to 
the Office of Personnel Management from the head of the Federal 
department, agency, or other instrumentality employing the Schedule C 
appointee that the Schedule C position was not created solely or 
primarily in order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
        the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of the 
        Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing intelligence 
        functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.

    Sec. 618. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2000 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual harassment 
and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in 
Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 619. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including employees 
of the Executive Office of the President, not directly responsible for 
the discharge of official governmental tasks and duties: Provided, That 
this restriction shall not apply to the family of the President, Members 
of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State of a foreign country or 
their designees, persons providing assistance to the President for 
official purposes, or other individuals so designated by the President.
    Sec. 620. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines that 
noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of the 
enactment of this Act. Any waiver granted by the Chief Information 
Officer shall be reported to the Office of Management and Budget, and 
copies shall be provided to Congress.
    Sec. 621. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the importation into 
the United States of any good, ware, article, or

[[Page 113 STAT. 471]]

merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured 
child labor, as determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 622. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of 
        the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).

    Sec. 623. <<NOTE: 28 USC 2671 note.>> Section 627(b) of the Treasury 
and General Government Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in section 
101(h) of division A of Public Law 105-277) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-
519.>> is amended by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting the 
following: ``Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
thereafter, and notwithstanding''.

    Sec. 624. <<NOTE: President. Certification. 5 USC 7301 
note.>> Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or his 
designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or persons 
with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the Executive 
Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are themselves 
subject to a program of individual random drug testing.

    Sec. 625. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.

[[Page 113 STAT. 472]]

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 626. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 2000 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard 
Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, 
form, or agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain 
the following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and 
do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12958; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing 
disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) 
of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse 
or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities 
Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures 
that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes 
which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national 
security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, 
United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 
1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, 
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order and 
listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are 
controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, 
a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United States 
Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 627. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity 
or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 628. <<NOTE: Records. Reports.>> (a) In General.--For calendar 
year 2001, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
prepare and submit to Congress, with the budget submitted under section 
1105 of title 31, United States Code, an accounting statement and 
associated report containing--
            (1) an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits 
        (including quantifiable and nonquantifiable effects) of Federal 
        rules and paperwork, to the extent feasible--
                    (A) in the aggregate;

[[Page 113 STAT. 473]]

                    (B) by agency and agency program; and
                    (C) by major rule;
            (2) an analysis of impacts of Federal regulation on State, 
        local, and tribal government, small business, wages, and 
        economic growth; and
            (3) recommendations for reform.

    (b) Notice.--The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall provide public notice and an opportunity to comment on the 
statement and report under subsection (a) before the statement and 
report are submitted to Congress.
    (c) Guidelines.--To implement this section, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall issue guidelines to agencies to 
standardize--
            (1) measures of costs and benefits; and
            (2) the format of accounting statements.

    (d) Peer Review.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide for independent and external peer review of the 
guidelines and each accounting statement and associated report under 
this section. Such peer review shall not be subject to the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    Sec. 629. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when the employee has 
authorized such disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a 
court of competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 630. <<NOTE: 18 USC 846 note.>> The Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized to establish scientific certification standards for 
explosives detection canines, and shall provide, on a reimbursable 
basis, for the certification of explosives detection canines employed by 
Federal agencies, or other agencies providing explosives detection 
services at airports in the United States.

    Sec. 631. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing or 
telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 632. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 633. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.

    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 634. <<NOTE: 18 USC 922 note.>> None of the funds made 
available in this or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year may 
be used for any system to implement section 922(t) of title 18, United 
States Code,

[[Page 113 STAT. 474]]

unless the system allows, in connection with a person's delivery of a 
firearm to a Federal firearms licensee as collateral for a loan, the 
background check to be performed at the time the collateral is offered 
for delivery to such licensee: Provided, <<NOTE: Notification.>> That 
the licensee notifies local law enforcement within 48 hours of the 
licensee receiving a denial on the person offering the collateral: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the provisions of 
section 922(t) shall apply at the time of the redemption of the firearm.

    Sec. 635. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision providing 
prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also includes a 
provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Providence Health Plan;
                    (B) Personal Care's HMO;
                    (C) Care Choices;
                    (D) OSF Health Plans, Inc.;
                    (E) Yellowstone Community Health Plan; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the plan objects to such 
        coverage on the basis of religious beliefs.

    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe 
contraceptives because such activities would be contrary to the 
individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) <<NOTE: Abortion.>> Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to require coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.

    Sec. 636. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, funds made available for fiscal year 2000 by this or any other Act 
to any department or agency, which is a member of the Joint Financial 
Management Improvement Program (JFMIP), shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of JFMIP administrative costs, as determined by the 
JFMIP, but not to exceed a total of $800,000 including the salary of the 
Executive Director and staff support.
    Sec. 637. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to the ``Policy and Operations'' account, General 
Services Administration, with the approval of the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, funds made available for fiscal year 2000 by 
this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card and other 
contracts. These funds shall be administered by the Administrator of 
General Services to support Government-wide financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency groups 
designated by the Director (including the Chief Financial Officers 
Council and the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program for 
financial management initiatives and the Chief Information Officers 
Council for information technology initiatives). The total funds 
transferred shall not exceed $7,000,000. Such transfers may only be made 
15 days following notification of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

[[Page 113 STAT. 475]]

    Sec. 638. (a) In General.--Section 901 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c)(1) <<NOTE: Establishment. President.>> There shall be within 
the Executive Office of the President a Chief Financial Officer, who 
shall be designated or appointed by the President from among individuals 
meeting the standards described in subsection (a)(3). The position of 
Chief Financial Officer established under this paragraph may be so 
established in any Office (including the Office of Administration) of 
the Executive Office of the President.

    ``(2) The Chief Financial Officer designated or appointed under this 
subsection shall, to the extent that the President determines 
appropriate and in the interest of the United States, have the same 
authority and perform the same functions as apply in the case of a Chief 
Financial Officer of an agency described in subsection (b).
    ``(3) <<NOTE: Notification.>> The President shall submit to Congress 
notification with respect to any provision of section 902 that the 
President determines shall not apply to a Chief Financial Officer 
designated or appointed under this subsection.

    ``(4) The President may designate an employee of the Executive 
Office of the President (other than the Chief Financial Officer), who 
shall be deemed `the head of the agency' for purposes of carrying out 
section 902, with respect to the Executive Office of the President.''.
    (b) Plan <<NOTE: Deadline. 31 USC 901 note.>> for Implementation.--
Not later than 90 days after the effective date of this section, the 
President shall communicate in writing, to the Chairmen of the 
Committees on Appropriations, the Chairman of the Committee on 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Chairman of 
the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, a plan for 
implementation of the provisions of, and amendments made by, this 
section.

    (c) Deadline <<NOTE: 31 USC 901 note.>> for Appointment.--The Chief 
Financial Officer designated or appointed under section 901(c) of title 
31, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), shall be so 
designated or appointed not later than 180 days after the effective date 
of this section.

    (d) Pay.--The <<NOTE: 31 USC 901 note.>> Chief Financial Officer 
designated or appointed under such section shall receive basic pay at 
the rate payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of title 5, United States Code.

    (e) Transfer <<NOTE: 31 USC 901 note.>> of Functions.--(1) The 
President may transfer such offices, functions, powers, or duties 
thereof, as the President determines are properly related to the 
functions of the Chief Financial Officer under section 901(c) of title 
31, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)).

    (2) The personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, 
records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, 
allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, 
available or to be made available, of any office the functions, powers, 
or duties of which are transferred under paragraph (1) shall also be so 
transferred.
    (f ) Separate Budget Request.--Section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after paragraph (30) the following 
new paragraph:
            ``(31) a separate statement of the amount of appropriations 
        requested for the Chief Financial Officer in the Executive 
        Office of the President.''.

[[Page 113 STAT. 476]]

    (g) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 503(a) of title 
31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7) by striking ``respectively.'' and 
        inserting ``respectively (excluding any officer designated or 
        appointed under section 901(c)).''; and
            (2) in paragraph (8) by striking ``Officers.'' and inserting 
        ``Officers (excluding any officer designated or appointed under 
        section 901(c)).''.

    (h) Effective <<NOTE: 31 USC 503 note.>> Date.--This section shall 
take effect at noon on January 20, 2001.

    Sec. 639. (a) Section 304(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 434(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (11) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(11)(A) <<NOTE: Regulations. Reports.>> The Commission shall 
promulgate a regulation under which a person required to file a 
designation, statement, or report under this Act--
            ``(i) is required to maintain and file a designation, 
        statement, or report for any calendar year in electronic form 
        accessible by computers if the person has, or has reason to 
        expect to have, aggregate contributions or expenditures in 
        excess of a threshold amount determined by the Commission; and
            ``(ii) may maintain and file a designation, statement, or 
        report in electronic form or an alternative form if not required 
        to do so under the regulation promulgated under clause (i).

    ``(B) <<NOTE: Notification. Public availability. Internet.>> The 
Commission shall make a designation, statement, report, or notification 
that is filed electronically with the Commission accessible to the 
public on the Internet not later than 24 hours after the designation, 
statement, report, or notification is received by the Commission.

    ``(C) <<NOTE: Verification.>> In promulgating a regulation under 
this paragraph, the Commission shall provide methods (other than 
requiring a signature on the document being filed) for verifying 
designations, statements, and reports covered by the regulation. Any 
document verified under any of the methods shall be treated for all 
purposes (including penalties for perjury) in the same manner as a 
document verified by signature.

    ``(D) As used in this paragraph, the term `report' means, with 
respect to the Commission, a report, designation, or statement required 
by this Act to be filed with the Commission.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 434 note.>> The amendments made by 
this section shall be effective for reporting periods beginning after 
December 31, 2000.

    Sec. 640. (a) In General.--Section 309(a)(4) of the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 437g(a)(4)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``clause (ii)'' and 
        inserting ``clauses (ii) and subparagraph (C)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

    ``(C)(i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), in the case of a 
violation of any requirement of section 304(a) of the Act (2 U.S.C. 
434(a)), the Commission may--
            ``(I) find that a person committed such a violation on the 
        basis of information obtained pursuant to the procedures 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2); and
            ``(II) based on such finding, require the person to pay a 
        civil money penalty in an amount determined under a schedule of 
        penalties which is established and published by the Commission 
        and which takes into account the amount of the violation 
        involved, the existence of previous violations

[[Page 113 STAT. 477]]

        by the person, and such other factors as the Commission 
        considers appropriate.

    ``(ii) The Commission may not make any determination adverse to a 
person under clause (i) until the person has been given written notice 
and an opportunity to be heard before the Commission.
    ``(iii) Any person against whom an adverse determination is made 
under this subparagraph may obtain a review of such determination in the 
district court of the United States for the district in which the person 
resides, or transacts business, by filing in such court (prior to the 
expiration of the 30-day period which begins on the date the person 
receives notification of the determination) a written petition 
requesting that the determination be modified or set aside.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 309(a)(6)(A) of such Act (2 
U.S.C. 437g(a)(6)(A)) is amended by striking ``paragraph (4)(A)'' and 
inserting ``paragraph (4)''.
    (c) Effective <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 437g note.>> Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to violations 
occurring between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2001.

    Sec. 641. (a) Section 304(b) of the Federal Election Campaign Act (2 
U.S.C. 434(b)) is amended by inserting ``(or election cycle, in the case 
of an authorized committee of a candidate for Federal office)'' after 
``calendar year'' each place it appears in paragraphs (2), (3), (4), 
(6), and (7).
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 434 note.>> The amendment made by 
this section shall become effective with respect to reporting periods 
beginning after December 31, 2000.

    Sec. 642. (a) In General.--Section 636 of the Treasury Postal 
Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1997 (5 U.S.C. prec. 
5941 note) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``may'' and 
inserting ``shall''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 5 USC note prec. 5941.>> amendment 
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 1999, or the date 
of the enactment of this Act, whichever is later.

    Sec. 643. (a) In General.--Upon promulgation of the regulations 
required under subsection (c), an Executive agency which provides or 
proposes to provide child care services for Federal employees may use 
appropriated funds (otherwise available to such agency for salaries) to 
provide child care, in a Federal or leased facility, or through 
contract, for civilian employees of such agency.
    (b) Affordability.--Amounts so provided with respect to any such 
facility or contractor shall be applied to improve the affordability of 
child care for lower income Federal employees using or seeking to use 
the child care services offered by such facility or contractor.
    (c) Regulations.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Office of Personnel 
Management shall, within 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, issue regulations necessary to carry out this section.

    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 105 of title 5, 
United States Code, but does not include the General Accounting Office.
    (e) Notification.--None of the funds made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to implement the provisions of this section absent 
advance notification to the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 113 STAT. 478]]

    Sec. 644. (a) Increase in Annual Compensation.--Section 102 of title 
3, United States Code, is amended by striking ``$200,000'' and inserting 
``$400,000''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>> amendment made by 
this section shall take effect at noon on January 20, 2001.

    Sec. 645. <<NOTE: Effective date. Government 
organization.>> Effective October 1, 1999, all personnel of the General 
Accounting Office employed or maintained to carry out functions of the 
Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) shall be 
transferred to the General Services Administration. The Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management shall provide to the General Services 
Administration one permanent Senior Executive Service allocation for the 
position of the Executive Director of the JFMIP. Personnel transferred 
pursuant to this section shall not be separated or reduced in 
classification or compensation for 1 year after any such transfer, 
except for cause.

    Sec. 646. <<NOTE: Pay increase. 5 USC 5303 note.>> (a) The 
adjustment in rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that 
takes effect in fiscal year 2000 under sections 5303 and 5304 of title 
5, United States Code, shall be an increase of 4.8 percent.

    (b) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 647. <<NOTE: Breastfeeding.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a 
Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are 
otherwise authorized to be present at the location.

    Sec. 648. Federal Funds Identified. Any request for proposals, 
solicitation, grant application, form, notification, press release, or 
other publications involving the distribution of Federal funds shall 
indicate the agency providing the funds and the amount 
provided. <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This provision shall apply to direct 
payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State receiving 
Federal funds.

    Sec. 649. (a) Congress finds that--
            (1) the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States (in 
        this section referred to as the ``VFW''), which was formed by 
        veterans of the Spanish-American War and the Philippine 
        Insurrection to help secure rights and benefits for their 
        service, will be celebrating its 100th anniversary in 1999;
            (2) members of the VFW have fought, bled, and died in every 
        war, conflict, police action, and military intervention in which 
        the United States has engaged during this century;
            (3) over its history, the VFW has ably represented the 
        interests of veterans in Congress and State Legislatures across 
        the Nation and established a network of trained service officers 
        who, at no charge, have helped millions of veterans and their 
        dependents to secure the education, disability compensation, 
        pension, and health care benefits they are rightfully entitled 
        to receive as a result of the military service performed by 
        those veterans;
            (4) the VFW has also been deeply involved in national 
        education projects, awarding nearly $2,700,000 in scholarships 
        annually, as well as countless community projects initiated by 
        its 10,000 posts; and
            (5) the United States Postal Service has issued 
        commemorative postage stamps honoring the VFW's 50th and 75th 
        anniversaries, respectively.

[[Page 113 STAT. 479]]

    (b) Therefore, it is the sense of the Congress that the United 
States Postal Service is encouraged to issue a commemorative postage 
stamp in honor of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Veterans 
of Foreign Wars of the United States.
    Sec. 650. Itemized <<NOTE: Deadline. 26 USC 7801 note.>> Income Tax 
Receipt. (a) In General.--Not later than April 15, 2000, the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall establish an interactive program on an Internet 
website where any taxpayer may generate an itemized receipt showing a 
proportionate allocation (in money terms) of the taxpayer's total tax 
payments among the major expenditure categories.

    (b) Information Necessary To Generate Receipt.--For purposes of 
generating an itemized receipt under subsection (a), the interactive 
program--
            (1) shall only require the input of the taxpayer's total tax 
        payments; and
            (2) shall not require any identifying information relating 
        to the taxpayer.

    (c) Total Tax Payments.--For purposes of this section, total tax 
payments of an individual for any taxable year are--
            (1) the tax imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 for such taxable year (as shown on his return); and
            (2) the tax imposed by section 3101 of such Code on wages 
        received during such taxable year.

    (d) Content of Tax Receipt.--
            (1) Major expenditure categories.--For purposes of 
        subsection (a), the major expenditure categories are:
                    (A) National defense.
                    (B) International affairs.
                    (C) Medicaid.
                    (D) Medicare.
                    (E) Means-tested entitlements.
                    (F) Domestic discretionary.
                    (G) Social Security.
                    (H) Interest payments.
                    (I) All other.
            (2) Other items on receipt.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition, the tax receipt shall 
                include selected examples of more specific expenditure 
                items, including the items listed in subparagraph (B), 
                either at the budget function, subfunction, or program, 
                project, or activity levels, along with any other 
                information deemed appropriate by the Secretary of the 
                Treasury and the Director of the Office of Management 
                and Budget to enhance taxpayer understanding of the 
                Federal budget.
                    (B) Listed items.--The expenditure items listed in 
                this subparagraph are as follows:
                          (i) Public schools funding programs.
                          (ii) Student loans and college aid.
                          (iii) Low-income housing programs.
                          (iv) Food stamp and welfare programs.
                          (v) Law enforcement, including the Federal 
                      Bureau of Investigation, law enforcement grants to 
                      the States, and other Federal law enforcement 
                      personnel.
                          (vi) Infrastructure, including roads, bridges, 
                      and mass transit.
                          (vii) Farm subsidies.

[[Page 113 STAT. 480]]

                          (viii) Congressional Member and staff 
                      salaries.
                          (ix) Health research programs.
                          (x) Aid to the disabled.
                          (xi) Veterans health care and pension 
                      programs.
                          (xii) Space programs.
                          (xiii) Environmental cleanup programs.
                          (xiv) United States embassies.
                          (xv) Military salaries.
                          (xvi) Foreign aid.
                          (xvii) Contributions to the North Atlantic 
                      Treaty Organization.
                          (xviii) Amtrak.
                          (xix) United States Postal Service.

    (e) Cost.--No charge shall be imposed to cover any cost associated 
with the production or distribution of the tax receipt.
    (f ) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe such 
regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    Sec. 651. (a) Section 7001 of Public Law 105-174 (112 Stat. 
91) <<NOTE: 5 USC 8336 note, 8414 note.>> is amended by striking each 
place it appears ``for purposes of the period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 1999,'' and inserting 
``May 1, 1998,''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 5 USC 8336 and note, 8339, 8414, 8464.>> Section 1109 of 
Public Law 105-261 (112 Stat. 2143) is repealed.

    Sec. 652. <<NOTE: Postal Service. 40 USC 1003 note.>> (a) The 
American Battle Monuments Commission and the World War II Memorial 
Advisory Board (as referred to in Public Law 103-32 (40 U.S.C. 1003 
note; 107 Stat. 90)) shall each be considered to qualify for the rates 
of postage currently in effect under former section 4452 of title 39, 
United States Code, for third-class mail matter mailed by a qualified 
nonprofit organization.

    (b) Rates of postage afforded by subsection (a) shall be available 
only with respect to official mail sent for the furtherance of the 
purpose of section 2(c)(1) or 3 of Public Law 103-32, as applicable.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2000 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 653. <<NOTE: Copyrights. 15 USC 1128.>> (a) Establishment.--
There is established the National Intellectual Property Law Enforcement 
Coordination Council (in this section referred to as the ``Council''). 
The Council shall consist of the following members--
            (1) The Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner of 
        Patents and Trademarks, who shall serve as co-chair of the 
        Council.
            (2) The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, who 
        shall serve as co-chair of the Council.
            (3) The Under Secretary of State for Economic and 
        Agricultural Affairs.
            (4) The Ambassador, Deputy United States Trade 
        Representative.
            (5) The Commissioner of Customs.
            (6) The Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade.

    (b) Duties.--The Council established in subsection (a) shall 
coordinate domestic and international intellectual property law 
enforcement among federal and foreign entities.
    (c) Consultation Required.--The Council shall consult with the 
Register of Copyrights on law enforcement matters relating to copyright 
and related rights and matters.

[[Page 113 STAT. 481]]

    (d) Non-derogation.--Nothing in this section shall derogate from the 
duties of the Secretary of State or from the duties of the United States 
Trade Representative as set forth in section 141 of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171), or from the duties and functions of the Register 
of Copyrights, or otherwise alter current authorities relating to 
copyright matters.
    (e) Report.--The Council shall report annually on its coordination 
activities to the President, and to the Committees on Appropriations and 
on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (f ) Funding.--Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United 
States Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal 
year 2000 and hereafter by this or any other Act shall be available for 
interagency funding of the National Intellectual Property Law 
Enforcement Coordination Council.
    Sec. 654. In addition to funds otherwise provided under the heading 
``National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration'' for ``Operations, 
Research, and Facilities'' in Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-83), 
$5,650,000 is appropriated for necessary retired pay expenses under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefit Plan, and 
for payment for medical care of retired personnel and their dependents 
under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2000''.

    Approved September 29, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2490 (S. 1282):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-231 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-319     
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-87 accompanying S. 1282 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            July 15, considered and passed House.
            July 19, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 1282.
            Sept. 15, House agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 16, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Sept. 29, Presidential statements.

                                  <all>