[106th Congress Public Law 503]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ503.106]


[[Page 2297]]

   FIRE ADMINISTRATION AND EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

[[Page 114 STAT. 2298]]

Public Law 106-503
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize appropriations for the United States Fire Administration, 
 and for carrying out the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977, for 
fiscal years 2001, 2002, and 2003, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                       13, 2000 -  [H.R. 1550]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

TITLE <<NOTE: Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2000.>> I--UNITED 
STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 15 USC 2201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Fire Administration Authorization 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 17(g)(1) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 
1974 (15 U.S.C. 2216(g)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (G);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (H) 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(I) $44,753,000 for fiscal year 2001, of which $3,000,000 
        is for research activities, and $250,000 may be used for 
        contracts or grants to non-Federal entities for data analysis, 
        including general fire profiles and special fire analyses and 
        report projects, and of which $6,000,000 is for anti-terrorism 
        training, including associated curriculum development, for fire 
        and emergency services personnel;
            ``(J) $47,800,000 for fiscal year 2002, of which $3,250,000 
        is for research activities, and $250,000 may be used for 
        contracts or grants to non-Federal entities for data analysis, 
        including general fire profiles and special fire analyses and 
        report projects, and of which $7,000,000 is for anti-terrorism 
        training, including associated curriculum development, for fire 
        and emergency services personnel; and
            ``(K) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2003, of which $3,500,000 
        is for research activities, and $250,000 may be used for 
        contracts or grants to non-Federal entities for data analysis, 
        including general fire profiles and special fire analyses and 
        report projects, and of which $8,000,000 is for anti-terrorism 
        training, including associated curriculum development, for fire 
        and emergency services personnel.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2299]]

None of the funds authorized for the United States Fire Administration 
for fiscal year 2002 may be obligated unless the Administrator has 
verified to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
that the obligation of funds is consistent with the strategic plan 
transmitted under section 103 of this Act.

SEC. 103. STRATEGIC PLAN.

    (a) Requirement.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than April 30, 2001, 
the Administrator of the United States Fire Administration shall prepare 
and transmit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
a 5-year strategic plan of program activities for the United States Fire 
Administration.

    (b) Contents of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a comprehensive mission statement covering the major 
        functions and operations of the United States Fire 
        Administration in the areas of training; research, development, 
        test and evaluation; new technology and non-developmental item 
        implementation; safety; counterterrorism; data collection and 
        analysis; and public education;
            (2) general goals and objectives, including those related to 
        outcomes, for the major functions and operations of the United 
        States Fire Administration;
            (3) a description of how the goals and objectives identified 
        under paragraph (2) are to be achieved, including operational 
        processes, skills and technology, and the human, capital, 
        information, and other resources required to meet those goals 
        and objectives;
            (4) an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of, 
        opportunities for, and threats to the United States Fire 
        Administration;
            (5) an identification of the fire-related activities of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Department 
        of Defense, and other Federal agencies, and a discussion of how 
        those activities can be coordinated with and contribute to the 
        achievement of the goals and objectives identified under 
        paragraph (2);
            (6) a description of objective, quantifiable performance 
        goals needed to define the level of performance achieved by 
        program activities in training, research, data collection and 
        analysis, and public education, and how these performance goals 
        relate to the general goals and objectives in the strategic 
        plan;
            (7) an identification of key factors external to the United 
        States Fire Administration and beyond its control that could 
        affect significantly the achievement of the general goals and 
        objectives;
            (8) a description of program evaluations used in 
        establishing or revising general goals and objectives, with a 
        schedule for future program evaluations;
            (9) a plan for the timely distribution of information and 
        educational materials to State and local firefighting services, 
        including volunteer, career, and combination services throughout 
        the United States;
            (10) a description of how the strategic plan prepared under 
        this section will be incorporated into the strategic plan and

[[Page 114 STAT. 2300]]

        the performance plans and reports of the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency;
            (11)(A) a description of the current and planned use of the 
        Internet for the delivery of training courses by the National 
        Fire Academy, including a listing of the types of courses and a 
        description of each course's provisions for real time 
        interaction between instructor and students, the number of 
        students enrolled, and the geographic distribution of students, 
        for the most recent fiscal year;
            (B) an assessment of the availability and actual use by the 
        National Fire Academy of Federal facilities suitable for 
        distance education applications, including facilities with 
        teleconferencing capabilities; and
            (C) an assessment of the benefits and problems associated 
        with delivery of instructional courses using the Internet, 
        including limitations due to network bandwidth at training 
        sites, the availability of suitable course materials, and the 
        effectiveness of such courses in terms of student performance;
            (12) timeline for implementing the plan; and
            (13) the expected costs for implementing the plan.

SEC. 104. RESEARCH AGENDA.

    (a) Requirement.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 120 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the United 
States Fire Administration, in consultation with the Director of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, representatives of trade, 
professional, and non-profit associations, State and local firefighting 
services, and other appropriate entities, shall prepare and transmit to 
the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report describing the United States Fire Administration's research 
agenda and including a plan for implementing that agenda.

    (b) Contents of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) identify research priorities;
            (2) describe how the proposed research agenda will be 
        coordinated and integrated with the programs and capabilities of 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the 
        Department of Defense, and other Federal agencies;
            (3) identify potential roles of academic, trade, 
        professional, and non-profit associations, and other research 
        institutions in achieving the research agenda;
            (4) provide cost estimates, anticipated personnel needs, and 
        a schedule for completing the various elements of the research 
        agenda;
            (5) describe ways to leverage resources through 
        partnerships, cooperative agreements, and other means; and
            (6) discuss how the proposed research agenda will enhance 
        training, improve State and local firefighting services, impact 
        standards and codes, increase firefighter and public safety, and 
        advance firefighting techniques.

    (c) Use in Preparing Strategic Plan.--The research agenda prepared 
under this section shall be used in the preparation of the strategic 
plan required by section 103.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2301]]

SEC. 105. SURPLUS AND EXCESS FEDERAL EQUIPMENT.

    The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 33. <<NOTE: 15 USC 2229.>> SURPLUS AND EXCESS FEDERAL EQUIPMENT.

    ``The Administrator shall make publicly available, including through 
the Internet, information on procedures for acquiring surplus and excess 
equipment or property that may be useful to State and local fire, 
emergency, and hazardous material handling service providers.''.

SEC. 106. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH FEDERAL FACILITIES.

    The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended by 
section 105, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 34. <<NOTE: 15 USC 2230.>> COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH FEDERAL 
            FACILITIES.

    ``The <<NOTE: Public information. Internet.>> Administrator shall 
make publicly available, including through the Internet, information on 
procedures for establishing cooperative agreements between State and 
local fire and emergency services and Federal facilities in their region 
relating to the provision of fire and emergency services.''.

SEC. 107. NEED FOR ADDITIONAL TRAINING IN COUNTERTERRORISM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the United States Fire 
Administration shall conduct an assessment of the need for additional 
capabilities for Federal counterterrorism training of emergency response 
personnel.
    (b) Contents of Assessment.--The assessment conducted under this 
section shall include--
            (1) a review of the counterterrorism training programs 
        offered by the United States Fire Administration and other 
        Federal agencies;
            (2) an estimate of the number and types of emergency 
        response personnel that have, during the period between January 
        1, 1994, and October 1, 1999, sought training described in 
        paragraph (1), but have been unable to receive that training as 
        a result of the oversubscription of the training capabilities; 
        and
            (3) a recommendation on the need to provide additional 
        Federal counterterrorism training centers, including--
                    (A) an analysis of existing Federal facilities that 
                could be used as counterterrorism training facilities; 
                and
                    (B) a cost-benefit analysis of the establishment of 
                such counterterrorism training facilities.

    (c) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall prepare and 
submit to the Congress a report on the results of the assessment 
conducted under this section.

SEC. 108. WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE FIRE SAFETY RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    From the funds authorized to be appropriated by the amendments made 
by section 102, $1,000,000 may be expended for the Worcester Polytechnic 
Institute fire safety research program.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2302]]

SEC. 109. INTERNET AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.

    Upon the conclusion of the research under a research grant or award 
of $50,000 made with funds authorized by this title (or any amendments 
made by this title), the Administrator of the United States Fire 
Administration shall make available through the Internet home page of 
the Administration a brief summary of the results and importance of such 
research grant or award. Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require or permit the release of any information prohibited by law or 
regulation from being released to the public.

SEC. 110. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS.

    (a) 1974 Act.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act 
        of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b) of section 10 (15 
                U.S.C. 2209) and redesignating subsection (c) of that 
                section as subsection (b);
                    (B) by striking sections 26 and 27 (15 U.S.C. 2222; 
                2223);
                    (C) by striking ``(a) The'' in section 24 (15 U.S.C. 
                2220) and inserting ``The''; and
                    (D) by striking subsection (b) of section 24.
            (2) References to secretary.--The Federal Fire Prevention 
        and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 4 (15 U.S.C. 2203)--
                          (i) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon 
                      in paragraph (7);
                          (ii) by striking paragraph (8); and
                          (iii) by redesignating paragraph (9) as 
                      paragraph (8);
                    (B) by striking ``Secretary'' and inserting 
                ``Director''--
                          (i) in section 5(b) (15 U.S.C. 2204(b));
                          (ii) each place it appears in section 7 (15 
                      U.S.C. 2206);
                          (iii) the first place it appears in section 
                      11(c) (15 U.S.C. 2210(c));
                          (iv) in section 15(b)(2), (c), and (f ) (15 
                      U.S.C. 2214(b)(2), (c), and (f ));
                          (v) the second place it appears in section 
                      15(e)(1)(A) (15 U.S.C. 2214(e)(1)(A));
                          (vi) in section 16 (15 U.S.C. 2215);
                          (vii) the second place it appears in section 
                      19(a) (42 U.S.C. 290a(a));
                          (viii) both places it appears in section 20 
                      (15 U.S.C. 2217); and
                          (ix) in section 21(c) (15 U.S.C. 2218(c)); and
                    (C) in section 15, by striking ``Secretary's'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``Director's''.

    (b) Department of Commerce.--Section 12 of the Act of February 14, 
1903 (15 U.S.C. 1511) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and'' after ``Census;'' in paragraph (5);
            (2) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (6).

[[Page 114 STAT. 2303]]

SEC. 111. NATIONAL FIRE ACADEMY CURRICULUM REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the United States Fire 
Administration, in consultation with the Board of Visitors and 
representatives of trade and professional associations, State and local 
firefighting services, and other appropriate entities, shall conduct a 
review of the courses of instruction available at the National Fire 
Academy to ensure that they are up-to-date and complement, not 
duplicate, courses of instruction offered 
elsewhere. <<NOTE: Deadline. Report.>>  Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall prepare 
and submit a report to the Committee on Science of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate.

    (b) Contents of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) examine and assess the courses of instruction offered by 
        the National Fire Academy;
            (2) identify redundant and out-of-date courses of 
        instruction;
            (3) examine the current and future impact of information 
        technology on National Fire Academy curricula, methods of 
        instruction, and delivery of services; and
            (4) make recommendations for updating the curriculum, 
        methods of instruction, and delivery of services by the National 
        Fire Academy considering current and future needs, State-based 
        curricula, advances in information technologies, and other 
        relevant factors.

SEC. 112. REPEAL OF EXCEPTION TO FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENT.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 4 of Public Law 103-195 (107 Stat. 2298) is 
hereby repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall take effect 1 year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 113. NATIONAL FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS FOUNDATION TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--Section 151302 of title 36, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) primarily--
                    ``(A) to encourage, accept, and administer private 
                gifts of property for the benefit of the National Fallen 
                Firefighters' Memorial and the annual memorial service 
                associated with the memorial; and
                    ``(B) to, in coordination with the Federal 
                Government and fire services (as that term is defined in 
                section 4 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act 
                of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2203)), plan, direct, and manage the 
                memorial service referred to in subparagraph (A);'';
            (2) by inserting ``and Federal'' in paragraph (2) after 
        ``non-Federal'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``State and local'' and inserting 
                ``Federal, State, and local''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
            (4) by striking ``firefighters.'' in paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``firefighters;''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 114 STAT. 2304]]

            ``(5) to provide for a national program to assist families 
        of fallen firefighters and fire departments in dealing with 
        line-of-duty deaths of those firefighters; and
            ``(6) to promote national, State, and local initiatives to 
        increase public awareness of fire and life safety.''.

    (b) Board of Directors.--Section 151303 of title 36, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (f ) and (g) and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(f ) Status and Compensation.--
            ``(1) Appointment to the board shall not constitute 
        employment by or the holding of an office of the United States.
            ``(2) Members of the board shall serve without 
        compensation.''; and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).

    (c) Officers and Employees.--Section 151304 of title 36, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``not more than 2'' in subsection (a); and
            (2) by striking ``are not'' in subsection (b)(1) and 
        inserting ``shall not be considered''.

    (d) Support by the Administrator.--Section 151307(a)(1) of title 36, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Administrator'' and inserting ``During 
        the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the 
        Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2000, the 
        Administrator''; and
            (2) by striking ``shall'' in subparagraph (B) and inserting 
        ``may''.

    TITLE <<NOTE: Earthquake Hazards Reduction Authorization Act of 
2000.>> II--EARTHQUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION

SEC. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7701 note.>> 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Earthquake Hazards Reduction 
Authorization Act of 2000''.

SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Federal Emergency Management Agency.--Section 12(a)(7) of the 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7706(a)(7)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after ``1998,''; and
            (2) by striking ``1999.'' and inserting ``1999; $19,861,000 
        for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, of which $450,000 
        is for National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Program-eligible 
        efforts of an established multi-state consortium to reduce the 
        unacceptable threat of earthquake damages in the New Madrid 
        seismic region through efforts to enhance preparedness, 
        response, recovery, and mitigation; $20,705,000 for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 2002; and $21,585,000 for the fiscal 
        year ending September 30, 2003.''.

    (b) United States Geological Survey.--Section 12(b) of the 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7706(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``operated by the Agency.'' the 
        following: ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for purposes of carrying out, through

[[Page 114 STAT. 2305]]

        the Director of the United States Geological Survey, the 
        responsibilities that may be assigned to the Director under this 
        Act $48,360,000 for fiscal year 2001, of which $3,500,000 is for 
        the Global Seismic Network and $100,000 is for the Scientific 
        Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee established under section 
        210 of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Authorization Act of 
        2000; $50,415,000 for fiscal year 2002, of which $3,600,000 is 
        for the Global Seismic Network and $100,000 is for the 
        Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee; and 
        $52,558,000 for fiscal year 2003, of which $3,700,000 is for the 
        Global Seismic Network and $100,000 is for the Scientific 
        Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee.'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (3) by striking ``1999,'' at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting ``1999;''; and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) $9,000,000 of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
        for fiscal year 2001;
            ``(4) $9,250,000 of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
        for fiscal year 2002; and
            ``(5) $9,500,000 of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
        for fiscal year 2003,''.

    (c) Real-time Seismic Hazard Warning System.--Section 2(a)(7) of the 
Act entitled ``An Act To authorize appropriations for carrying out the 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 for fiscal years 1998 and 1999, 
and for other purposes'' (111 Stat. 1159; 42 U.S.C. 7704 note) is 
amended by striking ``1999.'' and inserting ``1999; $2,600,000 for 
fiscal year 2001; $2,710,000 for fiscal year 2002; and $2,825,000 for 
fiscal year 2003.''.
    (d) National Science Foundation.--Section 12(c) of the Earthquake 
Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7706(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1998, and'' and inserting ``1998,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``1999.'' the following: ``There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the National Science Foundation 
        $19,000,000 for engineering research and $11,900,000 for 
        geosciences research for fiscal year 2001; $19,808,000 for 
        engineering research and $12,406,000 for geosciences research 
        for fiscal year 2002; and $20,650,000 for engineering research 
        and $12,933,000 for geosciences research for fiscal year 
        2003.''.

    (e) National Institute of Standards and Technology.--Section 12(d) 
of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7706(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``1998, and'' and inserting ``1998,''; and
            (2) by striking ``1999.'' and inserting ``1999, $2,332,000 
        for fiscal year 2001, $2,431,000 for fiscal year 2002, and 
        $2,534,300 for fiscal year 2003.''.

SEC. 203. REPEALS.

    Section 10 and subsections (e) and (f ) of section 12 of the 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7705d and 7706(e) 
and (f )) are repealed.

SEC. 204. ADVANCED NATIONAL SEISMIC RESEARCH AND MONITORING SYSTEM.

    The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

[[Page 114 STAT. 2306]]

``SEC. 13. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7707.>> ADVANCED NATIONAL SEISMIC RESEARCH AND 
            MONITORING SYSTEM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Director of the United States Geological 
Survey shall establish and operate an Advanced National Seismic Research 
and Monitoring System. The purpose of such system shall be to organize, 
modernize, standardize, and stabilize the national, regional, and urban 
seismic monitoring systems in the United States, including sensors, 
recorders, and data analysis centers, into a coordinated system that 
will measure and record the full range of frequencies and amplitudes 
exhibited by seismic waves, in order to enhance earthquake research and 
warning capabilities.
    ``(b) Management <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Plan.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction 
Authorization Act of 2000, the Director of the United States Geological 
Survey shall transmit to the Congress a 5-year management plan for 
establishing and operating the Advanced National Seismic Research and 
Monitoring System. The plan shall include annual cost estimates for both 
modernization and operation, milestones, standards, and performance 
goals, as well as plans for securing the participation of all existing 
networks in the Advanced National Seismic Research and Monitoring System 
and for establishing new, or enhancing existing, partnerships to 
leverage resources.

    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) Expansion and modernization.--In addition to amounts 
        appropriated under section 12(b), there are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, to be used by the 
        Director of the United States Geological Survey to establish the 
        Advanced National Seismic Research and Monitoring System--
                    ``(A) $33,500,000 for fiscal year 2002;
                    ``(B) $33,700,000 for fiscal year 2003;
                    ``(C) $35,100,000 for fiscal year 2004;
                    ``(D) $35,000,000 for fiscal year 2005; and
                    ``(E) $33,500,000 for fiscal year 2006.
            ``(2) Operation.--In addition to amounts appropriated under 
        section 12(b), there are authorized to be appropriated to the 
        Secretary of the Interior, to be used by the Director of the 
        United States Geological Survey to operate the Advanced National 
        Seismic Research and Monitoring System--
                    ``(A) $4,500,000 for fiscal year 2002; and
                    ``(B) $10,300,000 for fiscal year 2003.''.

SEC. 205. NETWORK FOR EARTHQUAKE ENGINEERING SIMULATION.

    The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701 et 
seq.) is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7708.>> 14. NETWORK FOR EARTHQUAKE ENGINEERING 
            SIMULATION.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Director of the National Science 
Foundation shall establish the George E. Brown, Jr. Network for 
Earthquake Engineering Simulation that will upgrade, link, and integrate 
a system of geographically distributed experimental facilities for 
earthquake engineering testing of full-sized structures and their 
components and partial-scale physical models. The system shall be 
integrated through networking software so that integrated

[[Page 114 STAT. 2307]]

models and databases can be used to create model-based simulation, and 
the components of the system shall be interconnected with a computer 
network and allow for remote access, information sharing, and 
collaborative research.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
appropriated under section 12(c), there are authorized to be 
appropriated to the National Science Foundation for the George E. Brown, 
Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation--
            ``(1) $28,200,000 for fiscal year 2001;
            ``(2) $24,400,000 for fiscal year 2002;
            ``(3) $4,500,000 for fiscal year 2003; and
            ``(4) $17,000,000 for fiscal year 2004.''.

SEC. 206. BUDGET COORDINATION.

    Section 5 of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 
7704) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (A) of subsection (b)(1) and 
        redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (F) of subsection (b)(1) 
        as subparagraphs (A) through (E), respectively; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) Budget Coordination.--
            ``(1) Guidance.--The Agency shall each year provide guidance 
        to the other Program agencies concerning the preparation of 
        requests for appropriations for activities related to the 
        Program, and shall prepare, in conjunction with the other 
        Program agencies, an annual Program budget to be submitted to 
        the Office of Management and Budget.
            ``(2) Reports.--Each Program agency shall include with its 
        annual request for appropriations submitted to the Office of 
        Management and Budget a report that--
                    ``(A) identifies each element of the proposed 
                Program activities of the agency;
                    ``(B) specifies how each of these activities 
                contributes to the Program; and
                    ``(C) states the portion of its request for 
                appropriations allocated to each element of the 
                Program.''.

SEC. 207. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7701 note.>> REPORT ON AT-RISK POPULATIONS.

    Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and after a period for public comment, the 
Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall transmit to 
the Congress a report describing the elements of the Program that 
specifically address the needs of at-risk populations, including the 
elderly, persons with disabilities, non-English-speaking families, 
single-parent households, and the poor. Such report shall also identify 
additional actions that could be taken to address those needs and make 
recommendations for any additional legislative authority required to 
take such actions.

SEC. 208. PUBLIC ACCESS TO EARTHQUAKE INFORMATION.

    Section 5(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 
1977 (42 U.S.C. 7704(b)(2)(A)(ii)) is amended by inserting ``, and 
development of means of increasing public access to available locality-
specific information that may assist the public in preparing for or 
responding to earthquakes'' after ``and the general public''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2308]]

SEC. 209. LIFELINES.

    Section 4(6) of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 
U.S.C. 7703(6)) is amended by inserting ``and infrastructure'' after 
``communication facilities''.

SEC. 210. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7709.>> SCIENTIFIC EARTHQUAKE STUDIES ADVISORY 
            COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director of the United States Geological 
Survey shall establish a Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory 
Committee.
    (b) Organization.--The Director shall establish procedures for 
selection of individuals not employed by the Federal Government who are 
qualified in the seismic sciences and other appropriate fields and may, 
pursuant to such procedures, select up to 10 individuals, one of whom 
shall be designated Chairman, to serve on the Advisory Committee. 
Selection of individuals for the Advisory Committee shall be based 
solely on established records of distinguished service, and the Director 
shall ensure that a reasonable cross-section of views and expertise is 
represented. In selecting individuals to serve on the Advisory 
Committee, the Director shall seek and give due consideration to 
recommendations from the National Academy of Sciences, professional 
societies, and other appropriate organizations.
    (c) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall meet at such times and 
places as may be designated by the Chairman in consultation with the 
Director.
    (d) Duties.--The <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> Advisory Committee 
shall advise the Director on matters relating to the United States 
Geological Survey's participation in the National Earthquake Hazards 
Reduction Program, including the United States Geological Survey's 
roles, goals, and objectives within that Program, its capabilities and 
research needs, guidance on achieving major objectives, and establishing 
and measuring performance goals. The Advisory Committee shall issue an 
annual report to the Director for submission to Congress on or before 
September 30 of each year. The report shall describe the Advisory 
Committee's activities and address policy issues or matters that affect 
the United States Geological Survey's participation in the National 
Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program.

    Approved November 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1550 (S. 1639):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-133 (Comm. on Science).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-384 accompanying S. 1639 (Comm. on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    May 11, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Oct. 18, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    Oct. 27, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment with amendments.
                                    Oct. 31, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendments.

                                  <all>