[106th Congress Public Law 69]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ069.106]


[[Page 985]]

 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 
                                  2000

[[Page 113 STAT. 986]]

Public Law 106-69
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 2084]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000.>>  That 
the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                    Immediate Office of the Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the 
Secretary, $1,867,000.

                Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary

    For necessary expenses of the Immediate Office of the Deputy 
Secretary, $600,000.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$9,000,000.

              Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy, $2,824,000.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Aviation and International Affairs, $7,650,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation up to $1,250,000 in funds received in user fees.

[[Page 113 STAT. 987]]

        Office of the Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Budget and Programs, $6,870,000, including not to exceed $45,000 for 
allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

       Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Governmental Affairs, $2,039,000.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Administration, $17,767,000.

                        Office of Public Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Public Affairs, $1,800,000.

                          Executive Secretariat

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Secretariat, $1,102,000.

                        Board of Contract Appeals

    For necessary expenses of the Board of Contract Appeals, $520,000.

         Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization, $1,222,000.

                   Office of Intelligence and Security

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intelligence and Security, 
$1,454,000.

                 Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $5,075,000.

                         Office of Intermodalism

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Intermodalism, $1,062,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $7,200,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 988]]

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $3,300,000.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$148,673,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That the preceding limitation 
shall not apply to activities associated with departmental Year 2000 
conversion activities: Provided further, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above limitation on operating 
expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: Provided further, That no 
funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of the Department shall be 
transferred to the Transportation Administrative Service Center without 
the approval of the agency modal administrator: Provided further, That 
no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.

                Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,500,000, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 
332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $13,775,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry 
out the direct loan program, $400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center outreach 
activities, $2,900,000, of which $2,635,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2001: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these 
funds may be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare; $2,781,000,000, of which $300,000,000 shall be 
available for defense-related activities; and of which $25,000,000 shall 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated

[[Page 113 STAT. 989]]

in this or any other Act shall be available for pay for administrative 
expenses in connection with shipping commissioners in the United States: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for expenses incurred for yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 
12109, except to the extent fees are collected from yacht owners and 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That the Commandant 
shall reduce both military and civilian employment levels for the 
purpose of complying with Executive Order No. 12839: Provided further, 
That up to $615,000 in user fees collected pursuant to section 1111 of 
Public Law 104-324 shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting 
collections in fiscal year 2000: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Commandant of the Coast Guard may 
transfer certain parcels of real property located at Sitka, Japonski 
Island, Alaska to the State of Alaska for the purpose of airport 
expansion, provided that the Commandant determines that the Coast Guard 
has been indemnified for any loss, damage, or destruction of any 
structures or other improvements on the lands to be conveyed. No other 
provision of law shall otherwise make the real property improvements on 
Japonski Island ineligible for Federal funding by virtue of any 
consideration received by the Coast Guard for such improvements: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for the Coast Guard to plan, finalize, or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new maritime user fees not specifically authorized by 
law after the date of the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Transportation may use any surplus funds that are made 
available to the Secretary, to the maximum extent practicable, for drug 
interdiction activities of the Coast Guard.

               Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, and 
improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $389,326,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of 
which $134,560,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate or 
improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain available 
until September 30, 2004; $44,210,000 shall be available to acquire new 
aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002; $51,626,000 shall be available for other equipment, 
to remain available until September 30, 2002; $63,800,000 shall be 
available for shore facilities and aids to navigation facilities, to 
remain available until September 30, 2002; $50,930,000 shall be 
available for personnel compensation and benefits and related costs, to 
remain available until September 30, 2001; and $44,200,000 for the 
Integrated Deepwater Systems program, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002: Provided, That the Commandant of the Coast Guard is 
authorized to dispose of, by sale at fair market value, all rights, 
title, and interest of any United States entity on behalf of the Coast 
Guard in HU-25 aircraft and Coast Guard property, and improvements 
thereto, in South Haven, Michigan; ESMT Manasquan, New Jersey; Petaluma, 
California; ESMT Portsmouth, New Hampshire; Station Clair Flats, 
Michigan; and Aids to Navigation Team Huron, Ohio: Provided further, 
That all proceeds from the sale of properties listed under this heading, 
and from the

[[Page 113 STAT. 990]]

sale of HU-25 aircraft, shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and made available only for the Integrated 
Deepwater Systems program, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2002: Provided further, That obligations made pursuant to 
the provisions of this Act for the Integrated Deepwater Systems program 
may not exceed $50,000,000 during fiscal year 2000: Provided further, 
That upon initial submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2001 
President's budget, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to 
the Congress a comprehensive capital investment plan for the United 
States Coast Guard which includes funding for each budget line item for 
fiscal years 2001 through 2005, with total funding for each year of the 
plan constrained to the funding targets for those years as estimated and 
approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $17,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, and 
payments under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor 
Benefits Plans, and for payments for medical care of retired personnel 
and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 
ch. 55), $730,327,000.

                            Reserve Training

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized 
by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and supplies, 
equipment, and services; $72,000,000: Provided, That no more than 
$21,500,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Coast Guard to assess direct charges on the Coast 
Guard Reserves for items or activities which were not so charged during 
fiscal year 1997.

               Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $19,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to and used

[[Page 113 STAT. 991]]

for the purposes of this appropriation funds received from State and 
local governments, other public authorities, private sources, and 
foreign countries, for expenses incurred for research, development, 
testing, and evaluation.

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, 
and carrying out the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 
49, United States Code, or other provisions of law authorizing the 
obligation of funds for similar programs of airport and airway 
development or improvement, lease or purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only, in addition to amounts made available by 
Public Law 104-264, $5,900,000,000 from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for the Federal Aviation Administration to plan, finalize, or implement 
any regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not 
specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to this appropriation 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, foreign 
authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses 
incurred in the provision of agency services, including receipts for the 
maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, and for 
issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including airman, 
aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related thereto, 
or for processing major repair or alteration forms: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be 
for the contract tower cost-sharing program and $600,000 shall be for 
the Centennial of Flight Commission: Provided further, That funds may be 
used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
organization to assist in the development of aviation safety standards: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for new applicants for the second career training program: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation 
Administration employee unless such employee actually performed work 
during the time corresponding to such premium pay: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to 
operate a manned auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous 
United States: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may 
be used for the Federal Aviation Administration to enter into a 
multiyear lease greater than 5 years in length or greater than 
$100,000,000 in value unless such lease is specifically authorized by 
the Congress and appropriations have been provided to fully cover the 
Federal Government's contingent liabilities: Provided further, That no 
more than $24,162,700 of funds appropriated to the

[[Page 113 STAT. 992]]

Federal Aviation Administration in this Act may be used for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for 
aeronautical charting and cartography are available for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center: Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may 
be used for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to sign a lease 
for satellite services related to the global positioning system (GPS) 
wide area augmentation system until the administrator of FAA certifies 
in writing to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that FAA 
has conducted a lease versus buy analysis which indicates that such 
lease will result in the lowest overall cost to the agency.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, 
establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air 
navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as authorized under 
part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including 
initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering 
and service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; and construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under this 
head; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,075,000,000, of which $1,780,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2002, and of which $295,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2000: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities: 
Provided further, That upon initial submission to the Congress of the 
fiscal year 2001 President's budget, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall transmit to the Congress a comprehensive capital investment plan 
for the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2001 through 2005, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
Federal Aviation Administration to enter into a capital lease agreement 
unless appropriations have been provided to fully cover the Federal 
Government's contingent liabilities at the time the lease agreement is 
signed.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                              (rescission)

    Of the amount provided under this heading in Public Law 105-66, 
$30,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 113 STAT. 993]]

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII 
of title 49, United States Code, including construction of experimental 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
$156,495,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for administration of such programs; for 
administration of programs under section 40117; and for inspection 
activities and administration of airport safety programs, including 
those related to airport operating certificates under section 44706 of 
title 49, United States Code, $1,750,000,000, to be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
for the planning or execution of programs the obligations for which are 
in excess of $1,950,000,000 in fiscal year 2000, notwithstanding section 
47117(h) of title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than $45,000,000 of 
funds limited under this heading shall be obligated for administration: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
the event of a lapse in authorization of the grants program under this 
heading, funding available under Federal Aviation Administration, 
``Operations'' may be obligated for administration during the time 
period of the lapse in authorization, at the rate corresponding to the 
maximum annual obligation level of $45,000,000: Provided further, That 
total obligations from all sources in fiscal year 2000 for 
administration may not exceed $45,000,000.

                    Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

[[Page 113 STAT. 994]]

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                  Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration not to exceed $376,072,000 shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, 
That $70,484,000 shall be available to carry out the functions and 
operations of the Office of Motor Carriers: Provided further, That of 
the funds available under section 104(a) of title 23, United States 
Code: $6,000,000 shall be available for Commercial Remote Sensing 
Products and Spatial Information Technologies under section 5113 of 
Public Law 105-178, as amended; $5,000,000 shall be available for 
Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System program, as 
authorized; $8,000,000 shall be available for National Historic Covered 
Bridge Preservation Program under section 1224 of Public Law 105-178, as 
amended; $15,000,000 shall be available to the University of Alabama in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, for research activities at the Transportation 
Research Institute and to construct a building to house the Institute, 
and shall remain available until expended; $18,300,000 shall be 
available for the Indian Reservation Roads Program under section 204 of 
title 23, United States Code; $16,400,000 shall be available for the 
Public Lands Highways Program under section 204 of title 23, United 
States Code; $11,000,000 shall be available for the Park Roads and 
Parkways Program under section 204 of title 23, United States Code; 
$1,300,000 shall be available for the Refuge Road Program under section 
204 of title 23, United States Code; $10,000,000 shall be available for 
the Transportation and Community and System Preservation pilot program 
under section 1221 of Public Law 105-178; and $7,500,000 shall be 
available for ``Child Passenger Protection Education Grants'' under 
section 2003(b) of Public Law 105-178, as amended.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>>  of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs, the 
obligations for which are in excess of $27,701,350,000 for Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 2000: 
Provided, That within the $27,701,350,000 obligation limitation on 
Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs, not more 
than $391,450,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs for transportation research (sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 
507, and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 
of title 49, United States Code, as amended; and sections 5112 and 5204-
5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2000; not more than 
$20,000,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution of 
programs for the Magnetic Levitation Transportation Technology 
Deployment Program (section 1218 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 
2000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available to the 
Federal Railroad Administration

[[Page 113 STAT. 995]]

for administrative expenses and technical assistance in connection with 
such program; not more than $31,000,000 shall be available for the 
implementation or execution of programs for the Bureau of Transportation 
Statistics (section 111 of title 49, United States Code) for fiscal year 
2000: Provided further, That within the $211,200,000 obligation 
limitation on Intelligent Transportation Systems, the following sums 
shall be made available for Intelligent Transportation System projects 
in the following specified areas:
            Albuquerque, New Mexico, $2,000,000;
            Arapahoe County, Colorado, $1,000,000;
            Branson, Missouri, $1,000,000;
            Central Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            Charlotte, North Carolina, $1,000,000;
            Chicago, Illinois, $1,000,000;
            City of Superior and Douglas County, Wisconsin, $1,000,000;
            Clay County, Missouri, $300,000;
            Clearwater, Florida, $3,500,000;
            College Station, Texas, $1,000,000;
            Central Ohio, $1,000,000;
            Commonwealth of Virginia, $4,000,000;
            Corpus Christi, Texas, $1,500,000;
            Delaware River, Pennsylvania, $1,000,000;
            Fairfield, California, $750,000;
            Fargo, North Dakota, $1,000,000;
            Florida Bay County, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Fort Worth, Texas, $2,500,000;
            Grand Forks, North Dakota, $500,000;
            Greater Metropolitan Capital Region, District of Columbia, 
        $5,000,000;
            Greater Yellowstone, Montana, $1,000,000;
            Houma, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            Houston, Texas, $1,500,000;
            Huntsville, Alabama, $500,000;
            Inglewood, California, $1,000,000;
            Jefferson County, Colorado, $1,500,000;
            Kansas City, Missouri, $1,000,000;
            Las Vegas, Nevada, $2,800,000;
            Los Angeles, California, $1,000,000;
            Miami, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Mission Viejo, California, $1,000,000;
            Monroe County, New York, $1,000,000;
            Nashville, Tennessee, $1,000,000;
            Northeast Florida, $1,000,000;
            Oakland, California, $500,000;
            Oakland County, Michigan, $1,000,000;
            Oxford, Mississippi, $1,500,000;
            Pennsylvania Turnpike, Pennsylvania, $2,500,000;
            Pueblo, Colorado, $1,000,000;
            Puget Sound, Washington, $1,000,000;
            Reno/Tahoe, California/Nevada, $500,000;
            Rensselaer County, New York, $1,000,000;
            Sacramento County, California, $1,000,000;
            Salt Lake City, Utah, $3,000,000;
            San Francisco, California, $1,000,000;
            Santa Clara, California, $1,000,000;
            Santa Teresa, New Mexico, $1,000,000;

[[Page 113 STAT. 996]]

            Seattle, Washington, $2,100,000;
            Shenandoah Valley, Virginia, $2,500,000;
            Shreveport, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            Silicon Valley, California, $1,000,000;
            Southeast Michigan, $2,000,000;
            Spokane, Washington, $500,000;
            St. Louis, Missouri, $1,000,000;
            State of Alabama, $1,300,000;
            State of Alaska, $3,000,000;
            State of Arizona, $1,000,000;
            State of Colorado, $1,500,000;
            State of Delaware, $2,000,000;
            State of Idaho, $2,000,000;
            State of Illinois, $1,500,000;
            State of Maryland, $2,000,000;
            State of Minnesota, $7,000,000;
            State of Montana, $1,000,000;
            State of Nebraska, $500,000;
            State of Oregon, $1,000,000;
            State of Texas, $4,000,000;
            State of Vermont rural systems, $1,000,000;
            States of New Jersey and New York, $2,000,000;
            Statewide Transcom/Transmit upgrades, New Jersey, 
        $4,000,000;
            Tacoma Puyallup, Washington, $500,000;
            Thurston, Washington, $1,000,000;
            Towamencin, Pennsylvania, $600,000;
            Wausau-Stevens Point-Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin, 
        $1,500,000;
            Wayne County, Michigan, $1,000,000:

Provided further, That, notwithstanding Public Law 105-178 as amended, 
funds authorized under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2000 shall be apportioned based on each State's percentage 
share of funding provided for under section 105 of title 23, United 
States Code, for fiscal year 2000, except that before such 
apportionments are made, $90,000,000 shall be set aside for projects 
authorized under section 1602 of Public Law 105-178 as amended, and 
$8,000,000 shall be set aside for the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge 
project authorized by section 404 of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge 
Authority Act of 1995 as amended. Of the funds to be apportioned under 
section 110 for fiscal year 2000, the Secretary shall ensure that such 
funds are apportioned for the Interstate Maintenance program, the 
National Highway system program, the bridge program, the surface 
transportation program, and the congestion mitigation and air quality 
program in the same ratio that each State is apportioned funds for such 
program in fiscal year 2000 but for this section: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall, 
at the request of the State of Nevada, transfer up to $10,000,000 of 
Minimum Guarantee apportionments, and an equal amount of obligation 
authority, to the State of California for use on High Priority Project 
No. 829 ``Widen I-15 in San Bernardino County'', section 1602 of Public 
Law 105-178.

[[Page 113 STAT. 997]]

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For carrying out the provisions of title 23, United States Code, 
that are attributable to Federal-aid highways, including the National 
Scenic and Recreational Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not 
otherwise provided, including reimbursement for sums expended pursuant 
to the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 308, $26,000,000,000 or so much thereof 
as may be available in and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                       Motor Carrier Safety Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102, 
$105,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $105,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants''.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                         Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 
49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United 
States Code, $87,400,000 of which $62,928,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, finalize, or implement 
any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of title 49 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining to a grading standard 
that is different from the three grading standards (treadwear, traction, 
and temperature resistance) already in effect.

                         Operations and Research

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2000 are in excess of 
$72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.

[[Page 113 STAT. 998]]

                        National Driver Register

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until expended.

                      Highway Traffic Safety Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, $206,800,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2000, are in excess of 
$206,800,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 
411 of which $152,800,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 
23 U.S.C. 402, $10,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant Protection Incentive 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, $36,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410, 
$8,000,000 shall be for the ``State Highway Safety Data Grants'' under 
23 U.S.C. 411: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or 
structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $7,640,000 of the funds 
made available for section 402, not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
available for section 405, not to exceed $1,800,000 of the funds made 
available for section 410, and not to exceed $400,000 of the funds made 
available for section 411 shall be available to NHTSA for administering 
highway safety grants under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
available for section 410 ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures 
Grants'' shall be available for technical assistance to the States.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                          Safety and Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $94,288,000, of which $6,800,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 40 USC 817 note.>>  That, as 
part of the Washington Union Station transaction in which the Secretary 
assumed the first deed of trust on the property and, where the Union 
Station Redevelopment Corporation or any successor is obligated to make 
payments on such deed of trust on the Secretary's behalf, including 
payments on and after September 30, 1988, the Secretary is authorized to 
receive such payments directly from the Union Station Redevelopment 
Corporation, credit them to the

[[Page 113 STAT. 999]]

appropriation charged for the first deed of trust, and make payments on 
the first deed of trust with those funds: Provided further, That such 
additional sums as may be necessary for payment on the first deed of 
trust may be advanced by the Administrator from unobligated balances 
available to the Federal Railroad Administration, to be reimbursed from 
payments received from the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation.

                    Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$22,464,000, to remain available until expended.

             Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to section 
512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times as 
may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee 
of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of 
such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 502 of 
such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan guarantee commitments 
shall be made using Federal funds for the credit risk premium during 
fiscal year 2000.

                     Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 26101 and 26102, $27,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $10,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations, to remain available 
until expended.

                      Rhode Island Rail Development

    For the costs associated with construction of a third track on the 
Northeast Corridor between Davisville and Central Falls, Rhode Island, 
with sufficient clearance to accommodate double stack freight cars, 
$10,000,000 to be matched by the State of Rhode Island or its designee 
on a dollar-for-dollar basis and to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available under this head shall be 
obligated until the enactment of authorizing legislation for the ``Rhode 
Island Rail Development'' program.

      Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation as authorized by 49 U.S.C.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1000]]

24104(a), $571,000,000 to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the Secretary shall not obligate more than $228,400,000 prior to 
September 30, 2000.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $12,000,000: Provided, That no more than $60,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That the Federal Transit Administration will reimburse the 
Department of Transportation Inspector General $1,500,000 for costs 
associated with the audit and review of new fixed guideway systems.

                             Formula Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $619,600,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,098,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 3008 of Public 
Law 105-178, the $50,000,000 to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308 shall be 
transferred to and merged with funding provided for the replacement, 
rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related equipment and the 
construction of bus-related facilities under ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Capital investment grants''.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                      Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $21,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $107,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)); $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315); 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)); $49,632,000 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305); $10,368,000 is available for 
State planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $29,500,000 is available for the 
national planning and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314): Provided 
further, That of the total budget authority made available for the 
national planning and research program, the Federal Transit 
Administration shall provide the following amounts for the projects and 
activities listed below:
            Zinc-air battery bus technology demonstration, $1,000,000;
            Electric vehicle information sharing and technology transfer 
        program, $750,000;

[[Page 113 STAT. 1001]]

            Portland, Maine independent transportation network, 
        $500,000;
            Wheeling, West Virginia mobility study, $250,000;
            Project ACTION, $3,000,000;
            Washoe County, Nevada transit technology, $1,250,000;
            Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority advanced electric 
        transit buses and related infrastructure, $1,500,000;
            Palm Springs, California fuel cell buses, $1,000,000;
            Gloucester, Massachusetts intermodal technology center, 
        $1,500,000;
            Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authority advanced 
        propulsion control system, $3,000,000;
            Advanced transportation and alternative fuel technology 
        consortium (CALSTART), $3,250,000;
            Safety and security programs, $5,450,000;
            International program, $1,000,000;
            Santa Barbara Electric Transit Institute, $500,000;
            Hennepin County community transportation, Minnesota, 
        $1,000,000;
            Pittsfield economic development authority electric bus 
        program, $1,350,000; and
            Citizens for Modern Transit, Missouri, $300,000.

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $4,929,270,000, to remain available until expended, and to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That $2,478,400,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$86,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
transit planning and research account: Provided further, That 
$48,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
administrative expenses account: Provided further, That $4,800,000 shall 
be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation research account: Provided further, That $60,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job access and 
reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That $1,960,800,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's capital investment 
grants account.

                        Capital Investment Grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $490,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $2,451,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, there shall be available for fixed guideway 
modernization, $980,400,000; there shall be

[[Page 113 STAT. 1002]]

available for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and 
related equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, 
$490,200,000, together with $50,000,000 transferred from ``Federal 
Transit Administration, Formula grants'', to be available for the 
following projects in amounts specified below:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 No.              State                     Project           Conference
------------------------------------------------------------------------
   1 Alaska                       Anchorage Ship Creek      $4,500,000
                                   intermodal  facility..
   2 Alaska                       Fairbanks intermodal       2,000,000
                                   rail/bus transfer
                                   facility..............
   3 Alaska                       Juneau downtown mass       1,500,000
                                   transit facility......
   4 Alaska                       North Star Borough-        3,000,000
                                   Fairbanks intermodal
                                   facility..............
   5 Alaska                       Wasilla intermodal         1,000,000
                                   facility..............
   6 Alaska                       Whittier intermodal        1,155,000
                                   facility and
                                   pedestrian overpass...
   7 Alabama                      Alabama statewide rural    2,500,000
                                   bus needs.............
   8 Alabama                      Baldwin Rural Area         1,000,000
                                   Transportation System
                                   buses.................
   9 Alabama                      Birmingham intermodal      2,000,000
                                   facility..............
  10 Alabama                      Birmingham-Jefferson       1,250,000
                                   County buses..........
  11 Alabama                      Cullman, buses.........      500,000
  12 Alabama                      Dothan Wiregrass           1,000,000
                                   Transit Authority
                                   vehicles and transit
                                   facility..............
  13 Alabama                      Escambia County buses        100,000
                                   and bus facility......
  14 Alabama                      Gees Bend Ferry              100,000
                                   facilities, Wilcox
                                   County................
  15 Alabama                      Marshall County, buses.      500,000
  16 Alabama                      Huntsville Airport         3,500,000
                                   international
                                   intermodal center.....
  17 Alabama                      Huntsville, intermodal     1,250,000
                                   facility..............
  18 Alabama                      Huntsville Space and       3,500,000
                                   Rocket Center
                                   intermodal center.....
  19 Alabama                      Jasper buses...........       50,000
  20 Alabama                      Jefferson State              200,000
                                   Community College/
                                   University of
                                   Montevallo pedestrian
                                   walkway...............
  21 Alabama                      Mobile waterfront          5,000,000
                                   terminal complex......
  22 Alabama                      Montgomery Union           3,500,000
                                   Station intermodal
                                   center and buses......
  23 Alabama                      Valley bus and bus           110,000
                                   facilities............
  24 Arkansas                     Arkansas Highway and       2,000,000
                                   Transit Department
                                   buses.................
  25 Arkansas                     Arkansas state safety        800,000
                                   and preventative
                                   maintenance facility..
  26 Arkansas                     Fayetteville,                500,000
                                   University of Arkansas
                                   Transit System buses..
  27 Arkansas                     Hot Springs,               1,560,000
                                   transportation depot
                                   and plaza.............
  28 Arkansas                     Little Rock, Central         300,000
                                   Arkansas Transit buses
  29 Arizona                      Phoenix bus and bus        3,750,000
                                   facilities............
  30 Arizona                      Phoenix South Central        500,000
                                   Avenue transit
                                   facility..............
  31 Arizona                      San Luis, bus..........       70,000
  32 Arizona                      Tucson buses...........    2,555,000
  33 Arizona                      Yuma paratransit buses.      125,000
  34 California                   California Mountain           80,000
                                   Area Regional Transit
                                   Authority fueling
                                   stations..............
  35 California                   Culver City, CityBus       1,250,000
                                   buses.................

[[Page 113 STAT. 1003]]

 
     California                   Davis, Unitrans transit      625,000
                                   maintenance facility..
  37 California                   Healdsburg, intermodal     1,000,000
                                   facility..............
  38 California                   I-5 Corridor intermodal    1,250,000
                                   transit centers.......
  39 California                   Livermore automatic        1,000,000
                                   vehicle locator
                                   program...............
  40 California                   Lodi, multimodal             850,000
                                   facility..............
  41 California                   Los Angeles County         3,000,000
                                   Metropolitan
                                   transportation
                                   authority buses.......
  42 California                   Los Angeles County         1,750,000
                                   Foothill Transit buses
                                   and HEV vehicles......
  43 California                   Los Angeles Municipal      2,250,000
                                   Transit Operators
                                   Coalition.............
  44 California                   Los Angeles, Union         1,250,000
                                   Station Gateway
                                   Intermodal Transit
                                   Center................
  45 California                   Maywood, Commerce,           800,000
                                   Bell, Cudahy,
                                   California buses and
                                   bus facilities........
  46 California                   Modesto, bus                 625,000
                                   maintenance facility..
  47 California                   Monterey, Monterey-          625,000
                                   Salinas buses.........
  48 California                   Orange County, bus and     2,000,000
                                   bus facilities........
  49 California                   Perris bus maintenance     1,250,000
                                   facility..............
  50 California                   Redlands, trolley            800,000
                                   project...............
  51 California                   Sacramento CNG buses...    1,250,000
  52 California                   San Bernardino Valley,     1,000,000
                                   CNG buses.............
  53 California                   San Bernardino train       3,000,000
                                   station...............
  54 California                   San Diego North County     3,000,000
                                   buses and CNG fueling
                                   station...............
  55 California                   Contra Costa County          250,000
                                   Connection buses......
  56 California                   San Francisco, Islais      1,250,000
                                   Creek main- tenance
                                   facility..............
  57 California                   Santa Barbara buses and    1,750,000
                                   bus facility..........
  58 California                   Santa Clarita bus          1,250,000
                                   maintenance facility..
  59 California                   Santa Cruz buses and       1,755,000
                                   bus facilities........
  60 California                   Santa Maria Valley/          240,000
                                   Santa Barbara County,
                                   buses.................
  61 California                   Santa Rosa/Cotati,           750,000
                                   Intermodal
                                   Transportation
                                   Facilities............
  62 California                   Westminster senior           150,000
                                   citizen vans..........
  63 California                   Windsor, Intermodal          750,000
                                   Facility..............
  64 California                   Woodland Hills, Warner       625,000
                                   Center Transportation
                                   Hub...................
  65 Colorado                     Boulder/Denver, RTD          625,000
                                   buses.................
  66 Colorado                     Colorado Association of    8,000,000
                                   Transit  Agencies.....
  67 Colorado                     Denver, Stapleton          1,250,000
                                   Intermodal Center.....
  68 Connecticut                  New Haven bus facility.    2,250,000
  69 Connecticut                  Norwich buses..........    2,250,000
  70 Connecticut                  Waterbury, bus facility    2,250,000
  71 Dist. of Columbia            Fuel cell bus and bus      4,850,000
                                   facilities program,
                                   Georgetown University.
  72 Dist. of Columbia            Washington, D.C.           2,500,000
                                   Intermodal
                                   Transportation Center,
                                   District..............
  73 Delaware                     New Castle County buses    2,000,000
                                   and bus  facilities...
  74 Delaware                     Delaware buses and bus       500,000
                                   facility..............
  75 Florida                      Daytona Beach,             2,500,000
                                   Intermodal Center.....
  76 Florida                      Gainesville hybrid-          500,000
                                   electric buses and
                                   facilities............
  77 Florida                      Jacksonville buses and     1,000,000
                                   bus facilities........
  78 Florida                      Lakeland, Citrus           1,250,000
                                   Connection transit
                                   vehicles and related
                                   equipment.............
  79 Florida                      Miami Beach, electric        750,000
                                   shuttle service.......

[[Page 113 STAT. 1004]]

 
  80 Florida                      Miami-Dade Transit         2,750,000
                                   buses.................
  81 Florida                      Orlando, Lynx buses and    2,000,000
                                   bus facilities........
  82 Florida                      Orlando, Downtown          2,500,000
                                   Intermodal Facility...
  83 Florida                      Palm Beach, buses......    1,000,000
  84 Florida                      Tampa HARTline buses...      500,000
  85 Georgia                      Atlanta, MARTA buses...   13,500,000
  86 Georgia                      Chatham Area Transit       3,500,000
                                   Bus Transfer Center
                                   and buses.............
  87 Georgia                      Georgia Regional           2,000,000
                                   Transportation
                                   Authority buses.......
  88 Georgia                      Georgia statewide buses    2,750,000
                                   and bus- related
                                   facilities............
  89 Hawaii                       Hawaii buses and bus       2,250,000
                                   facilities............
  90 Hawaii                       Honolulu, bus facility     2,000,000
                                   and buses.............
  91 Iowa                         Ames transit facility        700,000
                                   expansion.............
  92 Iowa                         Cedar Rapids intermodal    3,500,000
                                   facility..............
  93 Iowa                         Clinton transit              500,000
                                   facility expansion....
  94 Iowa                         Fort Dodge, Intermodal       885,000
                                   Facility (Phase II)...
  95 Iowa                         Iowa City intermodal       1,500,000
                                   facility..............
  96 Iowa                         Iowa statewide buses       2,500,000
                                   and bus facilities....
  97 Iowa                         Iowa/Illinois Transit      1,000,000
                                   Consortium bus safety
                                   and security..........
  98 Illinois                     East Moline transit          650,000
                                   center................
  99 Illinois                     Illinois statewide         8,200,000
                                   buses and bus-related
                                   equipment.............
 100 Indiana                      Gary, Transit              1,250,000
                                   Consortium buses......
 101 Indiana                      Indianapolis buses.....    5,000,000
 102 Indiana                      South Bend Urban           1,250,000
                                   Intermodal
                                   Transportation
                                   Facility..............
 103 Indiana                      West Lafayette bus         1,750,000
                                   transfer station/
                                   terminal (Wabash
                                   Landing)..............
 104 Kansas                       Girard, buses and vans.      700,000
 105 Kansas                       Johnson County, farebox      250,000
                                   equipment.............
 106 Kansas                       Kansas City buses......      750,000
 107 Kansas                       Kansas Public Transit      1,500,000
                                   Association buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 108 Kansas                       Girard Southeast Kansas      480,000
                                   Community Action
                                   Agency maintenance
                                   facility..............
 109 Kansas                       Topeka Transit downtown      600,000
                                   transfer facility.....
 110 Kansas                       Wichita, buses and bus     2,500,000
                                   facilities............
 111 Kentucky                     Transit Authority of       2,500,000
                                   Northern  Kentucky
                                   (TANK) buses..........
 112 Kentucky                     Kentucky (southern and     1,000,000
                                   eastern)  transit
                                   vehicles..............
 113 Kentucky                     Lexington (LexTran),       1,000,000
                                   maintenance  facility.
 114 Kentucky                     River City, buses......    1,500,000
 115 Louisiana                    Louisiana statewide        5,000,000
                                   buses and bus- related
                                   facilities............
 116 Massachusetts                Attleboro intermodal         500,000
                                   transit facility......
 117 Massachusetts                Brockton intermodal        1,100,000
                                   transportation center.
 118 Massachusetts                Greenfield Montague,         500,000
                                   buses.................
 119 Massachusetts                Merrimack Valley             467,500
                                   Regional Transit
                                   Authority bus
                                   facilities............
 120 Massachusetts                Montachusett, bus and      1,250,000
                                   park-and-ride
                                   facilities............
 121 Massachusetts                Pioneer Valley,              650,000
                                   alternative fuel and
                                   paratransit vehicles..
 122 Massachusetts                Pittsfield intermodal      3,600,000
                                   center................

[[Page 113 STAT. 1005]]

 
 123 Massachusetts                Springfield, Union         1,250,000
                                   Station...............
 124 Massachusetts                Swampscott, buses......       65,000
 125 Massachusetts                Westfield, intermodal        500,000
                                   transportation
                                   facility..............
 126 Massachusetts                Worcester, Union           2,500,000
                                   Station Intermodal
                                   Transportation Center.
 127 Maryland                     Maryland statewide bus    11,500,000
                                   facilities and buses..
 128 Michigan                     Detroit, transfer          3,963,000
                                   terminal facilities...
 129 Michigan                     Detroit, EZ Ride             287,000
                                   program...............
 130 Michigan                     Menominee-Delta-             250,000
                                   Schoolcraft buses.....
 131 Michigan                     Michigan statewide        22,500,000
                                   buses.................
 132 Michigan                     Port Huron, CNG fueling      500,000
                                   station...............
 133 Minnesota                    Duluth, Transit            1,000,000
                                   Authority community
                                   circulation vehicles..
 134 Minnesota                    Duluth, Transit              500,000
                                   Authority intelligent
                                   transportation systems
 135 Minnesota                    Duluth, Transit              500,000
                                   Authority Transit Hub.
 136 Minnesota                    Greater Minnesota            500,000
                                   transit authorities...
 137 Minnesota                    Northstar Corridor,       10,000,000
                                   Intermodal Facilities
                                   and buses.............
 138 Minnesota                    Twin Cities               10,000,000
                                   metropolitan buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 139 Missouri                     Columbia buses and vans      500,000
 140 Missouri                     Southeast Missouri         1,250,000
                                   transportation service
                                   rural, elderly,
                                   disabled service......
 141 Missouri                     Franklin County buses        200,000
                                   and bus  facilities...
 142 Missouri                     Jackson County buses         500,000
                                   and bus facilities....
 143 Missouri                     Kansas City Area           2,500,000
                                   Transit Authority
                                   buses and Troost
                                   transit center........
 144 Missouri                     Missouri statewide bus     3,500,000
                                   and bus  facilities...
 145 Missouri                     OATS Transit...........    1,500,000
 146 Missouri                     St. Joseph buses and         500,000
                                   vans..................
 147 Missouri                     St. Louis, buses.......    2,000,000
 148 Missouri                     St. Louis, Bi-state        1,250,000
                                   Intermodal Center.....
 149 Missouri                     Southwest Missouri         1,000,000
                                   State University park
                                   and ride facility.....
 150 Mississippi                  Harrison County            3,000,000
                                   multimodal center.....
 151 Mississippi                  Jackson, maintenance       1,000,000
                                   and administration
                                   facility project......
 152 Mississippi                  North Delta planning       1,200,000
                                   and development
                                   district, buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 153 Montana                      Missoula urban               600,000
                                   transportation
                                   district buses........
 154 North Carolina               Greensboro multimodal      3,339,000
                                   center................
 155 North Carolina               Greensboro, Transit        1,500,000
                                   Authority buses.......
 156 North Carolina               North Carolina             2,492,000
                                   statewide buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 157 North Dakota                 North Dakota statewide     1,000,000
                                   buses and bus-related
                                   facilities............
 158 New Hampshire                New Hampshire statewide    3,000,000
                                   transit  systems......
 159 New Jersey                   New Jersey Transit         5,000,000
                                   alternative fuel buses
 160 New Jersey                   New Jersey Transit         1,750,000
                                   jitney shuttle buses..
 161 New Jersey                   Newark intermodal and      1,650,000
                                   arena access
                                   improvements..........
 162 New Jersey                   Newark, Morris & Essex     1,250,000
                                   Station access and
                                   buses.................

[[Page 113 STAT. 1006]]

 
 163 New Jersey                   South Amboy, Regional      1,250,000
                                   Intermodal
                                   Transportation
                                   Initiative............
 164 New Mexico                   Albuquerque West Side      2,000,000
                                   transit facility......
 165 New Mexico                   Albuquerque, buses.....    1,250,000
 166 New Mexico                   Las Cruces buses and         750,000
                                   bus facilities........
 167 New Mexico                   Northern New Mexico        2,750,000
                                   Transit Express/Park
                                   and Ride buses........
 168 New Mexico                   Santa Fe, buses and bus    2,000,000
                                   facilities............
 169 Nevada                       Clark County Regional      2,500,000
                                   Transportation
                                   Commission buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 170 Nevada                       Lake Tahoe CNG buses...      700,000
 171 Nevada                       Washoe County transit      2,250,000
                                   improvements..........
 172 New York                     Babylon Intermodal         1,250,000
                                   Center................
 173 New York                     Buffalo, Auditorium        2,000,000
                                   Intermodal Center.....
 174 New York                     Dutchess County, Loop        521,000
                                   System buses..........
 175 New York                     Ithaca intermodal          1,125,000
                                   transportation center.
 176 New York                     Ithaca, TCAT bus           1,250,000
                                   technology
                                   improvements..........
 177 New York                     Long Island, CNG           1,250,000
                                   transit vehicles and
                                   facilities and bus
                                   replacement...........
 178 New York                     Mineola/Hicksville,        1,250,000
                                   LIRR intermodal
                                   centers...............
 179 New York                     New York City Midtown      1,000,000
                                   West 38th Street ferry
                                   terminal..............
 180 New York                     New York, West 72nd St.    1,750,000
                                   Intermodal Station....
 181 New York                     Putnam County, vans....      470,000
 182 New York                     Rensselaer intermodal      6,000,000
                                   bus facility..........
 183 New York                     Rochester buses and bus    1,000,000
                                   facility..............
 184 New York                     Syracuse, buses........    3,000,000
 185 New York                     Utica Union Station....    2,100,000
 186 New York                     Westchester County DOT,    1,250,000
                                   articulated buses.....
 187 New York                     Westchester County, Bee-     979,000
                                   Line transit system
                                   fareboxes.............
 188 New York                     Westchester County, Bee-   1,000,000
                                   Line transit system
                                   shuttle buses.........
 189 Ohio                         Cleveland, Triskett          625,000
                                   Garage bus main-
                                   tenance facility......
 190 Ohio                         Dayton, Multimodal         4,125,000
                                   Transportation Center.
 191 Ohio                         Ohio statewide buses       9,010,250
                                   and bus facilities....
 192 Oklahoma                     Oklahoma statewide bus     5,000,000
                                   facilities and buses..
 193 Oregon                       Corvallis buses and          300,000
                                   automated passenger
                                   information system....
 194 Oregon                       Lane County, Bus Rapid     4,400,000
                                   Transit, buses and
                                   facilities............
 195 Oregon                       Lincoln County Transit       250,000
                                   District buses........
 196 Oregon                       Portland, Tri-Met bus        650,000
                                   maintenance  facility.
 197 Oregon                       Portland, Tri-Met buses    1,750,000
 198 Oregon                       Salem Area Mass Transit      500,000
                                   District  natural gas
                                   buses.................
 199 Oregon                       Sandy buses............      100,000
 200 Oregon                       South Metro Area Rapid       200,000
                                   Transit (SMART)
                                   maintenance facility..
 201 Oregon                       Sunset Empire Transit        300,000
                                   District intermodal
                                   transit facility......
 202 Pennsylvania                 Allegheny County buses.    1,500,000
 203 Pennsylvania                 Altoona bus testing....    3,000,000

[[Page 113 STAT. 1007]]

 
 204 Pennsylvania                 Altoona, Metro Transit       842,000
                                   Authority buses and
                                   transit system
                                   improvements..........
 205 Pennsylvania                 Armstrong County-Mid-        150,000
                                   County, bus
                                   facilities and buses..
 206 Pennsylvania                 Bethlehem, intermodal      1,000,000
                                   facility..............
 207 Pennsylvania                 Cambria County, bus          575,000
                                   facilities and buses..
 208 Pennsylvania                 Centre Area                1,250,000
                                   Transportation
                                   Authority buses.......
 209 Pennsylvania                 Chester County, Paoli      1,000,000
                                   Transportation Center.
 210 Pennsylvania                 Erie, Metropolitan         1,000,000
                                   Transit Authority
                                   buses.................
 211 Pennsylvania                 Fayette County,            1,270,000
                                   intermodal facilities
                                   and buses.............
 212 Pennsylvania                 Lackawanna County            600,000
                                   Transit System buses..
 213 Pennsylvania                 Lackawanna County,         1,000,000
                                   intermodal bus
                                   facility..............
 214 Pennsylvania                 Mid-Mon Valley buses         250,000
                                   and bus facilities....
 215 Pennsylvania                 Norristown, parking        1,000,000
                                   garage (SEPTA)........
 216 Pennsylvania                 Philadelphia, Frankford    5,000,000
                                   Transportation Center.
 217 Pennsylvania                 Philadelphia,              1,250,000
                                   Intermodal 30th Street
                                   Station...............
 218 Pennsylvania                 Reading, BARTA             1,750,000
                                   Intermodal Trans-
                                   portation Facility....
 219 Pennsylvania                 Robinson, Towne Center     1,500,000
                                   Intermodal Facility...
 220 Pennsylvania                 Somerset County bus          175,000
                                   facilities and buses..
 221 Pennsylvania                 Towamencin Township,       1,500,000
                                   Intermodal Bus
                                   Transportation Center.
 222 Pennsylvania                 Washington County            630,000
                                   intermodal  facilities
 223 Pennsylvania                 Westmoreland County,         200,000
                                   Intermodal  Facility..
 224 Pennsylvania                 Wilkes-Barre,              1,250,000
                                   Intermodal Facility...
 225 Pennsylvania                 Williamsport bus           1,200,000
                                   facility..............
 226 Puerto Rico                  San Juan Intermodal          600,000
                                   access................
 227 Rhode Island                 Providence, buses and      3,294,000
                                   bus maintenance
                                   facility..............
 228 South Carolina               Central Midlands COG/      2,700,000
                                   Columbia transit
                                   system................
 229 South Carolina               Charleston Area            1,900,000
                                   regional
                                   transportation
                                   authority.............
 230 South Carolina               Clemson Area Transit         550,000
                                   buses and bus
                                   equipment.............
 231 South Carolina               Greenville transit           500,000
                                   authority.............
 232 South Carolina               Pee Dee buses and            900,000
                                   facilities............
 233 South Carolina               Santee-Wateree regional      400,000
                                   transportation
                                   authority.............
 234 South Carolina               South Carolina             1,220,000
                                   Statewide Virtual
                                   Transit Enterprise....
 235 South Carolina               Transit Management of        600,000
                                   Spartanburg,
                                   Incorporated (SPARTA).
 236 South Dakota                 South Dakota statewide     1,500,000
                                   bus facilities and
                                   buses.................
 237 Tennessee                    Southern Coalition for     3,500,000
                                   Advanced
                                   Transportation (SCAT)
                                   (TN, GA, FL, AL)
                                   electric buses........
 238 Texas                        Austin buses...........    1,750,000

[[Page 113 STAT. 1008]]

 
 239 Texas                        Beaumont Municipal         1,000,000
                                   Transit System buses
                                   and bus facilities....
 240 Texas                        Brazos Transit             1,000,000
                                   Authority buses and
                                   bus facilities........
 241 Texas                        El Paso Sun Metro buses    1,000,000
 242 Texas                        Fort Worth bus             2,500,000
                                   replacement (including
                                   CNG vehicles) and
                                   paratransit  vehicles.
 243 Texas                        Forth Worth intermodal     3,100,000
                                   transportation center.
 244 Texas                        Galveston buses and bus    1,000,000
                                   facilities............
 245 Texas                        Texas statewide small      5,000,000
                                   urban and rural buses.
 246 Utah                         Ogden Intermodal Center      800,000
 247 Utah                         Salt Lake City Olympics    2,500,000
                                   bus facilities........
 248 Utah                         Salt Lake City Olympics    2,500,000
                                   regional park and ride
                                   lots..................
 249 Utah                         Salt Lake City Olympics      500,000
                                   transit bus loan
                                   project...............
 250 Utah                         Utah Transit Authority,    1,500,000
                                   intermodal  facilities
 251 Utah                         Utah Transit Authority/    6,500,000
                                   Park City Transit,
                                   buses.................
 252 Virginia                     Alexandria, bus            1,000,000
                                   maintenance facility..
 253 Virginia                     Richmond, GRTC bus         1,250,000
                                   maintenance  facility.
 254 Virginia                     Statewide buses and bus    8,435,000
                                   facilities............
 255 Vermont                      Burlington multimodal      2,700,000
                                   center................
 256 Vermont                      Chittenden County            800,000
                                   Transportation
                                   Authority buses.......
 257 Vermont                      Essex Junction               500,000
                                   multimodal station
                                   rehabilitation........
 258 Vermont                      Killington-Sherburne         250,000
                                   satellite bus
                                   facility..............
 259 Washington                   Bremerton multimodal         750,000
                                   center--Sinclair's
                                   Landing...............
 260 Washington                   Sequim Clallam Transit     1,000,000
                                   multimodal center.....
 261 Washington                   Everett, Multimodal        1,950,000
                                   Transportation Center.
 262 Washington                   Grant County, Grant          500,000
                                   Transit Authority.....
 263 Washington                   Grays Harbor County,       1,250,000
                                   buses and  equipment..
 264 Washington                   King County Metro King     2,000,000
                                   Street Station........
 265 Washington                   King County Metro          1,500,000
                                   Atlantic and  Central
                                   buses.................
 266 Washington                   King County park and       1,350,000
                                   ride expansion........
 267 Washington                   Mount Vernon, buses and    1,750,000
                                   bus related facilities
 268 Washington                   Pierce County Transit        500,000
                                   buses and bus
                                   facilities............
 269 Washington                   Seattle, intermodal        1,250,000
                                   transportation
                                   terminal..............
 270 Washington                   Snohomish County,          1,250,000
                                   Community Transit
                                   buses, equipment and
                                   facilities............
 271 Washington                   Spokane, HEV buses.....    1,500,000
 272 Washington                   Tacoma Dome Station....      250,000
 273 Washington                   Vancouver Clark County     1,000,000
                                   (C-TRAN) bus
                                   facilities............
 274 Washington                   Washington State DOT       2,000,000
                                   combined small transit
                                   system buses and bus
                                   facilities............

[[Page 113 STAT. 1009]]

 
 275 Wisconsin                    Milwaukee County, buses    6,000,000
 276 Wisconsin                    Wisconsin statewide bus   14,250,000
                                   facilities and buses..
 277 West Virginia                Huntington intermodal     12,000,000
                                   facility..............
 278 West Virginia                Parkersburg, intermodal    4,500,000
                                   transportation
                                   facility..............
 279 West Virginia                West Virginia Statewide   5,000,000;
                                   Intermodal Facility
                                   and buses.............
------------------------------------------------------------------------

and there shall be available for new fixed guideway systems 
$980,400,000, to be available as follows:
            $10,400,000 for Alaska or Hawaii ferry projects;
            $45,142,000 for the Atlanta, Georgia, North line extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Austin, Texas capital metro northwest/
        north central corridor project;
            $4,750,000 for the Baltimore central LRT double track 
        project;
            $3,000,000 for the Birmingham, Alabama transit corridor;
            $1,000,000 for the Boston Urban Ring project;
            $500,000 for the Calais, Maine branch rail line regional 
        transit program;
            $2,500,000 for the Canton-Akron-Cleveland commuter rail 
        project;
            $2,500,000 for the Charleston, South Carolina Monobeam 
        corridor project;
            $4,000,000 for the Charlotte, North Carolina, north-south 
        corridor transitway project;
            $25,000,000 for the Chicago METRA commuter rail project;
            $3,500,000 for the Chicago Transit Authority Douglas branch 
        line project;
            $3,500,000 for the Chicago Transit Authority Ravenswood 
        branch line project;
            $1,000,000 for the Cincinnati northeast/northern Kentucky 
        corridor project;
            $3,500,000 for the Clark County, Nevada, fixed guideway 
        project, together with unobligated funds provided in Public Law 
        103-331 for the ``Burlington to Gloucester, New Jersey line'';
            $1,000,000 for the Cleveland Euclid corridor improvement 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Colorado Roaring Fork Valley project;
            $50,000,000 for the Dallas north central light rail 
        extension project;
            $1,000,000 for the Dayton, Ohio, light rail study;
            $3,000,000 for the Denver Southeast corridor project;
            $35,000,000 for the Denver Southwest corridor project;
            $25,000,000 for the Dulles corridor project;
            $10,000,000 for the Fort Lauderdale, Florida Tri-County 
        commuter rail project;
            $1,500,000 for the Galveston, Texas rail trolley extension 
        project;
            $10,000,000 for the Girdwood, Alaska commuter rail project;
            $7,000,000 for the Greater Albuquerque mass transit project;

[[Page 113 STAT. 1010]]

            $500,000 for the Harrisburg-Lancaster capital area transit 
        corridor 1 commuter rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Houston advanced transit program;
            $52,770,000 for the Houston regional bus project;
            $1,000,000 for the Indianapolis, Indiana Northeast Downtown 
        corridor project;
            $1,000,000 for the Johnson County, Kansas, I-35 commuter 
        rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee rail extension 
        project;
            $500,000 for the Knoxville-Memphis commuter rail feasibility 
        study;
            $2,000,000 for the Long Island Railroad East Side access 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Los Angeles-San Diego LOSSAN corridor 
        project;
            $4,000,000 for the Los Angeles Mid-City and East Side 
        corridors projects;
            $50,000,000 for the Los Angeles North Hollywood extension 
        project;
            $1,000,000 for the Lowell, Massachusetts-Nashua, New 
        Hampshire commuter rail project;
            $703,000 for the MARC commuter rail project;
            $1,500,000 for MARC expansion projects--Silver Spring 
        intermodal and Penn-Camden rail connection;
            $1,000,000 for the Massachusetts North Shore corridor 
        project;
            $2,500,000 for the Memphis, Tennessee, Medical Center rail 
        extension project;
            $1,500,000 for the Miami-Dade Transit east-west multimodal 
        corridor project;
            $1,000,000 for the Nashville, Tennessee, commuter rail 
        project;
            $99,000,000 for the New Jersey Hudson Bergen project;
            $5,000,000 for the New Jersey/New York Trans-Hudson Midtown 
        corridor;
            $1,000,000 for the New Orleans Canal Street corridor 
        project;
            $12,000,000 for the Newark rail link MOS-1 project;
            $1,000,000 for the Norfolk-Virginia Beach corridor project;
            $4,000,000 for the Northern Indiana south shore commuter 
        rail project;
            $2,000,000 for the Oceanside-Escondido, California light 
        rail system;
            $10,000,000 for temporary and permanent Olympic 
        transportation infrastructure investments: Provided, That these 
        funds shall be allocated by the Secretary based on the approved 
        transportation management plan for the Salt Lake City 2002 
        Winter Olympic Games: Provided further, That none of these funds 
        shall be available for rail extensions;
            $1,000,000 for the Orange County, California, transitway 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the Orlando Lynx light rail project 
        (phase 1);
            $500,000 for the Palm Beach, Broward and Miami-Dade counties 
        rail corridor;

[[Page 113 STAT. 1011]]

            $4,000,000 for the Philadelphia-Reading SETPA Schuylkill 
        Valley metro project;
            $1,000,000 for the Philadelphia SEPTA cross-county metro;
            $5,000,000 for the Phoenix metropolitan area transit 
        project;
            $2,500,000 for the Pinellas County, Florida, mobility 
        initiative project;
            $10,000,000 for the Pittsburgh North Shore-central business 
        district corridor project;
            $8,000,000 for the Pittsburgh stage II light rail project;
            $11,062,000 for the Portland Westside light rail transit 
        project;
            $25,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Link light rail project;
            $5,000,000 for the Puget Sound RTA Sounder commuter rail 
        project;
            $8,000,000 for the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Triangle 
        transit project;
            $25,000,000 for the Sacramento south corridor LRT project;
            $37,928,000 for the Utah north/south light rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the San Bernardino, California Metrolink 
        project;
            $5,000,000 for the San Diego Mid Coast corridor project;
            $20,000,000 for the San Diego Mission Valley East light rail 
        transit project;
            $65,000,000 for the San Francisco BART extension to the 
        airport project;
            $20,000,000 for the San Jose Tasman West light rail project;
            $32,000,000 for the San Juan Tren Urbano project;
            $3,000,000 for the Santa Fe/El Dorado, New Mexico rail link;
            $53,895,000 for the South Boston piers transitway;
            $1,000,000 for the South Dekalb-Lindbergh, Georgia, corridor 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Spokane, Washington, South Valley 
        corridor light rail project;
            $2,500,000 for the St. Louis, Missouri, MetroLink cross 
        county corridor project;
            $50,000,000 for the St. Louis-St. Clair County MetroLink 
        light rail (phase II) extension project;
            $1,000,000 for the Stamford, Connecticut fixed guideway 
        connector;
            $1,000,000 for the Stockton, California Altamont commuter 
        rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the Tampa Bay regional rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Twin Cities Transitways projects;
            $42,800,000 for the Twin Cities Transitways--Hiawatha 
        corridor project;
            $2,200,000 for the Virginia Railway Express commuter rail 
        project;
            $4,750,000 for the Washington Metro-Blue Line extension-
        Addison Road (Largo) project;
            $1,000,000 for the West Trenton, New Jersey, rail project;
            $2,000,000 for the Whitehall ferry terminal reconstruction 
        project;

[[Page 113 STAT. 1012]]

            $1,000,000 for the Wilmington, Delaware downtown transit 
        connector; and
            $500,000 for the Wilsonville to Washington County, Oregon 
        connection to Westside.

                          Discretionary Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of previous 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5338(b), $1,500,000,000, 
to remain available until expended and to be derived from the Mass 
Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund.

                  Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $15,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $75,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes.

              SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

              Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

                     (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $12,042,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                      Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $32,061,000, of which $645,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $3,704,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended, funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public

[[Page 113 STAT. 1013]]

authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training, for 
reports publication and dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred 
in performance of hazardous materials exemptions and approvals 
functions.

                             Pipeline Safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline 
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $36,879,000, 
of which $5,479,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 2002; of which 
$30,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of which 
$17,394,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2002; and of 
which $1,400,000 shall be derived from amounts previously collected 
under 49 U.S.C. 60301: Provided, That amounts previously collected under 
49 U.S.C. 60301 shall be available for damage prevention grants to 
States and public education activities.

                      Emergency Preparedness Grants

                      (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall be made available for 
obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, or 
his designee.

                       OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$44,840,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3) to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the Government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used to investigate pursuant to section 41712 of 
title 49, United States Code, relating to unfair or deceptive practices 
and unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air carriers 
and ticket agents: Provided further, That it is the sense of the Senate, 
that for purposes of the preceding proviso, the terms ``unfair or 
deceptive practices'' and ``unfair methods of competition'' include the 
failure to disclose to a passenger or a ticket agent whether the flight 
on which the passenger is ticketed or has requested to purchase a ticket 
is overbooked, unless the Secretary certifies such disclosure by a 
carrier is technologically infeasible: Provided further, That

[[Page 113 STAT. 1014]]

the funds made available under this heading shall be used: (1) to 
investigate pursuant to section 41712 of title 49, United States Code, 
relating to unfair or deceptive practices and unfair methods of 
competition by air carriers and foreign air carriers; (2) for monitoring 
by the Inspector General of the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
carriers with respect to paragraph (1) of this proviso; and (3) for the 
submission to the appropriate committees of Congress by the Inspector 
General, not later than July 15, 2000, of a report on the extent to 
which actual or potential barriers exist to consumer access to 
comparative price and service information from independent sources on 
the purchase of passenger air transportation: Provided further, That it 
is the sense of the Senate, that for purposes of the preceding proviso, 
the terms ``unfair or deceptive practices'' and ``unfair methods of 
competition'' mean the offering for sale to the public for any route, 
class, and time of service through any technology or means of 
communication a fare that is different than that offered through other 
technology or means of communication: Provided further, That it is the 
sense of the Senate that funds made available under this heading shall 
be used for the submission to the appropriate committees of Congress by 
the Inspector General a report on the extent to which air carriers and 
foreign air carriers deny travel to airline consumers with nonrefundable 
tickets from one carrier to another.

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $17,000,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,600,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2000, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $15,400,000.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $4,633,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1015]]

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902) 
$57,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                                TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2000 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. <<NOTE: 49 USC 106 note.>>  Funds appropriated under this 
Act for expenditures by the Federal Aviation Administration shall be 
available: (1) except as otherwise authorized by title VIII of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), 
for expenses of primary and secondary schooling for dependents of 
Federal Aviation Administration personnel stationed outside the 
continental United States at costs for any given area not in excess of 
those of the Department of Defense for the same area, when it is 
determined by the Secretary that the schools, if any, available in the 
locality are unable to provide adequately for the education of such 
dependents; and (2) for transportation of said dependents between 
schools serving the area that they attend and their places of residence 
when the Secretary, under such regulations as may be prescribed, 
determines that such schools are not accessible by public means of 
transportation on a regular basis.

    Sec. 304. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 100 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor

[[Page 113 STAT. 1016]]

may any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.
    Sec. 308. The Secretary of Transportation may enter into grants, 
cooperative agreements, and other transactions with any person, agency, 
or instrumentality of the United States, any unit of State or local 
government, any educational institution, and any other entity in 
execution of the Technology Reinvestment Project authorized under the 
Defense Conversion, Reinvestment and Transition Assistance Act of 1992 
and related legislation: Provided, That the authority provided in this 
section may be exercised without regard to section 3324 of title 31, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
matter of public record and available for public inspection, except 
where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>>  (a) For fiscal year 2000, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        for the highway use tax evasion program, and amounts provided 
        under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, and for the 
        Bureau of Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
        (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal year the 
        funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
                construction programs (other than sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for sections set forth in paragraphs (1) 
                through (7) of subsection (b) and sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for section 105 of title 23, United States 
                Code, equal to the amount referred to in subsection 
                (b)(8)) for such fiscal year less the aggregate of the 
                amounts not distributed under paragraph (1) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 117 of title 23, United States 
        Code (relating to high priority projects program), section 201 
        of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, the Woodrow 
        Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, and $2,000,000,000 
        for such fiscal year under section 105 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to minimum guarantee) so that the amount 
        of obligation authority available for each of such sections is 
        equal to the amount determined by multiplying

[[Page 113 STAT. 1017]]

        the ratio determined under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized 
        to be appropriated for such section (except in the case of 
        section 105, $2,000,000,000) for such fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by the 
        Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined under 
        paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
        program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for the 
        minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.

    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations: (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 147 
of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under section 
9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 131(b) and 
131( j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; (5) under 
sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and Uniform 
Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under sections 1103 through 1108 
of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991; (7) 
under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in effect on the 
day before the date of the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 23, United 
States Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for such 
fiscal year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 1015 of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1943-1945).

[[Page 113 STAT. 1018]]

    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapter 5 of title 
23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made available 
for such programs under such limitation shall remain available for a 
period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Redistribution of Certain Authorized 
Funds.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the distribution of 
obligation limitation under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
distribute to the States any funds: (1) that are authorized to be 
appropriated for such fiscal year for Federal-aid highways programs 
(other than the program under section 160 of title 23, United States 
Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of chapter 311 of title 49, 
United States Code, and highway-related programs under chapter 4 of 
title 23, United States Code; and (2) that the Secretary determines will 
not be allocated to the States, and will not be available for 
obligation, in such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation 
limitation for such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall 
be made in the same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority 
under subsection (a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for 
any purposes described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States 
Code.

    (f ) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) of this section for a section set forth in 
subsection (a)(4) shall remain available until used and shall be in 
addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs for future 
fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338 note.>>  The limitations on 
obligations for the programs of the Federal Transit Administration shall 
not apply to any authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made 
available for obligation, or to any other authority previously made 
available for obligation.

    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 313. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel traffic 
safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara 
Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation 
Scheme.
    Sec. 314. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44502 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, airports may transfer, without consideration, to the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) instrument landing systems (along 
with associated approach lighting equipment and runway visual range 
equipment) which conform to FAA design and performance specifications, 
the purchase of which was assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, 
airport development aid program or airport improvement program grant. 
The Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such equipment, which 
shall thereafter be operated and maintained by FAA in accordance with 
agency criteria.

    Sec. 315. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to award 
a multiyear contract for production end items that: (1) includes 
economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in excess 
of $10,000,000 in any 1 year of the contract; (2) includes a 
cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of 
obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's 
liability; or (3) includes a requirement that permits performance under 
the contract during the second and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1019]]

subsequent years of the contract without conditioning such performance 
upon the appropriation of funds: Provided, That this limitation does not 
apply to a contract in which the Federal Government incurs no financial 
liability from not buying additional systems, subsystems, or components 
beyond the basic contract requirements.
    Sec. 316. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except for 
fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this Act 
under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' for 
projects specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying 
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2002, and other recoveries, 
shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 5309.
    Sec. 317. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 1999, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 318. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate in 
excess of 320 technical staff-years under the federally funded research 
and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 319. Funds provided in this Act for the Transportation 
Administrative Service Center (TASC) shall be reduced by $15,000,000, 
which limits fiscal year 2000 TASC obligational authority for elements 
of the Department of Transportation funded in this Act to no more than 
$133,673,000: Provided, That such reductions from the budget request 
shall be allocated by the Department of Transportation to each 
appropriations account in proportion to the amount included in each 
account for the Transportation Administrative Service Center.
    Sec. 320. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited respectively 
to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' 
account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Transit Planning and 
Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad Administration's 
``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State rail safety 
inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 321. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
prepare, propose, or promulgate any regulations pursuant to title V of 
the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (49 U.S.C. 32901 et 
seq.) prescribing corporate average fuel economy standards for 
automobiles, as defined in such title, in any model year that differs 
from standards promulgated for such automobiles prior to the enactment 
of this section.
    Sec. 322. Temporary Air Service Interruptions. (a) Availability of 
Funds.--Funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act to 
carry out section 47114(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code, may be 
available for apportionment to an airport sponsor described in 
subsection (b) in fiscal year 2000 in an amount equal to the amount 
apportioned to that sponsor in fiscal year 1999.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1020]]

    (b) Covered Airport Sponsors.--An airport sponsor referred to in 
subsection (a) is an airport sponsor with respect to whose primary 
airport the Secretary of Transportation found that--
            (1) passenger boardings at the airport fell below 10,000 in 
        the calendar year used to calculate the apportionment;
            (2) the airport had at least 10,000 passenger boardings in 
        the calendar year prior to the calendar year used to calculate 
        apportionments to airport sponsors in a fiscal year; and
            (3) the cause of the shortfall in passenger boardings was a 
        temporary but significant interruption in service by an air 
        carrier to that airport due to an employment action, natural 
        disaster, or other event unrelated to the demand for air 
        transportation at the affected airport.

    Sec. 323. Section 3021 of Public Law 105-178 <<NOTE: 49 USC 5307 
note.>>  is amended in subsection (a)--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``single-State''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``Any'' and all that 
        follows through ``United States Code'' and inserting ``The funds 
        made available to the State of Oklahoma and the State of Vermont 
        to carry out sections 5307 and 5311 of title 49, United States 
        Code''.

    Sec. 324. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited to 
the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall be subject to 
the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended 
for employee training which: (a) does not meet identified needs for 
knowledge, skills and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
official duties; (b) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
emotional response or psychological stress in some participants; (c) 
does not require prior employee notification of the content and methods 
to be used in the training and written end of course evaluations; (d) 
contains any methods or content associated with religious or quasi-
religious belief systems or ``new age'' belief systems as defined in 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
September 2, 1988; (e) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or (f 
) includes content related to human immunodeficiency virus/acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than that necessary to make 
employees more aware of the medical ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the 
workplace rights of HIV-positive employees.
    Sec. 326. None of the funds in this Act shall, in the absence of 
express authorization by Congress, be used directly or indirectly to pay 
for any personal service, advertisement, telegraph, telephone, letter, 
printed or written material, radio, television, video presentation, 
electronic communications, or other device, intended or designed to 
influence in any manner a Member of Congress or of a State legislature 
to favor or oppose by vote or otherwise, any legislation or 
appropriation by Congress or a State legislature after the introduction 
of any bill or resolution in Congress proposing such legislation or 
appropriation, or after the introduction of any bill or resolution in a 
State legislature proposing such legislation or appropriation: Provided, 
That this shall not prevent officers

[[Page 113 STAT. 1021]]

or employees of the Department of Transportation or related agencies 
funded in this Act from communicating to Members of Congress or to 
Congress, on the request of any Member, or to members of State 
legislature, or to a State legislature, through the proper official 
channels, requests for legislation or appropriations which they deem 
necessary for the efficient conduct of business.
    Sec. 327. (a) In General.--None of the funds made available in this 
Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
expending the funds the entity will comply with the Buy American Act (41 
U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 328. Not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds provided in this Act 
for the Department of Transportation shall be available for the 
necessary expenses of advisory committees: Provided, That this 
limitation shall not apply to advisory committees established for the 
purpose of conducting negotiated rulemaking in accordance with the 
Negotiated Rulemaking Act, 5 U.S.C. 561-570a, or the Coast Guard's 
advisory council on roles and missions.
    Sec. 329. <<NOTE: 49 USC 322 note.>>  Hereafter, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, receipts, in amounts determined by the 
Secretary, collected from users of fitness centers operated by or for 
the Department of Transportation shall be available to support the 
operation and maintenance of those facilities.

    Sec. 330. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
implement or enforce regulations that would result in the withdrawal of 
a slot from an air carrier at O'Hare International Airport under section 
93.223 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations in excess of the 
total slots withdrawn from that air carrier as of October 31, 1993 if 
such additional slot is to be allocated to an air carrier or foreign air 
carrier under section 93.217 of title 14 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 331. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available under this Act, and any prior year unobligated

[[Page 113 STAT. 1022]]

funds, for the Charleston, South Carolina Monobeam Corridor Project 
shall be transferred to and administered under the Transit Planning and 
Research account, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
deems appropriate.
    Sec. 332. <<NOTE: 49 USC 41731 note.>>  Hereafter, notwithstanding 
49 U.S.C. 41742, no essential air service subsidies shall be provided to 
communities in the 48 contiguous States that are located fewer than 70 
highway miles from the nearest large or medium hub airport, or that 
require a rate of subsidy per passenger in excess of $200 unless such 
point is greater than 210 miles from the nearest large or medium hub 
airport.

    Sec. 333. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and other 
funds received by the Department from travel management centers, charge 
card programs, the subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous 
sources are to be credited to appropriations of the Department and 
allocated to elements of the Department using fair and equitable 
criteria and such funds shall be available until December 31, 2000.
    Sec. 334. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of an 
amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 335. For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council 
authorized under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $750,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2001: Provided, That the duties of the 
Amtrak Reform Council described in section 203(g)(1) of Public Law 105-
134 shall include the identification of Amtrak routes which are 
candidates for closure or realignment, based on performance rankings 
developed by Amtrak which incorporate information on each route's fully 
allocated costs and ridership on core intercity passenger service, and 
which assume, for purposes of closure or realignment candidate 
identification, that Federal subsidies for Amtrak will decline over the 
4-year period from fiscal year 1999 to fiscal year 2002: Provided 
further, That these closure or realignment recommendations shall be 
included in the Amtrak Reform Council's annual report to the Congress 
required by section 203(h) of Public Law 105-134.
    Sec. 336. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to transfer 
funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the Secretary to any 
other office of the Office of the Secretary: Provided, That no 
appropriation shall be increased or decreased by more than 12 percent by 
all such transfers: Provided further, That any such transfer shall be 
submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 337. <<NOTE: 49 USC 40113 note.>>  None of the funds in this 
Act shall be available for activities under the Aircraft Purchase Loan 
Guarantee Program during fiscal year 2000.

    Sec. 338. None of the funds appropriated or limited in this Act may 
be used to carry out the functions and operations of the Office of Motor 
Carriers within the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, That funds 
available to the Federal Highway Administration shall be transferred 
with the functions and operations of the Office of Motor Carriers should 
any of the functions and operations of that office be delegated by the 
Secretary outside of the Federal Highway Administration: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 104(c)(2) of title 49, United 
States Code,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1023]]

the Federal Highway Administrator shall not carry out the duties and 
functions vested in the Secretary under 49 U.S.C. 521(b)(5).
    Sec. 339. Section 3027 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st 
Century (49 U.S.C. 5307 note; 112 Stat. 336) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(e) Government Share for Operating Assistance to Certain Smaller 
Urbanized Areas.--Notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5307(e), a grant of the 
Government for operating expenses of a project under 49 U.S.C. 5307(b) 
in fiscal years 1999 and 2000 to any recipient that is providing transit 
services in an urbanized area with a population between 128,000 and 
128,200, as determined in the 1990 census, and that had adopted a 5-year 
transit plan before September 1, 1998, may not be more than 80 percent 
of the net project cost.''.
    Sec. 340. Funds provided in Public Law 104-205 for the Griffin light 
rail project shall be available for alternative analysis and 
environmental impact studies for other transit alternatives in the 
Griffin corridor from Hartford to Bradley International Airport.
    Sec. 341. Section 3030(c)(1)(A)(v) of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 373.>>  is 
amended by striking ``Light Rail''.

    Sec. 342. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal 
share of projects funded under section 3038(g)(1)(B) of Public Law 105-
178 shall not exceed 90 percent of the project cost.
    Sec. 343. Of the funds made available to the Coast Guard in this Act 
under ``Acquisition, construction, and improvements'', $10,000,000 is 
only for necessary expenses to support a portion of the acquisition 
costs, currently estimated at $128,000,000, of a multi-mission vessel to 
replace the Mackinaw icebreaker in the Great Lakes, to remain available 
until September 30, 2005.
    Sec. 344. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to extend a single hull tank vessel's double hull 
compliance date under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 due to conversion of 
the vessel's single hull design by adding a double bottom or double side 
after August 18, 1990, unless specifically authorized by 46 U.S.C. 
3703a(e).
    Sec. 345. None of the funds in this Act may be used for the planning 
or development of the California State Route 710 Freeway extension 
project through South Pasadena, California (as approved in the Record of 
Decision on State Route 710 Freeway, issued by the United States 
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, on April 
13, 1998).
    Sec. 346. <<NOTE: Peanuts. 49 USC 41705 note.>>  Hereafter, none of 
the funds made available under this Act or any other Act, may be used to 
implement, carry out, or enforce any regulation issued under section 
41705 of title 49, United States Code, including any regulation 
contained in part 382 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
other provision of law (including any Act of Congress, regulation, or 
Executive order or any official guidance or correspondence thereto), 
that requires or encourages an air carrier (as that term is defined in 
section 40102 of title 49, United States Code) to, on intrastate or 
interstate air transportation (as those terms are defined in section 
40102 of title 49, United States Code)--
            (1) provide a peanut-free buffer zone or any other related 
        peanut-restricted area; or
            (2) restrict the distribution of peanuts,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1024]]

until 90 days after submission to the Congress and the Secretary of a 
peer-reviewed scientific study that determines that there are severe 
reactions by passengers to peanuts as a result of contact with very 
small airborne peanut particles of the kind that passengers might 
encounter in an aircraft.
    Sec. 347. Section 5309(g)(1)(B) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate'' the following: ``and the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations''.
    Sec. 348. Section 1212(g) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178), <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 193.>>  as amended, 
is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and New 
        Jersey'' after ``Minnesota''; and
            (2) by inserting ``or the State of New Jersey'' after 
        ``Minnesota''.

    Sec. 349. <<NOTE: University of New Hampshire.>>  (a) Requirement To 
Convey.--The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall convey, without 
consideration, to the University of New Hampshire (in this section 
referred to as the ``University'') all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of real property (including any 
improvements thereon) located in New Castle, New Hampshire, consisting 
of approximately five acres and including a pier.

    (b) Identification of Property.--The Commandant shall determine, 
identify, and describe the property to be conveyed under this section.
    (c) Easements, Rights-of-Way, and Rights.--(1) The Commandant shall, 
in connection with the conveyance required by subsection (a), grant to 
the University such easements and rights-of-way as the Commandant 
considers necessary to permit access to the property conveyed under that 
subsection.
    (2) The Commandant shall, in connection with such conveyance, 
reserve in favor of the United States such easements and rights as the 
Commandant considers necessary to protect the interests of the United 
States, including easements or rights regarding access to property and 
utilities.
    (d) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance required by subsection 
(a) shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1) That the University not convey, assign, exchange, or 
        encumber the property conveyed, or any part thereof, unless such 
        conveyance, assignment, exchange, or encumbrance--
                    (A) is made without consideration; or
                    (B) is otherwise approved by the Commandant.
            (2) That the University not interfere or allow interference 
        in any manner with the maintenance or operation of Coast Guard 
        Station Portsmouth Harbor, New Hampshire, without the express 
        written permission of the Commandant.
            (3) That the University use the property for educational, 
        research, or other public purposes.

    (e) Maintenance of Property.--The University, or any subsequent 
owner of the property conveyed under subsection (a) pursuant to a 
conveyance, assignment, or exchange referred to in subsection (d)(1), 
shall maintain the property in a proper, substantial, and workmanlike 
manner, and in accordance with any conditions established by the 
Commandant, pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 
(16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), and other applicable laws.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1025]]

    (f ) Reversionary Interest.--All right, title, and interest in and 
to the property conveyed under this section (including any improvements 
thereon) shall revert to the United States, and the United States shall 
have the right of immediate entry thereon, if--
            (1) the property, or any part thereof, ceases to be used for 
        educational, research, or other public purposes by the 
        University;
            (2) the University conveys, assigns, exchanges, or encumbers 
        the property conveyed, or part thereof, for consideration or 
        without the approval of the Commandant;
            (3) the Commandant notifies the owner of the property that 
        the property is needed for national security purposes and a 
        period of 30 days elapses after such notice; or
            (4) any other term or condition established by the 
        Commandant under this section with respect to the property is 
        violated.

    Sec. 350. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act shall 
disseminate driver's license personal information as defined in 18 
U.S.C. 2725(3) except as provided in subsection (b) of this section or 
motor vehicle records as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1) for any use not 
permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) No recipient of funds made available in this Act shall 
disseminate a person's driver's license photograph, social security 
number, and medical or disability information from a motor vehicle 
record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1) without the express consent of 
the person to whom such information pertains, except for uses permitted 
under 18 U.S.C. 2721(1), 2721(4), 2721(6), and 2721(9): Provided, That 
subsection (b) shall not in any way affect the use of organ donation 
information on an individual's driver's license or affect the 
administration of organ donation initiatives in the States.
    (c) 18 U.S.C. 2721(b)(11) is amended by striking all after 
``records'' and inserting the following: ``if the State has obtained the 
express consent of the person to whom such personal information 
pertains.''.
    (d) 18 U.S.C. 2721(b)(12) is amended by striking all after 
``solicitations'' and inserting the following: ``if the State has 
obtained the express consent of the person to whom such personal 
information pertains.''.
    (e) No State may condition or burden in any way the issuance of a 
motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1) upon the receipt of 
consent described in paragraphs (b) and (c).
    (f ) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall 
not withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    (g) Effective Dates. <<NOTE: State listings.>> --
            (1) Subsections (a) and (e) shall be effective upon the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, excluding the States of Wisconsin, 
        South Carolina, and Oklahoma that shall be in compliance with 
        this subsection within 90 days after the United States Supreme 
        Court has issued a final decision on Reno vs. Condon;
            (2) <<NOTE: 18 USC 2721 note.>>  Subsections (b), (c), and 
        (d) shall be effective on June 1, 2000, excluding the States of 
        Arkansas, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, and Texas that 
        shall be in compliance with subsections (b), (c), and (d) within 
        90 days of the next convening of the State legislature and 
        excluding the States

[[Page 113 STAT. 1026]]

        of Wisconsin, South Carolina, and Oklahoma that shall be in 
        compliance within 90 days following the day of issuance of a 
        final decision on Reno vs. Condon by the United States Supreme 
        Court if the State legislature is in session, or within 90 days 
        of the next convening of the State legislature following the 
        issuance of such final decision if the State legislature is not 
        in session.

    Sec. 351. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, within the 
funds provided in this Act for the Federal Highway Administration and 
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, $10,000,000 may be 
made available for completion of the National Advanced Driving Simulator 
(NADS): Provided, That such funds shall be subject to reprogramming 
guidelines.
    Sec. 352. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
1107(b) of Public Law 102-240 <<NOTE: 105 Stat. 2048.>>  is amended by 
striking ``Construction of a replacement bridge at Watervale Bridge #63, 
Harford County, MD'' and inserting the following: ``For improvements to 
Bottom Road Bridge, Vinegar Hill Road Bridge and Southampton Road 
Bridge, Harford County, MD''.

    Sec. 353. (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The survival of American culture is dependent upon the 
        survival of the sacred institution of marriage.
            (2) The decennial census is required by section 2 of article 
        1 of the Constitution of the United States, and has been 
        conducted in every decade since 1790.
            (3) The decennial census has included marital status among 
        the information sought from every American household since 1880.
            (4) The 2000 decennial census will mark the first decennial 
        census since 1880 in which marital status will not be a question 
        included on the census questionnaire distributed to the majority 
        of American households.
            (5) The United States Census Bureau has removed marital 
        status from the short form census questionnaire to be 
        distributed to the majority of American households in the 2000 
        decennial census and placed that category of information on the 
        long form census questionnaire to be distributed only to a 
        sample of the population in that decennial census.
            (6) Every year more than $100,000,000,000 in Federal funds 
        are allocated based on the data collected by the Census Bureau.
            (7) Recorded data on marital status provides a basic 
        foundation for the development of Federal policy.
            (8) Census data showing an exact account of the numbers of 
        persons who are married, single, or divorced provides critical 
        information which serves as an indicator on the prevalence of 
        marriage in society.

    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
United States Census Bureau--
            (1) has wrongfully decided not to include marital status on 
        the census questionnaire to be distributed to the majority of 
        Americans for the 2000 decennial census; and
            (2) should include marital status on the short form census 
        questionnaire to be distributed to the majority of American 
        households for the 2000 decennial census.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1027]]

    Sec. 354. It is the sense of the Senate that the Secretary should 
expeditiously amend title 14, chapter II, part 250, Code of Federal 
Regulations, so as to double the applicable penalties for involuntary 
denied boardings and allow those passengers that are involuntarily 
denied boarding the option of obtaining a prompt cash refund for the 
full value of their airline ticket.
    Sec. 355. Section 656(b) of division C of the Omnibus Consolidated 
Appropriations Act of 1997 <<NOTE: 5 USC 301 note.>>  is repealed.

    Sec. 356. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
made available pursuant to Public Law 105-277 for the Pittsburgh North 
Shore central business district transit options MIS project may be used 
to fund any aspect of preliminary engineering, costs associated with an 
environmental impact statement, or a major investment study for that 
project.
    Sec. 357. <<NOTE: Virginia.>>  (a) Notwithstanding the January 4, 
1977, decision of the Secretary of Transportation that approved 
construction of Interstate Highway 66 between the Capital Beltway and 
Rosslyn, Virginia, the Commonwealth of Virginia, in accordance with 
existing Federal and State law, shall hereafter have authority for 
operation, maintenance, and construction of Interstate Route 66 between 
Rosslyn and the Capital Beltway, except as noted in paragraph (b).

    (b) The conditions in the Secretary's January 4, 1997 decision, that 
exclude heavy duty trucks and permit use by vehicles bound to or from 
Washington Dulles International Airport in the peak direction during 
peak hours, shall remain in effect.
    Sec. 358. Noise Barriers, Georgia. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Transportation shall approve the use 
of funds apportioned under paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 104(b) of 
title 23, United States Code, for construction of Type II noise barriers 
at the locations identified in section 1215(h) and items 540 and 967 of 
the table contained in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (112 Stat. 211, 292), and at the following locations: 
On the east side of I-285 extending from Northlake Parkway to Chamblee 
Tucker Road in Dekalb County, Georgia; and on the east side of I-185 
between Macon Road and Airport Thruway.
    Sec. 359. Item 44 of the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 258) is 
amended by striking ``Saratoga'' and inserting ``North Creek''.
    Sec. 360. Funds made available for Alaska or Hawaii ferry boats or 
ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be 
used to construct new vessels and facilities or to improve existing 
vessels and facilities, including both the passenger and vehicle-related 
elements of such vessels and facilities, and for repair facilities.
    Sec. 361. High Priority Projects. (a) Project Authorizations.--The 
table contained in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (112 Stat. 257-323) is amended--
            (1) in item 174 by striking ``5.375'' and inserting 
        ``5.25'';
            (2) in item 478 by striking ``2.375'' and inserting 
        ``2.25'';
            (3) in item 948 by striking ``5.375'' and inserting 
        ``5.25'';
            (4) in item 1008 by striking ``3.875'' and inserting 
        ``3.75'';
            (5) in item 1210 by striking ``6.875'' and inserting 
        ``6.75'';
            (6) by striking item 1289 and inserting the following:

[[Page 113 STAT. 1028]]



 
 
 
``1289. Arkansas                       Improve Highway 167      1.0'';
                                        from Fordyce,
                                        Arkansas, to Saline
                                        County line........
 

            (7) in item 1319 by striking ``0.875'' and inserting 
        ``0.75'';
            (8) in item 1420--
                    (A) by inserting ``and development'' after ``Conduct 
                planning''; and
                    (B) by striking ``0.875'' and inserting ``0.75''; 
                and
            (9) by adding at the end the following new item:

 
 
 
``1851. Arkansas                       Construction of and     5.25''.
                                        improvements to
                                        highway projects in
                                        the corridor
                                        designated by
                                        section
                                        1105(c)(18)(C)(ii)
                                        of the Intermodal
                                        Surface
                                        Transportation
                                        Efficiency Act of
                                        1991...............
 

    (b) High Priority Corridors.--Section 1105(c)(18)(C)(ii) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (112 Stat. 190) 
is amended by striking ``in the vicinity of'' and inserting ``east of 
Wilmar, Arkansas, and west of''.
    Sec. 362. Section 3030(d)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 373.>>  is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Bethlehem, Pennsylvania intermodal 
                facility.''.

    Sec. 363. Section 3030(b) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (112 Stat. 373-375) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(71) Dane County Corridor--East-West Madison Metropolitan Area.''.
    Sec. 364. Notwithstanding the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5309(e)(6), 
funds appropriated under this Act for the Douglas Branch project may be 
used for any purpose except construction: Provided, That in evaluating 
the Douglas Branch project under 5309(e), the Federal Transit 
Administration shall use a ``no-build'' alternative that assumes the 
current Douglas Branch has been closed due to poor condition, and a 
``TSM'' alternative which assumes the Douglas Branch has been closed due 
to poor condition and enhanced bus service is provided.
    Sec. 365. (a) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency (in this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') shall make 
a grant for the purpose of conducting a study for the following 
purposes:
            (1) To develop and evaluate methods for calculating 
        reductions in emissions of precursors of ground level ozone that 
        are achieved within a geographic area as a result of reduced 
        vehicle-miles-traveled in the geographic area.
            (2) To develop a design for the following proposal for a 
        pilot program:
                    (A) For the purpose of reducing such emissions, 
                employers electing to participate in the pilot program 
                would authorize and encourage telecommuting by their 
                employees. Pursuant to methods developed and evaluated 
                under paragraph (1), credits would be issued to the 
                participating employers reflecting the amount of 
                reductions in such emissions achieved through reduced 
                vehicle-miles-traveled by their telecommuting employees.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1029]]

                    (B) For purposes of compliance with the Clean Air 
                Act, entities that are regulated under such Act with 
                respect to such emissions would obtain the credits 
                through a commercial trading and exchange forum 
                (established for such purpose) and through direct trades 
                and exchanges with participating employers and other 
                persons who hold the credits.
            (3) To determine whether, if the proposed pilot program were 
        to be carried out, the program--
                    (A) could provide significant incentives for 
                increasing the use of telecommuting, thereby reducing 
                vehicle-miles-traveled and improving air quality; and
                    (B) could have positive effects on national, State, 
                and local transportation and infrastructure policies, 
                and on energy conservation and consumption.

    (b) The Administrator shall ensure that the design developed under 
subsection (a)(2) includes recommendations for carrying out the proposed 
pilot program described in such subsection in each of the following 
geographic areas (which recommendations for an area shall be developed 
in consultation with State and local governments and business leaders 
and organizations in the designated areas): (1) The greater metropolitan 
region of the District of Columbia (including areas in the State of 
Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia). (2) The greater metropolitan 
region of Los Angeles, in the State of California. (3) The greater 
metropolitan region of Philadelphia, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
(including areas in the State of New Jersey). (4) Two additional areas 
to be selected by the grantee under subsection (a), after consultation 
with the Administrator (or the designee of the Administrator).
    (c) The grant under subsection (a) shall be made to the National 
Environmental Policy Institute (a nonprofit private entity incorporated 
under the laws of and located in the District of Columbia). The grant 
may not be made in an amount exceeding $500,000.
    (d) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  The Administrator shall make the grant 
under subsection (a) not later than 45 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  The Administrator shall 
require that, not later than 180 days after receiving the first payment 
under the grant, the grantee under subsection (a) complete the study 
under such subsection and submit to the Administrator a report 
describing the methods developed and evaluated under paragraph (1) of 
such subsection, and containing the design required in paragraph (2) of 
such subsection and the determinations required in paragraph (3) of such 
subsection.

    (e) The Administrator shall carry out this section (including 
subsection (b)(3)) in collaboration with the Secretary of Transportation 
and the Secretary of Energy.
    (f ) To carry out this section, $500,000 is hereby appropriated to 
the Department of Transportation, ``Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Policy'', to be transferred to and administered by the Environmental 
Protection Agency, to be available until expended.
    Sec. 366. Notwithstanding the Federal Airport Act (as in effect on 
April 3, 1956) or sections 47125 and 47153 of title 49, United States 
Code, and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Transportation may 
waive any term contained in the deed of conveyance dated April 3, 1956, 
by which the United States conveyed lands to the City of Safford, 
Arizona, for use by the city for airport

[[Page 113 STAT. 1030]]

purposes: Provided, That no waiver may be made under subsection (a) if 
the waiver would result in the closure of an airport.
    Sec. 367. <<NOTE: Notification.>>  None of the funds in this Act may 
be used to make a grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than three 
full business days before any discretionary grant award, letter of 
intent, or full funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is 
announced by the department or its modal administrations from: (1) any 
discretionary grant program of the Federal Highway Administration other 
than the emergency relief program; (2) the airport improvement program 
of the Federal Aviation Administration; or (3) any program of the 
Federal Transit Administration other than the formula grants and fixed 
guideway modernization programs: Provided, That no notification shall 
involve funds that are not available for obligation.

    Sec. 368. <<NOTE: California.>>  Funds provided in the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts for fiscal years 
1998 and 1999 for an intermodal facility in Eureka, California, shall be 
available for the expansion and rehabilitation of a bus maintenance 
facility in Humboldt County, California.

    Sec. 369. <<NOTE: Minnesota.>>  Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds previously expended by the City of Moorhead and Moorhead 
Township on studies related to the 34th Street Corridor Project in 
Moorhead, Minnesota, shall be considered as the non-Federal match for 
obligation of funds available under section 1602, item 1404 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended, associated 
with a study of alternatives to rail relocation.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000''.

    Approved October 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2084 (S. 1143):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-180 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-355 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-55 accompanying S. 1143 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            June 23, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 14-16, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 1, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 4, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Oct. 9, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>