[106th Congress Public Law 149]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ149.106]

    QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR 
                       REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1999
Public Law 106-149
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
          Corridor Act of 1994 to expand the boundaries of the 
            Corridor. <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 1619]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Quinebaug and Shetucket 
Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 1999. 16 
USC 461 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Quinebaug and 
Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act 
of 1999''.
    (b) Reference.--Whenever in this Act a section or other provision is 
amended or repealed, such amendment or repeal shall be considered to be 
made to that section or other provision of the Quinebaug and Shetucket 
Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-
449; 16 U.S.C. 461 note).

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Section 102 of the Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts'' after ``State of Connecticut'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs 
        (3) through (9) as paragraphs (2) through (8), respectively; and
            (3) in paragraph (3) (as so redesignated), by inserting 
        ``New Haven,'' after ``Hartford,''.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY NATIONAL 
            HERITAGE CORRIDOR; PURPOSE.

    (a) Establishment.--Section 103(a) of the Act is amended by 
inserting ``and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts'' after ``State of 
Connecticut''.
    (b) Purpose.--Section 103(b) of the Act is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to provide 
assistance to the State of Connecticut and the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, their units of local and regional government and citizens 
in the development and implementation of integrated natural, cultural, 
historic, scenic, recreational, land, and other resource management 
programs in order to retain, enhance, and interpret the significant 
features of the lands, water, structures, and history of the Quinebaug 
and Shetucket Rivers Valley.''.

SEC. 4. BOUNDARIES AND ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Boundaries.--Section 104(a) of the Act is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``Union,'' after ``Thompson,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``Woodstock'' the following: ``in the 
        State of Connecticut, and the towns of Brimfield, Charlton, 
        Dudley, E. Brookfield, Holland, Oxford, Southbridge, Sturbridge, 
        and Webster in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which are 
        contiguous areas in the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley, 
        related by shared natural, cultural, historic, and scenic 
        resources''.

    (b) Administration.--Section 104 of the Act is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(b) Administration.--
            ``(1) In general.--(A) The Corridor shall be managed by the 
        management entity in accordance with the management plan, in 
        consultation with the Governor and pursuant to a compact with 
        the Secretary.
            ``(B) The management entity shall amend its by-laws to add 
        the Governor of Connecticut (or the Governor's designee) and the 
        Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (or the Governor's 
        designee) as a voting members of its Board of Directors.
            ``(C) The management entity shall provide the Governor with 
        an annual report of its activities, programs, and projects. An 
        annual report prepared for any other purpose shall satisfy the 
        requirements of this paragraph.
            ``(2) Compact.--To carry out the purposes of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall enter into a compact with the management entity. 
        The compact shall include information relating to the objectives 
        and management of the Corridor, including, but not limited to, 
        each of the following:
                    ``(A) A delineation of the boundaries of the 
                Corridor.
                    ``(B) A discussion of goals and objectives of the 
                Corridor, including an explanation of the proposed 
                approaches to accomplishing the goals set forth in the 
                management plan.
                    ``(C) A description of the role of the State of 
                Connecticut and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
            ``(3) Authorities of management entity.--For the purpose of 
        achieving the goals set forth in the management plan, the 
        management entity may use Federal funds provided under this 
        Act--
                    ``(A) to make grants to the State of Connecticut and 
                the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their political 
                subdivisions, nonprofit organizations, and other 
                persons;
                    ``(B) to enter into cooperative agreements with or 
                provide technical assistance to the State of Connecticut 
                and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their political 
                subdivisions, nonprofit organizations, and other 
                persons;
                    ``(C) to hire and compensate staff; and
                    ``(D) to contract for goods and services.
            ``(4) Prohibition on acquisition of real property.--The 
        management entity may not use Federal funds received under this 
        Act to acquire real property or any interest in real 
        property.''.

SEC. 5. STATES CORRIDOR PLAN.

    Section 105 of the Act is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (a);
            (3) in subsection (a) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking the first sentence and all that 
                follows through ``Governor,'' and inserting the 
                following: ``The management entity shall implement the 
                management plan. Upon request of the management 
                entity,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``identified 
                pursuant to the inventory required by section 5(a)(1)''; 
                and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Grants and Technical Assistance.--For the purposes of 
implementing the management plan, the management entity may make grants 
or provide technical assistance to the State of Connecticut and the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, their political subdivisions, nonprofit 
organizations, and other persons to further the goals set forth in the 
management plan.''.

SEC. 6. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    Section 106 of the Act is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Governor'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``management entity'';
                    (B) by striking ``preparation and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following: ``Such 
                assistance shall include providing funds authorized 
                under section 109 and technical assistance necessary to 
                carry out this Act.''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

    ``(b) Termination of Authority.--The Secretary may not make any 
grants or provide any assistance under this Act after September 30, 
2009.''.

SEC. 7. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    Section 107 of the Act is amended by striking ``Governor'' and 
inserting ``management entity''.

SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 108 of the Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period the 
        following: ``and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts''.
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the period the 
        following: ``and the Governor of the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``each of'' and all that 
        follows and inserting the following: ``the Northeastern 
        Connecticut Council of Governments, the Windham Regional Council 
        of Governments, and the Southeastern Connecticut Council of 
        Governments in Connecticut, (or their successors), and the 
        Pioneer Valley Regional Planning Commission and the Southern 
        Worcester County Regional Planning Commission (or their 
        successors) in Massachusetts.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) The term `management plan' means the document approved 
        by the Governor of the State of Connecticut on February 16, 
        1999, and adopted by the management entity, entitled `Vision to 
        Reality: A Management Plan', the management plan for the 
        Corridor, as it may be amended or replaced from time-to-time.
            ``(7) The term `management entity' means Quinebaug-Shetucket 
        Heritage Corridor, Inc., a not-for-profit corporation (or its 
        successor) incorporated in the State of Connecticut.''.

SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 109 of the Act is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Corridor under this 
title after the date of the enactment of the Quinebaug and Shetucket 
Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 1999.
    ``(b)  Fifty Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this 
title may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of any assistance or 
grant provided or authorized under this title.''.

SEC. 10. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Long Title.--The long title of the Act is amended to read as 
follows: ``An Act to establish the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley 
National Heritage Corridor in the State of Connecticut and the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and for other purposes.''.
    (b) Heading.--The heading for section 110 of the Act is amended by 
striking ``service'' and inserting ``system''.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1619:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-306 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-213 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Sept. 13, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>