[106th Congress Public Law 291]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ291.106]


[[Page 921]]

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2001

[[Page 114 STAT. 922]]

Public Law 106-291
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 11, 2000 -  [H.R. 4578]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Department of 
the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001.>>  That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Department of the Interior and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For expenses necessary for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, in 
the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction of 
the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration of 
the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands pursuant 
to Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $709,733,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $3,898,000 shall be available for 
assessment of the mineral potential of public lands in Alaska pursuant 
to section 1010 of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150); and of which not 
to exceed $1,000,000 shall be derived from the special receipt account 
established by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965, as amended 
(16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)); and of which $3,000,000 shall be available in 
fiscal year 2001 subject to a match by at least an equal amount by the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, to such Foundation for cost-
shared projects supporting conservation of Bureau lands and such funds 
shall be advanced to the Foundation as a lump sum grant without regard 
to when expenses are incurred; in addition, $34,328,000 for Mining Law 
Administration program operations, including the cost of administering 
the mining claim fee program; to remain available until expended, to be 
reduced by amounts collected by the Bureau and credited to this 
appropriation from annual mining claim fees so as to result in a final 
appropriation estimated at not more than $709,733,000, and $2,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, from communication site rental fees 
established by the Bureau for the cost of administering communication 
site activities: Provided, That appropriations herein made

[[Page 114 STAT. 923]]

shall not be available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild 
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors.

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, suppression 
operations, research, emergency rehabilitation and hazardous fuels 
reduction by the Department of the Interior, $425,513,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $30,000,000 shall be 
for the renovation or construction of fire facilities: Provided, That 
such funds are also available for repayment of advances to other 
appropriation accounts from which funds were previously transferred for 
such purposes: Provided further, That unobligated balances of amounts 
previously appropriated to the ``Fire Protection'' and ``Emergency 
Department of the Interior Firefighting Fund'' may be transferred and 
merged with this appropriation: Provided further, That persons hired 
pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished subsistence and lodging 
without cost from funds available from this appropriation: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau 
or office of the Department of the Interior for fire protection rendered 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United States 
property, may be credited to the appropriation from which funds were 
expended to provide that protection, and are available without fiscal 
year limitation.
    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'', 
$200,000,000, to remain available until expended, for emergency 
rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That this 
amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined by 
such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the remedial action, including 
associated activities, of hazardous waste substances, pollutants, or 
contaminants pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, sums recovered from or paid by a party 
in advance of or as reimbursement for remedial action or response 
activities conducted by the Department pursuant to section 107 or 113(f) 
of such Act, shall be credited to this account to be available until 
expended without further appropriation: Provided further, That such sums 
recovered from or paid by any party are not limited to monetary payments 
and may include stocks, bonds or other personal or real property, which 
may be retained, liquidated, or otherwise disposed of by the Secretary 
and which shall be credited to this account.

[[Page 114 STAT. 924]]

                              construction

    For construction of buildings, recreation facilities, roads, trails, 
and appurtenant facilities, $16,860,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        payments in lieu of taxes

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 20, 1976, as 
amended (31 U.S.C. 6901-6907), $150,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided, That 
no payment shall be made to otherwise eligible units of local government 
if the computed amount of the payment is less than $100.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) of 
Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition of 
lands or waters, or interests therein, $31,100,000, to be derived from 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                    oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-of-
way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein including existing 
connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; $104,267,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the 
aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year from the 
revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby made a 
charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and shall be 
transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance with the 
second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August 28, 
1937 (50 Stat. 876).

               forest ecosystems health and recovery fund

                    (revolving fund, special account)

    In addition to the purposes authorized in Public Law 102-381, funds 
made available in the Forest Ecosystem Health and Recovery Fund can be 
used for the purpose of planning, preparing, and monitoring salvage 
timber sales and forest ecosystem health and recovery activities such as 
release from competing vegetation and density control treatments. The 
Federal share of receipts (defined as the portion of salvage timber 
receipts not paid to the counties under 43 U.S.C. 1181f and 43 U.S.C. 
1181-1 et seq., and Public Law 103-66) derived from treatments funded by 
this account shall be deposited into the Forest Ecosystem Health and 
Recovery Fund.

[[Page 114 STAT. 925]]

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent of 
all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 
of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315 et seq.) and the amount 
designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral leasing 
receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the Department of the 
Interior pursuant to law, but not less than $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be collected 
under Public Law 94-579, as amended, and Public Law 93-153, to remain 
available until expended: <<NOTE: 43 USC 1735 note.>>  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of 
Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will 
be received pursuant to that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, 
compromise, or settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to 
section 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and 
may be expended under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to 
improve, protect, or rehabilitate any public lands administered through 
the Bureau of Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a 
resource developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, 
without regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are 
used on the exact lands damaged which led to the action: Provided 
further, That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to 
repair damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be 
used to repair other damaged public lands.

                        miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of the Act of October 21, 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701), and 
such amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act, to remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management shall be available 
for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary structures, and 
alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and appurtenant 
facilities to which the United States has title; up to $100,000 for 
payments, at the discretion of the Secretary,

[[Page 114 STAT. 926]]

for information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered 
by the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on his certificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Bureau may, under cooperative cost-
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share the cost of printing either 
in cash or in services, and the Bureau determines the cooperator is 
capable of meeting accepted quality standards.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                           resource management

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, for scientific and economic studies, conservation, management, 
investigations, protection, and utilization of fishery and wildlife 
resources, except whales, seals, and sea lions, maintenance of the herd 
of long-horned cattle on the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge, general 
administration, and for the performance of other authorized functions 
related to such resources by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, 
cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and 
private entities, $776,595,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002, except as otherwise provided herein, of which not less than 
$2,000,000 shall be provided to local governments in southern California 
for planning associated with the Natural Communities Conservation 
Planning (NCCP) program and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not less than $1,000,000 for high priority projects which 
shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by 
the Act of August 13, 1970, as amended: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $6,355,000 shall be used for implementing subsections (a), (b), 
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act, as amended, for 
species that are indigenous to the United States (except for processing 
petitions, developing and issuing proposed and final regulations, and 
taking any other steps to implement actions described in subsection 
(c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)): Provided further, That of 
the amount available for law enforcement, up to $400,000 to remain 
available until expended, may at the discretion of the Secretary, be 
used for payment for information, rewards, or evidence concerning 
violations of laws administered by the Service, and miscellaneous and 
emergency expenses of enforcement activity, authorized or approved by 
the Secretary and to be accounted for solely on his certificate: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided for environmental 
contaminants, up to $1,000,000 may remain available until expended for 
contaminant sample analyses.

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fishery and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$63,015,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That,

[[Page 114 STAT. 927]]

notwithstanding any provision of law or regulation, funds appropriated 
in Public Law 106-113 for exhibits at the J.N. Ding Darling National 
Wildlife Refuge Education Center in Florida shall be transferred 
immediately to the Ding Darling Wildlife Society for the purpose of 
constructing the exhibits.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority applicable to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, $62,800,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531-1543), as amended, $26,925,000, to 
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                      national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $11,439,000.

                north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act, Public Law 101-233, as amended, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended.

               wildlife conservation and appreciation fund

    For necessary expenses of the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation 
Fund, $797,000, to remain available until expended.

                 multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201-4203, 4211-4213, 4221-4225, 4241-4245, 
and 1538), the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-
96; 16 U.S.C. 4261-4266), and the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act 
of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301-5306), $2,500,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That funds made available under this Act and Public 
Law 105-277 for rhinoceros, tiger, and Asian elephant conservation 
programs are exempt from any sanctions imposed against any country under 
section 102 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa-1).

                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations and funds available to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall be available for purchase of not to exceed 79 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 72 are for replacement only 
(including 41 for police-type use); repair of damage to public roads 
within and adjacent to reservation areas caused by operations of

[[Page 114 STAT. 928]]

the Service; options for the purchase of land at not to exceed $1 for 
each option; facilities incident to such public recreational uses on 
conservation areas as are consistent with their primary purpose; and the 
maintenance and improvement of aquaria, buildings, and other facilities 
under the jurisdiction of the Service and to which the United States has 
title, and which are used pursuant to law in connection with management 
and investigation of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service may, under cooperative cost 
sharing and partnership arrangements authorized by law, procure printing 
services from cooperators in connection with jointly produced 
publications for which the cooperators share at least one-half the cost 
of printing either in cash or services and the Service determines the 
cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality standards: Provided 
further, That the Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements 
for existing aircraft: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior may not spend any of the 
funds appropriated in this Act for the purchase of lands or interests in 
lands to be used in the establishment of any new unit of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System unless the purchase is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in Senate Report 105-56.

                          National Park Service

                  operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service (including special road maintenance service to trucking 
permittees on a reimbursable basis), and for the general administration 
of the National Park Service, including not less than $2,000,000 for 
high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget which 
shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 1706, $1,389,144,000, of which $9,227,000 for research, planning 
and interagency coordination in support of land acquisition for 
Everglades restoration shall remain available until expended, and of 
which not to exceed $7,000,000, to remain available until expended, is 
to be derived from the special fee account established pursuant to title 
V, section 5201 of Public Law 100-203: Provided, That the only funds in 
this account which may be made available to support United States Park 
Police operations are those needed to continue services at the same 
level as was provided in fiscal year 2000 at the Statue of Liberty and 
Gateway National Recreation Area, and those funds approved for emergency 
law and order incidents pursuant to established National Park Service 
procedures and those funds needed to maintain and repair United States 
Park Police administrative facilities.

                        united states park police

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs of the United 
States Park Police, $78,048,000, of which $1,607,000 for security 
enhancements in the Washington, DC area shall remain available until 
expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 929]]

                  national recreation and preservation

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, 
statutory or contractual aid for other activities, and grant 
administration, not otherwise provided for, $58,359,000: Provided, That 
$1,595,000 appropriated in Public Law 105-277 for the acquisition of 
interests in Ferry Farm, George Washington's Boyhood Home, shall be 
transferred to this account and shall be available until expended for a 
cooperative agreement for management of George Washington's Boyhood 
Home, Ferry Farm, as authorized in Public Law 105-355.

                     urban park and recreation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Urban Park 
and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the Historic Preservation Act 
of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), and the Omnibus Parks and Public 
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333), $79,347,000, to be 
derived from the Historic Preservation Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002, of which $7,177,000 pursuant to section 507 of 
Public Law 104-333 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
of the total amount provided, $35,000,000 shall be for Save America's 
Treasures for priority preservation projects, including preservation of 
intellectual and cultural artifacts, preservation of historic structures 
and sites, and buildings to house cultural and historic resources and to 
provide educational opportunities: Provided further, That any individual 
Save America's Treasures grant shall be matched by non-Federal funds: 
Provided further, That individual projects shall only be eligible for 
one grant, and all projects to be funded shall be approved by the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations prior to the commitment of grant 
funds: Provided further, That Save America's Treasures funds allocated 
for Federal projects shall be available by transfer to appropriate 
accounts of individual agencies, after approval of such projects by the 
Secretary of the Interior: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided for Save America's Treasures may be used for administrative 
expenses, and staffing for the program shall be available from the 
existing staffing levels in the National Park Service.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair or replacement of physical 
facilities, including the modifications authorized by section 104 of the 
Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989, 
$242,174,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$650,000 for Lake Champlain National Historic Landmarks, $300,000 for 
the Kendall County Courthouse, and

[[Page 114 STAT. 930]]

$365,000 for the U.S. Grant Boyhood Home National Historic Landmark 
shall be derived from the Historic Preservation Fund pursuant to 16 
U.S.C. 470a.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2001 by 
16 <<NOTE: 16 USC 460l-10a note.>>  U.S.C. 460l-10a is rescinded.

                  land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including 
administrative expenses, and for acquisition of lands or waters, or 
interest therein, in accordance with the statutory authority applicable 
to the National Park Service, $110,540,000, to be derived from the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available until expended, of 
which $40,500,000 is for the State assistance program including 
$1,500,000 to administer the State assistance program, and of which 
$12,000,000 may be for State grants for land acquisition in the State of 
Florida: Provided, That the Secretary may provide Federal assistance to 
the State of Florida for the acquisition of lands or waters, or 
interests therein, within the Everglades watershed (consisting of lands 
and waters within the boundaries of the South Florida Water Management 
District, Florida Bay and the Florida Keys, including the areas known as 
the Frog Pond, the Rocky Glades and the Eight and One-Half Square Mile 
Area) under terms and conditions deemed necessary by the Secretary to 
improve and restore the hydrological function of the Everglades 
watershed: Provided further, That funds provided under this heading for 
assistance to the State of Florida to acquire lands within the 
Everglades watershed are contingent upon new matching non-Federal funds 
by the State and shall be subject to an agreement that the lands to be 
acquired will be managed in perpetuity for the restoration of the 
Everglades: Provided further, That none of the funds provided for the 
State Assistance program may be used to establish a contingency fund: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 derived from unexpended 
balances previously appropriated in Public Laws 106-113 and 103-211 for 
land acquisition assistance to the State of Florida shall be available 
until expended for project modifications authorized by section 104 of 
the Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act.

                        administrative provisions

    Appropriations for the National Park Service shall be available for 
the purchase of not to exceed 340 passenger motor vehicles, of which 273 
shall be for replacement only, including not to exceed 319 for police-
type use, 12 buses, and 9 ambulances: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to process any 
grant or contract documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 
1913: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That none of the funds 
appropriated to the National Park Service may be used to implement an 
agreement for the redevelopment of the southern end of Ellis Island 
until such agreement has been submitted to the Congress and shall not be 
implemented prior to

[[Page 114 STAT. 931]]

the expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which 
either House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of 
more than three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate 
of a full and comprehensive report on the development of the southern 
end of Ellis Island, including the facts and circumstances relied upon 
in support of the proposed project.

    None of the funds in this Act may be spent by the National Park 
Service for activities taken in direct response to the United Nations 
Biodiversity Convention.
    The National Park Service may distribute to operating units based on 
the safety record of each unit the costs of programs designed to improve 
workplace and employee safety, and to encourage employees receiving 
workers' compensation benefits pursuant to chapter 81 of title 5, United 
States Code, to return to appropriate positions for which they are 
medically able.

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); and publish 
and disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; and to 
conduct inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and 
materials processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 
98g(1)) and related purposes as authorized by law and to publish and 
disseminate data; $862,046,000, of which $62,879,000 shall be available 
only for cooperation with States or municipalities for water resources 
investigations; and of which $16,400,000 shall remain available until 
expended for conducting inquiries into the economic conditions affecting 
mining and materials processing industries; and of which $1,525,000 
shall remain available until expended for ongoing development of a 
mineral and geologic data base; and of which $32,822,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2002 for the operation and maintenance of 
facilities and deferred maintenance; and of which $157,923,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2002 for the biological research activity 
and the operation of the Cooperative Research Units: Provided, That none 
of these funds provided for the biological research activity shall be 
used to conduct new surveys on private property, unless specifically 
authorized in writing by the property owner: Provided further, That no 
part <<NOTE: 43 USC 50.>>  of this appropriation shall be used to pay 
more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water resources 
data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation with States 
and municipalities.

                        administrative provisions

    The amount appropriated for the United States Geological Survey 
shall be available for the purchase of not to exceed 53

[[Page 114 STAT. 932]]

passenger motor vehicles, of which 48 are for replacement only; 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services; contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations and 
observation wells; expenses of the United States National Committee on 
Geology; and payment of compensation and expenses of persons on the 
rolls of the Survey duly appointed to represent the United States in the 
negotiation and administration of interstate compacts: Provided, That 
activities funded by appropriations herein made may be accomplished 
through the use of contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements as 
defined in 31 U.S.C. 6302 et seq.

                       Minerals Management Service

                royalty and offshore minerals management

    For expenses necessary for minerals leasing and environmental 
studies, regulation of industry operations, and collection of royalties, 
as authorized by law; for enforcing laws and regulations applicable to 
oil, gas, and other minerals leases, permits, licenses and operating 
contracts; and for matching grants or cooperative agreements; including 
the purchase of not to exceed eight passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $133,410,000, of which $86,257,000, shall be available 
for royalty management activities; and an amount not to exceed 
$107,410,000, to be credited to this appropriation and to remain 
available until expended, from additions to receipts resulting from 
increases to rates in effect on August 5, 1993, from rate increases to 
fee collections for Outer Continental Shelf administrative activities 
performed by the Minerals Management Service over and above the rates in 
effect on September 30, 1993, and from additional fees for Outer 
Continental Shelf administrative activities established after September 
30, 1993: Provided, That to the extent $107,410,000 in additions to 
receipts are not realized from the sources of receipts stated above, the 
amount needed to reach $107,410,000 shall be credited to this 
appropriation from receipts resulting from rental rates for Outer 
Continental Shelf leases in effect before August 5, 1993: Provided 
further, That $3,000,000 for computer acquisitions shall remain 
available until September 30, 2002: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this Act shall be available for the payment of 
interest in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1721(b) and (d): Provided further, 
That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable expenses 
related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup activities: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
$15,000 under this heading shall be available for refunds of 
overpayments in connection with certain Indian leases in which the 
Director of the Minerals Management Service (MMS) concurred with the 
claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or tribes, 
or to correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments: Provided further, 
That MMS may under the royalty-in-kind pilot program use a portion of 
the revenues from royalty-in-kind sales, without regard to fiscal year 
limitation, to pay for transportation to wholesale market centers or 
upstream pooling points, and to

[[Page 114 STAT. 933]]

process or otherwise dispose of royalty production taken in kind: 
Provided further, That MMS shall analyze and document the expected 
return in advance of any royalty-in-kind sales to assure to the maximum 
extent practicable that royalty income under the pilot program is equal 
to or greater than royalty income recognized under a comparable royalty-
in-value program.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title IV, 
sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of the 
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $6,118,000, which shall be derived from the 
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                        regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, including the purchase of not to exceed 10 passenger motor 
vehicles, for replacement only; $100,801,000: Provided, That the 
Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to regulations, may use directly or 
through grants to States, moneys collected in fiscal year 2001 for civil 
penalties assessed under section 518 of the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1268), to reclaim lands adversely 
affected by coal mining practices after August 3, 1977, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That appropriations for the 
Office of <<NOTE: 30 USC 1211 note.>> Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.

                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, as amended, 
including the purchase of not more than 10 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $202,438,000, to be derived from receipts of the 
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to remain available until expended; 
of which up to $10,000,000, to be derived from the Federal Expenses 
Share of the Fund, shall be for supplemental grants to States for the 
reclamation of abandoned sites with acid mine rock drainage from coal 
mines, and for associated activities, through the Appalachian Clean 
Streams Initiative: Provided, That grants to minimum program States will 
be $1,600,000 per State in fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That of 
the funds herein provided up to $18,000,000 may be used for the 
emergency program authorized by section 410 of Public Law 95-87, as 
amended, of which no more than 25 percent shall be used for emergency 
reclamation projects in any one State and funds for federally 
administered emergency reclamation projects under this proviso shall not 
exceed $11,000,000: Provided further, That prior year unobligated funds 
appropriated for the emergency reclamation program shall not be subject 
to the 25 percent limitation per State and may be used without fiscal 
year limitation

[[Page 114 STAT. 934]]

for emergency projects: Provided further, That pursuant to Public Law 
97-365, the Department of the Interior is authorized to use up to 20 
percent from the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United 
States Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts: Provided 
further, That funds made available under title IV of Public Law 95-87 
may be used for any required non-Federal share of the cost of projects 
funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of environmental 
restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid mine drainage from 
abandoned mines: Provided further, That such projects must be consistent 
with the purposes and priorities of the Surface Mining Control and 
Reclamation Act: Provided further, That the State of Maryland may set 
aside the greater of $1,000,000 or 10 percent of the total of the grants 
made available to the State under title IV of the Surface Mining Control 
and Reclamation Act of 1977, as amended (30 U.S.C. 1231 et seq.), if the 
amount set aside is deposited in an acid mine drainage abatement and 
treatment fund established under a State law, pursuant to which law the 
amount (together with all interest earned on the amount) is expended by 
the State to undertake acid mine drainage abatement and treatment 
projects, except that before any amounts greater than 10 percent of its 
title IV grants are deposited in an acid mine drainage abatement and 
treatment fund, the State of Maryland must first complete all Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act priority one projects.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), as amended, the Education Amendments of 
1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 
1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), as amended, $1,741,212,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2002 except as otherwise provided herein, 
of which not to exceed $93,225,000 shall be for welfare assistance 
payments and notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but 
not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, 
not to exceed $125,485,000 shall be available for payments to tribes and 
tribal organizations for contract support costs associated with ongoing 
contracts, grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements entered into 
with the Bureau prior to or during fiscal year 2001, as authorized by 
such Act, except that tribes and tribal organizations may use their 
tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of ongoing 
contracts, grants, or compacts, or annual funding agreements and for 
unmet welfare assistance costs; and up to $5,000,000 shall be for the 
Indian Self-Determination Fund which shall be available for the 
transitional cost of initial or expanded tribal contracts, grants, 
compacts or cooperative agreements with the Bureau under such Act; and 
of which not to exceed $423,056,000 for school operations costs of 
Bureau-funded schools and other education programs shall become 
available on July 1, 2001, and shall remain available until September 
30, 2002; and of which not to exceed $60,194,000 shall remain available 
until expended for housing improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, 
litigation

[[Page 114 STAT. 935]]

support, self-governance grants, the Indian Self-Determination Fund, 
land records improvement, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program; and of 
which not to exceed $108,000 shall be for payment to the United Sioux 
Tribes of South Dakota Development Corporation for the purpose of 
providing employment assistance to Indian clients of the Corporation, 
including employment counseling, follow-up services, housing services, 
community services, day care services, and subsistence to help Indian 
clients become fully employed members of society: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, including but not limited to 
the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, as amended, and 25 U.S.C. 
2008, not to exceed $43,160,000 within and only from such amounts made 
available for school operations shall be available to tribes and tribal 
organizations for administrative cost grants associated with the 
operation of Bureau-funded schools: Provided further, That any forestry 
funds allocated to a tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 
2002, may be transferred during fiscal year 2003 to an Indian forest 
land assistance account established for the benefit of such tribe within 
the tribe's trust fund account: Provided further, That any such 
unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on September 30, 
2003.

                              construction

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of irrigation 
and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other facilities, including 
architectural and engineering services by contract; acquisition of 
lands, and interests in lands; and preparation of lands for farming, and 
for construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursuant to 
Public Law 87-483, $357,404,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such amounts as may be available for the construction of 
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project may be transferred to the Bureau of 
Reclamation: Provided further, That not to exceed 6 percent of contract 
authority available to the Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal 
Highway Trust Fund may be used to cover the road program management 
costs of the Bureau: Provided further, That any funds provided for the 
Safety of Dams program pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available 
on a nonreimbursable basis: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2001, 
in implementing new construction or facilities improvement and repair 
project grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to tribally 
controlled grant schools under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall use the Administrative and Audit 
Requirements and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs contained in 43 
CFR part 12 as the regulatory requirements: Provided further, That such 
grants shall not be subject to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the Secretary 
and the grantee shall negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for 
the work to be performed: Provided further, That in considering 
applications, the Secretary shall consider whether the Indian tribe or 
tribal organization would be deficient in assuring that the construction 
projects conform to applicable building standards and codes and Federal, 
tribal, or State health and safety standards as required by 25 U.S.C. 
2005(a), with respect to organizational and financial management 
capabilities: Provided further, That if the Secretary declines an 
application, the Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 25 
U.S.C. 2505(f): Provided further, That any disputes

[[Page 114 STAT. 936]]

between the Secretary and any grantee concerning a grant shall be 
subject to the disputes provision in 25 U.S.C. 2508(e).

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                 indians

    For miscellaneous payments to Indian tribes and individuals and for 
necessary administrative expenses, $37,526,000, to remain available 
until expended; of which $25,225,000 shall be available for 
implementation of enacted Indian land and water claim settlements 
pursuant to Public Laws 101-618 and 102-575, and for implementation of 
other enacted water rights settlements; of which $8,000,000 shall be 
available for Tribal compact administration, economic development and 
future water supplies facilities under Public Law 106-163; of which 
$2,127,000 shall be available pursuant to Public Laws 99-264, 100-383, 
100-580 and 103-402; and of which $2,000,000 shall be available for the 
consent decree entered by the U.S. District Court, Western District of 
Michigan in United States v. Michigan, Case No. 2:73 CV 26.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $4,500,000, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $59,682,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan programs, $488,000.

                        administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Appropriations for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (except the 
revolving fund for loans, the Indian loan guarantee and insurance fund, 
and the Indian Guaranteed Loan Program account) shall be available for 
expenses of exhibits, and purchase of not to exceed 229 passenger motor 
vehicles, of which not to exceed 187 shall be for replacement only.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office operations, pooled 
overhead general administration (except facilities operations and 
maintenance), or provided to implement the recommendations of the 
National Academy of Public Administration's August 1999 report shall be 
available for tribal contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative 
agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the 
Indian Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by this 
Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs for distribution to other tribes, 
this action shall not diminish the Federal Government's trust 
responsibility to that tribe, or the government-to-government

[[Page 114 STAT. 937]]

relationship between the United States and that tribe, or that tribe's 
ability to access future appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau, other than the amounts provided herein for assistance to 
public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available to 
support the operation of any elementary or secondary school in the State 
of Alaska.
    Appropriations made available in this or any other Act for schools 
funded by the Bureau shall be available only to the schools in the 
Bureau school system as of September 1, 1996. No funds available to the 
Bureau shall be used to support expanded grades for any school or 
dormitory beyond the grade structure in place or approved by the 
Secretary of the Interior at each school in the Bureau school system as 
of October 1, 1995. Funds made available under this Act may not be used 
to establish a charter school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is 
defined in section 1146 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 
2026)), except that a charter school that is in existence on the date of 
the enactment of this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-funded 
school before September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during that 
period, but only if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro rata 
share of funds to reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and 
personal property (including buses and vans), the funds of the charter 
school are kept separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau 
does not assume any obligation for charter school programs of the State 
in which the school is located if the charter school loses such funding. 
Employees of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a charter 
school and performing functions related to the charter school's 
operation and employees of a charter school shall not be treated as 
Federal employees for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
Code (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''). Not later than 
June 15, 2001, the Secretary of the Interior shall evaluate the 
effectiveness of Bureau-funded schools sharing facilities with charter 
schools in the manner described in the preceding sentence and prepare 
and submit a report on the finding of that evaluation to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the Senate and of the House.

                          Departmental Offices

                             Insular Affairs

                        assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, $75,471,000, of which: 
(1) $71,076,000 shall be available until expended for technical 
assistance, including maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, 
insular management controls, coral reef initiative activities, and brown 
tree snake control and research; grants to the judiciary in American 
Samoa for compensation and expenses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 
1661(c)); grants to the Government of American Samoa, in addition to 
current local revenues, for construction and support of governmental 
functions; grants to the Government of the Virgin Islands as authorized 
by law; grants to the Government of Guam, as authorized by law; and 
grants to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands as authorized 
by law (Public

[[Page 114 STAT. 938]]

Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); and (2) $4,395,000 shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 48 USC 1469b.>>  That all financial transactions of 
the territorial and local governments herein provided for, including 
such transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities established or 
used by such governments, may be audited by the General Accounting 
Office, at its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, 
United States Code: Provided further, That Northern Mariana Islands 
Covenant grant funding shall be provided according to those terms of the 
Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future United States 
Financial Assistance for the Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public 
Law 104-134: Provided further, That of the amounts provided for 
technical assistance, not to exceed $300,000 may be made available for 
transfer to the Disaster Assistance Direct Loan Program Account of the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency for the purpose of covering the cost 
of forgiving a portion of the obligation of the Government of the Virgin 
Islands to pay interest which has accrued on Community Disaster Loan 841 
during fiscal year 2000, as required by section 504 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended (2 U.S.C. 661c): Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Grants. Close Up Foundation.>>  That of the amounts 
provided for technical assistance, sufficient funding shall be made 
available for a grant to the Close Up Foundation: Provided further, That 
of the amounts provided for technical assistance, the amount of $700,000 
shall be made available to the Prior Service Benefits Trust Fund for its 
program of benefit payments to individuals: Provided further, That none 
of this amount shall be used for administrative expenses of the Prior 
Service Benefits Trust Fund: Provided further, That the funds for the 
program of operations and maintenance improvement are appropriated to 
institutionalize routine operations and maintenance improvement of 
capital infrastructure in American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia 
through assessments of long-range operations maintenance needs, improved 
capability of local operations and maintenance institutions and agencies 
(including management and vocational education training), and project-
specific maintenance (with territorial participation and cost sharing to 
be determined by the Secretary based on the individual territory's 
commitment to timely maintenance of its capital assets): Provided 
further, That any appropriation for disaster assistance under this 
heading in this Act or previous appropriations Acts may be used as non-
Federal matching funds for the purpose of hazard mitigation grants 
provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).

                       compact of free association

    For economic assistance and necessary expenses for the Federated 
States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as 
provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, and 233 of the Compact of 
Free Association, and for economic assistance and necessary expenses for 
the Republic of Palau as provided for in sections 122, 221, 223, 232, 
and 233 of the Compact of Free Association, $20,745,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by Public Law 99-239 and Public 
Law 99-658.

[[Page 114 STAT. 939]]

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, $64,319,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 may be for official 
reception and representation expenses, of which up to $1,000,000 shall 
be available for workers compensation payments and unemployment 
compensation payments associated with the orderly closure of the United 
States Bureau of Mines, and of which $300,000 shall be for a grant to 
Alaska Pacific University for the development of an ANILCA training 
curriculum.

                         Office of the Solicitor

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $40,196,000.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$27,846,000.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For operation of trust programs for Indians by direct expenditure, 
contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, $82,628,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds for trust 
management improvements may be transferred, as needed, to the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account and to the 
Departmental Management ``Salaries and Expenses'' account: Provided 
further, That funds made available to Tribes and Tribal organizations 
through contracts or grants obligated during fiscal year 2001, as 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 
et seq.), shall remain available until expended by the contractor or 
grantee: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the statute of limitations shall not commence to run on any claim, 
including any claim in litigation pending on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, concerning losses to or mismanagement of trust funds, until 
the affected tribe or individual Indian has been furnished with an 
accounting of such funds from which the beneficiary can determine 
whether there has been a loss: Provided further, <<NOTE: 25 USC 4011 
note.>>  That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall not be required to provide a quarterly statement of performance 
for any Indian trust account that has not had activity for at least 18 
months and has a balance of $1.00 or less: Provided further, <<NOTE: 25 
USC 4011 note. Records.>>  That the Secretary shall issue an annual 
account statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and shall 
permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn upon the express 
written request of the account holder.

[[Page 114 STAT. 940]]

                        indian land consolidation

    For implementation of a program for consolidation of fractional 
interests in Indian lands and expenses associated with redetermining and 
redistributing escheated interests in allotted lands by direct 
expenditure or cooperative agreement, $9,000,000, to remain available 
until expended and which may be transferred to the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs and Departmental Management, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided, That the 
Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement, which shall not be 
subject to Public Law 93-638, as amended, with a tribe having 
jurisdiction over the reservation to implement the program to acquire 
fractional interests on behalf of such tribe: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may develop a reservation-wide system for establishing the 
fair market value of various types of lands and improvements to govern 
the amounts offered for acquisition of fractional interests: Provided 
further, That acquisitions shall be limited to one or more reservations 
as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That funds shall be 
available for acquisition of fractional interests in trust or restricted 
lands with the consent of its owners and at fair market value, and the 
Secretary shall hold in trust for such tribe all interests acquired 
pursuant to this program: Provided further, That all proceeds from any 
lease, resource sale contract, right-of-way or other transaction derived 
from the fractional interests shall be credited to this appropriation, 
and remain available until expended, until the purchase price paid by 
the Secretary under this appropriation has been recovered from such 
proceeds: Provided further, That once the purchase price has been 
recovered, all subsequent proceeds shall be managed by the Secretary for 
the benefit of the applicable tribe or paid directly to the tribe.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                 natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment activities by the 
Department of the Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 
as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-380) (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and Public Law 101-337, 
as amended (16 U.S.C. 19jj et seq.), $5,403,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, 15 aircraft, 10 of which shall be for 
replacement and which may be obtained by donation, purchase or through 
available excess surplus property: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, 
with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase 
price for the replacement aircraft: Provided further, That no programs 
funded with appropriated funds in the ``Departmental Management'', 
``Office of the Solicitor'', and ``Office of Inspector General'' may be 
augmented through the Working Capital Fund or the Consolidated Working 
Fund.

[[Page 114 STAT. 941]]

             GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 101. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes: Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section are hereby designated by Congress to be ``emergency 
requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be replenished by a 
supplemental appropriation which must be requested as promptly as 
possible.
    Sec. 102. The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer of 
any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of wildland fires on or threatening 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; for the 
emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under its jurisdiction; 
for emergency actions related to potential or actual earthquakes, 
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for contingency 
planning subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and natural 
resource damage assessment activities related to actual oil spills; for 
the prevention, suppression, and control of actual or potential 
grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction 
of the Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 1773(b) of Public 
Law 99-198 (99 Stat. 1658); for emergency reclamation projects under 
section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year 
funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of 
regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out 
the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act: Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for wildland fire operations shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection with 
their use for wildland fire operations, such reimbursement to be 
credited to appropriations currently available at the time of receipt 
thereof: Provided further, That for wildland fire operations, no funds 
shall be made available under this authority until the Secretary 
determines that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire operations'' 
shall be exhausted within thirty days: Provided further, That all funds 
used pursuant to this section are hereby designated by Congress to be 
``emergency requirements'' pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and must be 
replenished by a supplemental appropriation which must be requested as 
promptly as possible: Provided further, That such replenishment funds 
shall be used to reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which 
emergency funds were transferred.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
operation of warehouses, garages, shops, and similar facilities, 
wherever consolidation of activities will contribute to efficiency or

[[Page 114 STAT. 942]]

economy, and said appropriations shall be reimbursed for services 
rendered to any other activity in the same manner as authorized by 
sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, United States Code: Provided, That 
reimbursements for costs and supplies, materials, equipment, and for 
services rendered may be credited to the appropriation current at the 
time such reimbursements are received.
    Sec. 104. Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, when authorized by the Secretary, in total amount not to exceed 
$500,000; hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone 
service in private residences in the field, when authorized under 
regulations approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when 
authorized by the Secretary, for library membership in societies or 
associations which issue publications to members only or at a price to 
members lower than to subscribers who are not members.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations available to the Department of the Interior 
for salaries and expenses shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902 and D.C. Code 4-204).
    Sec. 106. Annual appropriations made in this title shall be 
available for obligation in connection with contracts issued for 
services or rentals for periods not in excess of 12 months beginning at 
any time during the fiscal year.
    Sec. 107. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore leasing and 
related activities placed under restriction in the President's 
moratorium statement of June 26, 1990, in the areas of northern, 
central, and southern California; the North Atlantic; Washington and 
Oregon; and the eastern Gulf of Mexico south of 26 degrees north 
latitude and east of 86 degrees west longitude.
    Sec. 108. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior for the conduct of offshore oil and natural 
gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities, on lands within the 
North Aleutian Basin planning area.
    Sec. 109. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and natural gas 
preleasing, leasing and related activities in the eastern Gulf of Mexico 
planning area for any lands located outside Sale 181, as identified in 
the final Outer Continental Shelf 5-Year Oil and Gas Leasing Program, 
1997-2002.
    Sec. 110. No funds provided in this title may be expended by the 
Department of the Interior to conduct oil and natural gas preleasing, 
leasing and related activities in the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic 
planning areas.
    Sec. 111. Advance payments made under this title to Indian tribes, 
tribal organizations, and tribal consortia pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or 
the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) may 
be invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or consortium 
before such funds are expended for the purposes of the grant, compact, 
or annual funding agreement so long as such funds are--
            (1) invested by the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or 
        consortium only in obligations of the United States, or in 
        obligations or securities that are guaranteed or insured by the 
        United

[[Page 114 STAT. 943]]

        States, or mutual (or other) funds registered with the 
        Securities and Exchange Commission and which only invest in 
        obligations of the United States or securities that are 
        guaranteed or insured by the United States; or
            (2) deposited only into accounts that are insured by an 
        agency or instrumentality of the United States, or are fully 
        collateralized to ensure protection of the funds, even in the 
        event of a bank failure.

    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the National 
Park Service shall not develop or implement a reduced entrance fee 
program to accommodate non-local travel through a unit. The Secretary 
may provide for and regulate local non-recreational passage through 
units of the National Park System, allowing each unit to develop 
guidelines and permits for such activity appropriate to that unit.
    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1467a.>>  Refunds or rebates received on an 
on-going basis from a credit card services provider under the Department 
of the Interior's charge card programs, hereafter may be deposited to 
and retained without fiscal year limitation in the Departmental Working 
Capital Fund established under 43 U.S.C. 1467 and used to fund 
management initiatives of general benefit to the Department of the 
Interior's bureaus and offices as determined by the Secretary or his 
designee.

    Sec. 114. Appropriations made in this Act under the headings Bureau 
of Indian Affairs and Office of Special Trustee for American Indians and 
any available unobligated balances from prior appropriations Acts made 
under the same headings, shall be available for expenditure or transfer 
for Indian trust management activities pursuant to the Trust Management 
Improvement Project High Level Implementation Plan.
    Sec. 115. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb-3 note.>>  Notwithstanding any 
provision of law, hereafter the Secretary of the Interior is authorized 
to negotiate and enter into agreements and leases, without regard to 
section 321 of chapter 314 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b), 
with any person, firm, association, organization, corporation, or 
governmental entity for all or part of the property within Fort Baker 
administered by the Secretary as part of Golden Gate National Recreation 
Area. The proceeds of the agreements or leases shall be retained by the 
Secretary and such proceeds shall be available, without future 
appropriation, for the preservation, restoration, operation, maintenance 
and interpretation and related expenses incurred with respect to Fort 
Baker properties.

    Sec. 116. A grazing permit or lease that expires (or is transferred) 
during fiscal year 2001 shall be renewed under section 402 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
1752) or if applicable, section 510 of the California Desert Protection 
Act (16 U.S.C. 410aaa-50). The terms and conditions contained in the 
expiring permit or lease shall continue in effect under the new permit 
or lease until such time as the Secretary of the Interior completes 
processing of such permit or lease in compliance with all applicable 
laws and regulations, at which time such permit or lease may be 
canceled, suspended or modified, in whole or in part, to meet the 
requirements of such applicable laws and regulations. Nothing in this 
section shall be deemed to alter the Secretary's statutory authority.
    Sec. 117. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purpose of reducing the backlog of Indian probate cases in the

[[Page 114 STAT. 944]]

Department of the Interior, the hearing requirements of chapter 10 of 
title 25, United States Code, are deemed satisfied by a proceeding 
conducted by an Indian probate judge, appointed by the Secretary without 
regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing the 
appointments in the competitive service, for such period of time as the 
Secretary determines necessary: Provided, That the basic pay of an 
Indian probate judge so appointed may be fixed by the Secretary without 
regard to the provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter III of chapter 53 
of title 5, United States Code, governing the classification and pay of 
General Schedule employees, except that no such Indian probate judge may 
be paid at a level which exceeds the maximum rate payable for the 
highest grade of the General Schedule, including locality pay.
    Sec. 118. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal Priority 
Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate tribal 
funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, unmet 
needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 2001. 
Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or 
inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation does 
not apply.
    Sec. 119. None of the funds in this Act may be used to establish a 
new National Wildlife Refuge in the Kankakee River basin that is 
inconsistent with the United States Army Corps of Engineers' efforts to 
control flooding and siltation in that area. Written certification of 
consistency shall be submitted to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations prior to refuge establishment.
    Sec. 120. <<NOTE: Virginia. Recreation and recreational areas. 16 
USC 668dd note.>>  The Great Marsh Trail at the Mason Neck National 
Wildlife Refuge in Virginia is hereby named for Joseph V. Gartlan, Jr. 
and shall hereafter be referred to in any law, document, or records of 
the United States as the ``Joseph V. Gartlan, Jr. Great Marsh Trail''.

    Sec. 121. Funds appropriated for the Bureau of Indian Affairs for 
postsecondary schools for fiscal year 2001 shall be allocated among the 
schools proportionate to the unmet need of the schools as determined by 
the Postsecondary Funding Formula adopted by the Office of Indian 
Education Programs.
    Sec. 122. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with 
respect to amounts made available for tribal priority allocations in 
Alaska, such amounts shall only be provided to tribes the membership of 
which on June 1, 2000 is composed of at least 25 individuals who are 
Natives (as such term is defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native 
Claims Settlement Act) who reside in the area generally known as the 
village for such tribe.
    (b) Amounts that would have been made available for tribal priority 
allocations in Alaska but for the limitation contained in subsection (a) 
shall be provided to the respective Alaska Native regional nonprofit 
corporation (as listed in section 103(a)(2) of Public Law 104-193, 110 
Stat. 2159) for the respective region in which a tribe subject to 
subsection (a) is located, notwithstanding any resolution authorized 
under federal law to the contrary.
    Sec. 123. (a) In this section--
            (1) the term ``Huron Cemetery'' means the lands that form 
        the cemetery that is popularly known as the Huron Cemetery,

[[Page 114 STAT. 945]]

        located in Kansas City, Kansas, as described in subsection 
        (b)(3); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

    (b)(1) The Secretary shall take such action as may be necessary to 
ensure that the lands comprising the Huron Cemetery (as described in 
paragraph (3)) are used only in accordance with this subsection.
    (2) The lands of the Huron Cemetery shall be used only--
            (A) for religious and cultural uses that are compatible with 
        the use of the lands as a cemetery; and
            (B) as a burial ground.

    (3) The description of the lands of the Huron Cemetery is as 
follows:
    The tract of land in the NW quarter of sec. 10, T. 11 S., R. 25 E., 
of the sixth principal meridian, in Wyandotte County, Kansas (as 
surveyed and marked on the ground on August 15, 1888, by William Millor, 
Civil Engineer and Surveyor), described as follows:
            ``Commencing on the Northwest corner of the Northwest 
        Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 10;
            ``Thence South 28 poles to the `true point of beginning';
            ``Thence South 71 degrees East 10 poles and 18 links;
            ``Thence South 18 degrees and 30 minutes West 28 poles;
            ``Thence West 11 and one-half poles;
            ``Thence North 19 degrees 15 minutes East 31 poles and 15 
        feet to the `true point of beginning', containing 2 acres or 
        more.''.

    Sec. 124. None of the Funds provided in this Act shall be available 
to the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Department of the Interior to 
transfer land into trust status for the Shoalwater Bay Indian Tribe in 
Clark County, Washington, unless and until the tribe and the county 
reach a legally enforceable agreement that addresses the financial 
impact of new development on the county, school district, fire district, 
and other local governments and the impact on zoning and development.
    Sec. 125. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used by the 
Department of the Interior to implement the provisions of Principle 
3(C)ii and Appendix section 3(B)(4) in Secretarial Order 3206, entitled 
``American Indian Tribal Rights, Federal-Tribal Trust Responsibilities, 
and the Endangered Species Act''.
    Sec. 126. No funds appropriated for the Department of the Interior 
by this Act or any other Act shall be used to study or implement any 
plan to drain Lake Powell or to reduce the water level of the lake below 
the range of water levels required for the operation of the Glen Canyon 
Dam.
    Sec. 127. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in conveying 
the Twin Cities Research Center under the authority provided by Public 
Law 104-134, as amended by Public Law 104-208, the Secretary may accept 
and retain land and other forms of reimbursement: Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain and use any such reimbursement until expended and 
without further appropriation: (1) for the benefit of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System within the State of Minnesota; and (2) for all 
activities authorized by Public Law 100-696; 16 U.S.C. 460zz.
    Sec. 128. Section 112 of Public Law 103-138 (107 Stat. 1399) is 
amended by striking ``permit LP-GLBA005-93'' and inserting

[[Page 114 STAT. 946]]

``permit LP-GLBA005-93 and in connection with a corporate reorganization 
plan, the entity that, after the corporate reorganization, holds entry 
permit CP-GLBA004-00 each''.
    Sec. 129. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall designate Anchorage, Alaska, as a port of entry 
for the purpose of section 9(f)(1) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
(16 U.S.C. 1538(f)(1)).
    Sec. 130. (a) The first section of Public Law 92-501 <<NOTE: 16 USC 
431 note.>>  (86 Stat. 904) is amended by inserting after the first 
sentence ``The park shall also include the land as generally depicted on 
the map entitled `subdivision of a portion of U.S. Survey 407, Tract B, 
dated May 12, 2000' ''.

    (b) Section 3 of Public Law 92-501 <<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>>  is 
amended to read as follows: ``There are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as are necessary to carry out the terms of this Act.''.

    Sec. 131. (a) All proceeds, including bonuses, rents, and royalties, 
of Oil and Gas Lease sale 991, held by the Bureau of Land Management on 
May 5, 1999, or subsequent lease sales in the National Petroleum 
Reserve--Alaska (hereafter ``proceeds'') attributable to the area 
subject to withdrawal for Kuukpik Corporation's selection under section 
22(j)(2) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, Public Law 92-203 
(85 Stat. 688), shall be deposited into a separate fund of the Treasury 
(hereafter ``fund'').
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Within 120 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the 
General Fund to the fund an amount determined by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, to be 
equal to the amount of interest income that would have been credited in 
the fund between May 5, 1999 and the date of enactment of this Act. For 
the purposes of this subsection (b), the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
calculate the interest income using a yield for a 52-week Treasury bill 
issued on or about May 5, 1999.

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  On the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall request the Secretary of the 
Treasury to invest such portion of the fund as is not, in the Secretary 
of the Interior's judgment, required to meet current payment 
requirements from the fund as determined under subsection (d). Such 
investments shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury in public 
debt securities with maturities suitable to the needs of the fund, as 
determined by the Secretary of the Interior, and bearing interest at a 
rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into 
consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable 
obligations of the United States of comparable maturity.

    (d) Hereafter, amounts in the fund shall be available to the 
Secretary of the Interior, without fiscal year limitation, and the 
Secretary of the Interior shall pay to Arctic Slope Regional Corporation 
and the State of Alaska the amount of their entitlement when determined 
in accordance with applicable law, together with interest, as calculated 
by the Secretary of the Interior, from the date of receipt of the 
proceeds by the United States to the date of payment on the 
proportionate share of the fund distributed. Any remainder shall revert 
to the General Fund of the Treasury.
    Sec. 132. <<NOTE: Harvey R. Redmond.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to Harvey 
R. Redmond of Girdwood, Alaska, at no cost, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to United States Survey No. 12192, 
Alaska,

[[Page 114 STAT. 947]]

consisting of 49.96 acres located in the vicinity of T. 9N., R., 3E., 
Seward Meridian, Alaska.

    Sec. 133. Clarification of Terms of Conveyance to Nye County, 
Nevada. Section 132(b)(3) of the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (113 Stat. 1535, 1501A-165), is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); 
        and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
                    ``(B) Lease.--Notwithstanding any provision of the 
                Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the `Recreation 
                and Public Purposes Act') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.), the 
                county may enter into a long-term lease of any of the 
                parcels described in paragraph (2) with a nonprofit 
                organization under which the nonprofit organization 
                would own and operate the Nevada Science and Technology 
                Center for public, non-commercial purposes.''.

    Sec. 134. Mississippi River Island No. 228, Iowa, Land Exchange. (a) 
Identification of Land To Be Received in Exchange.-- 
<<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director 
of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary''), shall provide Dubuque Barge & Fleeting 
Services, Inc. (referred to in this section as ``Dubuque''), a notice 
that identifies parcels of land or interests in land--
            (1) that are of a value that is approximately equal to the 
        value of a parcel comprising a 150-foot wide strip of land on 
        the west side of the northern half of Mississippi River Island 
        No. 228, as determined through an appraisal conducted in 
        conformity with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisition; and
            (2) that the Secretary would consider acceptable in exchange 
        for all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
        to that parcel.

    (b) Land for Wildlife and Fish Refuge.--Land or interests in land 
that the Secretary may consider acceptable for the purposes of 
subsection (a) include land or interests in land that would be suitable 
for inclusion in the Upper Mississippi River Wildlife and Fish Refuge.
    (c) Exchange.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 180 days after 
Dubuque offers land or interests in land identified in the notice under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall convey all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the parcel described in 
subsection (a) in exchange for the land or interests in land offered by 
Dubuque, and shall permanently discontinue barge fleeting at the 
Mississippi River island, Tract JO-4, Parcel A, in the W/2 SE/4, Section 
30, T.29N., R.2W., Jo Daviess County, Illinois, located between miles 
#578 and #579, commonly known as Pearl Island.

    Sec. 135. (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings--
            (1) in 1990, pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA), 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq., a 
        class action lawsuit was filed by Indian tribal contractors and 
        tribal consortia against the United States, the Secretary of the 
        Interior and others seeking money damages, injunctive relief, 
        and declaratory relief for alleged violations of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 948]]

        ISDEAA (Ramah Navajo Chapter v. Lujan, 112 F.3d 1455 (10th Cir. 
        1997));
            (2) the parties negotiated a partial settlement of the claim 
        totaling $76,200,000, plus applicable interest, which was 
        approved by the court on May 14, 1999;
            (3) the partial settlement was paid by the United States in 
        September 1999, in the amount of $82,000,000;
            (4) the Judgment Fund was established to pay for legal 
        judgments awarded to plaintiffs who have filed suit against the 
        United States;
            (5) the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 requires that the 
        Judgment Fund be reimbursed by the responsible agency following 
        the payment of an award from the Fund; and
            (6) the shortfall in contract support payments found by the 
        Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit in Ramah resulted 
        primarily from the non-payment or underpayment of indirect costs 
        by agencies other than the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the 
        Indian Health Service.

    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) repayment of the Judgment Fund for the partial 
        settlement in Ramah from the accounts of the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs and Indian Health Service would significantly reduce 
        funds appropriated to benefit tribes and individual Native 
        Americans; and
            (2) the Secretary of the Interior should work with the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget to secure 
        funding for repayment of the judgment in Ramah within the 
        budgets of the agencies that did not pay indirect costs to 
        plaintiffs during the period 1988 to 1993 or paid indirect costs 
        at less than rates provided under the Indian Self-Determination 
        Act during such period.

    Sec. 136. <<NOTE: 16 USC 754d.>>  In fiscal year 2001 and thereafter 
and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States Fish 
and Wildlife Service shall establish and implement a fee schedule to 
permit a return to the Service for forensic laboratory services provided 
to non-Department of the Interior entities. Fees shall be collected as 
determined appropriate by the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service 
and shall be credited to this appropriation and be available for 
expenditure without further appropriation until expended.

    Sec. 137. Boundary Adjustment to Exclude Private Land and Access 
Road, Argus Range Wilderness, California Desert Conservation Area. (a) 
Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of the Argus Range Wilderness in the 
California Desert Conservation Area, as designated by section 102(a)(1) 
of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-433; 16 
U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted to exclude from the area encompassed by 
the wilderness--
            (1) a parcel of private property located in the southwest 
        quarter of the northeast quarter of section 35, township 21 
        south, range 42 east, Mount Diablo meridian, Inyo County, 
        California; and
            (2) the roadway described in subsection (b) that is used to 
        access the private property.

    (b) Description of Roadway.--The roadway referred to in subsection 
(a) means--

[[Page 114 STAT. 949]]

            (1) the main stem of the road running east and west through 
        sections 35 and 36, township 21 south, range 42 east, and 
        section 31, township 21 south, range 43 east, Mount Diablo 
        meridian, to the point where the main stem first divides into 
        two branches to provide access to the parcel of private property 
        described in subsection (a) from the east and the north; and
            (2) each of the two branches of that road, as described in 
        paragraph (1).

    (c) Legal Description of Excluded Area.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the area to be excluded from the wilderness area pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by the Secretary. In 
connection with the main stem of the roadway described in subsection 
(b)(1), the Secretary shall exclude, at a minimum, all lands within 30 
feet of the center line of the roadway.
    Sec. 138. <<NOTE: 16 USC 668dd note.>>  (a) Pursuant to the 
provisions of section 4(a)(3) of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
Administration Act (16 U.S.C. 668dd(a)(3)), the Secretary of the 
Interior is directed to remove from the Columbia National Wildlife 
Refuge all right, title and interest of the United States in and to the 
following described properties:
            Lots 1 and 2 of Block 144, in Othello Land Company's First 
        Addition to Othello according to the recorded plat thereof, 
        together with all lands presently or formerly occupied by public 
        thoroughfares or rights of way abutting or adjoining the above 
        described land, in the County of Adams, State of Washington, 
        T.16 N., R.29E., W.M.

and to transfer said property without compensation to the City of 
Othello, Washington.
    (b) The property conveyed under this section shall be used for 
public housing or other public purpose, and all right, title and 
interest in and to such property shall revert to the United States if it 
is used for any other purpose.
    (c) The City of Othello shall hold the United States harmless, and 
shall indemnify the United States, for all claims, costs, damages, and 
judgements arising out of any act or omission relating to the property 
conveyed under this section.
    Sec. 139. Section 412(b) of the National Parks Omnibus Management 
Act of 1998, as amended (16 U.S.C. 5961) is amended by striking ``2000'' 
and inserting ``2001''.
    Sec. 140. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the National Park 
Service may authorize, through cooperative agreement, the Golden Gate 
National Parks Association to provide fee-based education, interpretive 
and visitor service functions within the Crissy Field and Fort Point 
areas of the Presidio.
    Sec. 141. <<NOTE: 16 USC 459f-5 note.>>  The building housing the 
visitors center within the boundaries of the Chincoteague National 
Wildlife Refuge on Assateague Island, Virginia, shall be known and 
designated as the ``Herbert H. Bateman Educational and Administrative 
Center'' and shall hereafter be referred to in any law, map, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States as the ``Herbert 
H. Bateman Educational and Administrative Center''.

    Sec. 142. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302(b), sums received by the 
Bureau of Land Management for the sale of seeds or seedlings including 
those collected in fiscal year 2000, may be credited to the 
appropriation from which funds were expended to acquire

[[Page 114 STAT. 950]]

or grow the seeds or seedlings and are available without fiscal year 
limitation.
    Sec. 143. Public Law 105-83 (111 Stat. 1556) is amended as follows: 
Under the heading ``Operation of Indian Programs'' in the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs strike ``non-Federal'' in the last proviso and insert in 
lieu thereof ``non-Department of the Interior''.
    Sec. 144. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
subject to subsections (b) and (c), all conveyances to the city of 
Valley City, a municipal corporation of Barnes County, North Dakota, of 
lands described in subsection (b), heretofore or hereafter made directly 
by The Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company or its 
successors, are hereby validated to the extent that the conveyances 
would be legal and valid if all right, title, and interest of the United 
States, except minerals, were held by The Burlington Northern and Santa 
Fe Railway Company.
    (b) Lands Described.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) are 
the land that formed part of the railroad right-of-way granted to the 
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a predecessor to The Burlington 
Northern and Santa Fe Railway Company, by an Act of Congress on July 2, 
1864, specifically a 400-foot wide right-of-way, being 200 feet wide on 
each side of the centerline of the rail track as originally located and 
constructed between milepost 69.05 and milepost 61.10 within Barnes 
County, North Dakota, as shown and described on the map entitled ``City 
of Valley City--Railroad Parcels'' dated September 1, 2000. Such map 
shall be placed on file and available for inspection in the offices of 
the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Access and Mineral Rights.--
            (1) Preservation of rights of access.--Nothing in this 
        section shall impair any rights of access in favor of the public 
        or any owner of adjacent lands over, under, or across the lands 
        described in section 2.
            (2) Minerals.--The United States reserves any federally 
        owned mineral rights in the lands described in subsection (b), 
        except that the United States disclaims any and all right of 
        surface entry to the mineral estate of such lands.

    Sec. 145. <<NOTE: First Ladies National Historic Site Act of 
2000. 16 USC 461 note.>>  (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as 
the ``First Ladies National Historic Site Act of 2000''.

     (b) First Ladies National Historic Site.--
            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
                    (A) Throughout the history of the United States, 
                First Ladies have had an important impact on our 
                Nation's history.
                    (B) Little attention has been paid to the role of 
                First Ladies and their impact on our Nation's history.
                    (C) Establishment of the First Ladies National 
                Historic Site will provide unique opportunities for 
                education and study into the impact of First Ladies on 
                our history.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are the 
        following:
                    (A) To preserve and interpret the role and history 
                of First Ladies for the benefit, inspiration, and 
                education of the people of the United States.
                    (B) To interpret the impact of First Ladies on the 
                history of the United States.
                    (C) To provide to school children and scholars 
                access to information about the contributions of First 
                Ladies

[[Page 114 STAT. 951]]

                through both a physical educational facility and an 
                electronic virtual library.
                    (D) To establish the First Ladies National Historic 
                Site in Canton, Ohio, the home of First Lady Ida Saxton 
                McKinley.
                    (E) To create a public-private partnership between 
                the National Park Service and the National First Ladies 
                Library.
            (3) Establishment of first ladies national historic site.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established in Canton, 
                Ohio, the First Ladies National Historic Site.
                    (B) Description.--The historic site shall consist 
                of--
                          (i) the land and improvements comprising the 
                      National Park Service property located at 331 
                      Market Avenue South in Canton, Ohio, known as the 
                      Ida Saxton McKinley House; and
                          (ii) if acquired under subsection (b)(4), 
                      National Park Service property located at 205 
                      Market Avenue South in Canton, Ohio, known as the 
                      City National Bank Building.
            (4) Acquisition of city national bank building.--The 
        Secretary may acquire by donation, for inclusion in the historic 
        site, the property located at 205 Market Avenue South in Canton, 
        Ohio, known as the City National Bank Building.
            (5) Administration of the historic site.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
                historic site in accordance with this section and the 
                provisions of law generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including the Act entitled ``An 
                Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
                purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 et 
                seq.), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666, 
                chapter 593; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
                    (B) Cooperative agreements.--
                          (i) To further the purposes of this section, 
                      the Secretary may enter into a cooperative 
                      agreement with the National First Ladies Library 
                      (a nonprofit corporation established under the 
                      laws of the District of Columbia) under which the 
                      National First Ladies Library may operate and 
                      maintain the site.
                          (ii) To further the purposes of this section, 
                      the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
                      agreements with other public and private 
                      organizations.
                    (C) Assistance.--The Secretary may provide to the 
                National First Ladies Library--
                          (i) technical assistance for the preservation 
                      of historic structures of, the maintenance of the 
                      cultural landscape of, and local preservation 
                      planning for, the historic site; and
                          (ii) subject to the availability of 
                      appropriations, financial assistance for the 
                      operation and maintenance of the historic site.
                    (D) Admission fees.--The Secretary may authorize the 
                National First Ladies Library to--
                          (i) charge fees for admission to the historic 
                      site; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 952]]

                          (ii) retain and use for the historic site 
                      amounts paid as such fees.
                    (E) Management of property.--The Secretary may 
                authorize the National First Ladies Library--
                          (i) to manage any property within the historic 
                      site;
                          (ii) to lease to other public or private 
                      entities any property managed under subparagraph 
                      (i) by the National First Ladies Library; and
                          (iii) to retain and use for the historic site 
                      amounts received under such leases.
            (6) General management plan.--
                    (A) In general.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 
                the last day of the third full fiscal year beginning 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
                shall, in consultation with the officials described in 
                paragraph (B), prepare a general management plan for the 
                historic site.
                    (B) Consultation.--In preparing the general 
                management plan, the Secretary shall consult with an 
                appropriate official of--
                          (i) the National First Ladies Library; and
                          (ii) appropriate political subdivisions of the 
                      State of Ohio that have jurisdiction over the area 
                      where the historic site is located.
                    (C) Submission of plan to congress.--Upon the 
                completion of the general management plan, the Secretary 
                shall submit a copy of the plan to the Committee on 
                Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives.
            (7) Definitions.--In this section:
                    (A) Historic site.--The term ``historic site'' means 
                the First Ladies National Historic Site established by 
                subsection (b)(3).
                    (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of the Interior.

    Sec. 146. (a) Contributions Toward Establishment of Abraham Lincoln 
Interpretive Center.--
            (1) Grants authorized.--Subject to subsections (a)(2) and 
        (a)(3), the Secretary of the Interior shall make grants to 
        contribute funds for the establishment in Springfield, Illinois, 
        of an interpretive center to preserve and make available to the 
        public materials related to the life of President Abraham 
        Lincoln and to provide interpretive and educational services 
        which communicate the meaning of the life of Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) Plan and design.--
                    (A) Submission.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 
                18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                the entity selected by the Secretary of the Interior to 
                receive grants under subsection (a)(1) shall submit to 
                the Secretary a plan and design for the interpretive 
                center, including a description of the following:
                          (i) The design of the facility and site.
                          (ii) The method of acquisition.
                          (iii) The estimated cost of acquisition, 
                      construction, operation, and maintenance.

[[Page 114 STAT. 953]]

                          (iv) The manner and extent to which non-
                      Federal entities will participate in the 
                      acquisition, construction, operation, and 
                      maintenance of the center.
                    (B) Consultation and cooperation.--The plan and 
                design for the interpretive center shall be prepared in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the 
                Governor of Illinois and in cooperation with such other 
                public, municipal, and private entities as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
            (3) Conditions on grant.--
                    (A) Matching requirement.--A grant under subsection 
                (a)(1) may not be made until such time as the entity 
                selected to receive the grant certifies to the Secretary 
                of the Interior that funds have been contributed by the 
                State of Illinois or raised from non-Federal sources for 
                use to establish the interpretive center in an amount 
                equal to at least double the amount of that grant.
                    (B) Relation to other lincoln-related sites and 
                museums.--The Secretary of the Interior shall further 
                condition the grant under subsection (a)(1) on the 
                agreement of the grant recipient to operate the 
                resulting interpretive center in cooperation with other 
                Federal and non-Federal historic sites, parks, and 
                museums that represent significant locations or events 
                in the life of Abraham Lincoln. Cooperative efforts to 
                promote and interpret the life of Abraham Lincoln may 
                include the use of cooperative agreements, cross 
                references, cross promotion, and shared exhibits.
            (4) Prohibition on contribution of operating funds.--Grant 
        amounts may not be used for the maintenance or operation of the 
        interpretive center.
            (5) Non-federal operation.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall have no involvement in the actual operation of the 
        interpretive center, except at the request of the non-Federal 
        entity responsible for the operation of the center.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior a total of $50,000,000 to 
make grants under subsection (a)(1). Amounts so appropriated shall 
remain available for expenditure through fiscal year 2006.
    Sec. 147. <<NOTE: Palace of the Governors Annex Act.>>  (a) Short 
Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Palace of the Governors Annex 
Act''.

    (b) Construction of Palace of the Governors Annex, Santa Fe, New 
Mexico.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the United States has a rich legacy of Hispanic 
                influence in politics, government, economic development, 
                and cultural expression;
                    (B) the Palace of the Governors--
                          (i) has been the center of administrative and 
                      cultural activity over a vast region of the 
                      Southwest since its construction as New Mexico's 
                      second capitol in Santa Fe by Governor Pedro de 
                      Peralta in 1610;
                          (ii) is the oldest continuously occupied 
                      public building in the continental United States, 
                      having been occupied for 390 years; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 954]]

                          (iii) has been designated as a National 
                      Historic Landmark;
                    (C) since its creation, the Museum of New Mexico has 
                worked to protect and promote Southwestern, Hispanic, 
                and Native American arts and crafts;
                    (D) the Palace of the Governors houses the history 
                division of the Museum of New Mexico;
                    (E) the Museum has an extensive, priceless, and 
                irreplaceable collection of--
                          (i) Spanish Colonial paintings (including the 
                      Segesser Hide Paintings, paintings on buffalo hide 
                      dating back to 1706);
                          (ii) pre-Columbian Art; and
                          (iii) historic artifacts, including--
                                    (I) helmets and armor worn by the 
                                Don Juan de Onate expedition 
                                conquistadors who established the first 
                                capital in the territory that is now the 
                                United States, San Juan de los 
                                Caballeros, in July 1598;
                                    (II) the Vara Stick used to measure 
                                land grants and other real property 
                                boundaries in Dona Ana County, New 
                                Mexico;
                                    (III) the Columbus, New Mexico 
                                Railway Station clock that was shot, 
                                stopping the pendulum, freezing for all 
                                history the moment when Pancho Villa's 
                                raid began;
                                    (IV) the field desk of Brigadier 
                                General Stephen Watts Kearny, who was 
                                posted to New Mexico during the Mexican 
                                War and whose Army of the West traveled 
                                the Santa Fe trail to occupy the 
                                territories of New Mexico and 
                                California; and
                                    (V) more than 800,000 other historic 
                                photographs, guns, costumes, maps, 
                                books, and handicrafts;
                    (F) the Palace of the Governors and its contents are 
                included in the Mary C. Skaggs Centennial Collection of 
                America's Treasures;
                    (G) the Palace of the Governors and the Segesser 
                Hide paintings have been declared national treasures by 
                the National Trust for Historic Preservation; and
                    (H) time is of the essence in the construction of an 
                annex to the Palace of the Governors for the exhibition 
                and storing of the collection described in paragraph 
                (E), because--
                          (i) the existing facilities for exhibiting and 
                      storing the collection are so inadequate and 
                      unsuitable that existence of the collection is 
                      endangered and its preservation is in jeopardy; 
                      and
                          (ii) 2010 marks the 400th anniversary of the 
                      continuous occupation and use of the Palace of the 
                      Governors and is an appropriate date for ensuring 
                      the continued viability of the collection.
            (2) Definitions.--In this section:
                    (A) Annex.--The term ``Annex'' means the annex for 
                the Palace of the Governors of the Museum of New Mexico, 
                to be constructed behind the Palace of the Governors 
                building at 110 Lincoln Avenue, Santa Fe, New Mexico.

[[Page 114 STAT. 955]]

                    (B) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the State 
                Office of Cultural Affairs.
                    (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of the Interior.
                    (D) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
                New Mexico.
            (3) Grant.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, the Secretary shall make a grant to the 
                Office to pay 50 percent of the costs of the final 
                design, construction, management, inspection, 
                furnishing, and equipping of the Annex.
                    (B) Requirements.--Subject to the availability of 
                appropriations, to receive a grant under this paragraph 
                (A), the Office shall--
                          (i) submit to the Secretary a copy of the 
                      architectural blueprints for the Annex; and
                          (ii) enter into a memorandum of understanding 
                      with the Secretary under subsection ((b)(4).
            (4) Memorandum of understanding.--At the request of the 
        Office, the Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of 
        understanding with the Office that--
                    (A) requires that the Office award the contract for 
                construction of the Annex after a competitive bidding 
                process and in accordance with the New Mexico 
                Procurement Code; and
                    (B) specifies a date for completion of the Annex.
            (5) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share of the costs 
        of the final design, construction, management, inspection, 
        furnishing, and equipping of the Annex--
                    (A) may be in cash or in kind fairly evaluated, 
                including land, art and artifact collections, plant, 
                equipment, or services; and
                    (B) shall include any contribution received by the 
                State (including contributions from the New Mexico 
                Foundation and other endowment funds) for, and any 
                expenditure made by the State for, the Palace of the 
                Governors or the Annex, including--
                          (i) design;
                          (ii) land acquisition (including the land at 
                      110 Lincoln Avenue, Santa Fe, New Mexico);
                          (iii) acquisitions for and renovation of the 
                      library;
                          (iv) conservation of the Palace of the 
                      Governors;
                          (v) construction, management, inspection, 
                      furnishing, and equipping of the Annex; and
                          (vi) donations of art collections and 
                      artifacts to the Museum of New Mexico on or after 
                      the date of enactment of this section.
            (6) Use of funds.--The funds received under a grant awarded 
        under subsection (b)(3) shall be used only for the final design, 
        construction, management, inspection, furnishing and equipment 
        of the Annex.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to paragraph (B), subject 
                to the availability of appropriations, there is 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
                out this section $15,000,000, to remain available until 
                expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 956]]

                    (B) Condition.--Paragraph (A) authorizes sums to be 
                appropriated on the condition that--
                          (i) after the date of enactment of this 
                      section and before January 1, 2010, the State 
                      appropriate at least $8,000,000 to pay the costs 
                      of the final design, construction, management, 
                      inspection, furnishing, and equipping of the 
                      Annex; and
                          (ii) other non-Federal sources provide 
                      sufficient funds to pay the remainder of the 50 
                      percent non-Federal share of those costs.

    Sec. 148. (a) Section 104 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish 
in the Department of the Interior the Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage 
Preservation Commission, and for other purposes'', approved November 19, 
1988 <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> (Public Law 100-698) is amended--
            (1) in the flush material at the end of subsection (a), by 
        striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``20 years''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``10 years'' and 
        inserting ``20 years''.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 105 of the Act 
entitled ``An Act to establish in the Department of the Interior the 
Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission, and for 
other purposes'', approved November 19, 1988 (Public Law 100-698) 
is <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> amended by inserting ``for each of fiscal 
years 2001 through 2010'' after ``$3,000,000''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> amendment made 
by section 1 shall be deemed to have taken effect on November 18, 1998.

    Sec. 149. Redesignation of Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area 
as Cuyahoga Valley National Park. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ff note.>>  (a) 
Redesignation.--The Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area is 
redesignated as Cuyahoga Valley National Park.

    (b) References.-- <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ff note.>> Any reference in a 
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United 
States to the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area is deemed to be a 
reference to Cuyahoga Valley National Park.

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for 
the establishment of the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area'' 
(Public Law 93-555; 16 U.S.C. 460ff et seq.), approved December 27, 
1974, is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ff.>>  in section 1 by striking 
        ``National Recreation Area'' and inserting ``National Park''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``recreation area'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``park''.

    (d) Clerical Amendments.--Section 5 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 460ff-4) 
is repealed, and section 6 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 460ff-5) is 
redesignated as section 5.
    Sec. 150. <<NOTE: National Underground Railroad Freedom Center 
Act. 16 USC 461 note.>>  (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as 
the ``National Underground Railroad Freedom Center Act''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 16 USC 469l-2 note.>>  Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center 
                (hereinafter ``Freedom Center'') is a nonprofit 
                organization incorporated under the laws of the State of 
                Ohio in 1995;
                    (B) the objectives of the Freedom Center are to 
                interpret the history of the Underground Railroad 
                through development of a national cultural institution 
                in Cincinnati, Ohio, that will house an interpretive 
                center, including

[[Page 114 STAT. 957]]

                museum, educational, and research facilities, all 
                dedicated to communicating to the public the importance 
                of the quest for human freedom which provided the 
                foundation for the historic and inspiring story of the 
                Underground Railroad;
                    (C) the city of Cincinnati has granted exclusive 
                development rights for a prime riverfront location to 
                the Freedom Center;
                    (D) the Freedom Center will be a national center 
                linked through state-of-the-art technology to 
                Underground Railroad sites and facilities throughout the 
                United States and to a constituency that reaches across 
                the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and 
                beyond; and
                    (E) the Freedom Center has reached an agreement with 
                the National Park Service to pursue a range of 
                historical and educational cooperative activities 
                related to the Underground Railroad, including but not 
                limited to assisting the National Park Service in the 
                implementation of the National Underground Railroad 
                Network to Freedom Act.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to promote preservation and public awareness of 
                the history of the Underground Railroad;
                    (B) to assist the Freedom Center in the development 
                of its programs and facilities in Cincinnati, Ohio; and
                    (C) to assist the National Park Service in the 
                implementation of the National Underground Railroad 
                Network to Freedom Act (112 Stat. 679; 16 U.S.C. 469l 
                and following).

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) Project budget.--The term ``project budget'' means the 
        total amount of funds expended by the Freedom Center on 
        construction of its facility, development of its programs and 
        exhibits, research, collection of informative and educational 
        activities related to the history of the Underground Railroad, 
        and any administrative activities necessary to the operation of 
        the Freedom Center, prior to the opening of the Freedom Center 
        facility in Cincinnati, Ohio.
            (3) Federal share.--The term ``Federal share'' means an 
        amount not to exceed 20 percent of the project budget and shall 
        include all amounts received from the Federal Government under 
        this legislation and any other Federal programs.
            (4) Non-federal share.--The term ``non-Federal share'' means 
        all amounts obtained by the Freedom Center for the 
        implementation of its facilities and programs from any source 
        other than the Federal Government, and shall not be less than 80 
        percent of the project budget.
            (5) The freedom center facility.--The term ``the Freedom 
        Center facility'' means the facility, including the building and 
        surrounding site, which will house the museum and research 
        institute to be constructed and developed in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
        on the site described in subsection (d)(3).

    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Program authorized.--From sums appropriated pursuant to 
        the authority of subsection (d)(4) in any fiscal

[[Page 114 STAT. 958]]

        year, the Secretary is authorized and directed to provide 
        financial assistance to the Freedom Center, in order to pay the 
        Federal share of the cost of authorized activities described in 
        subsection (e).
            (2) Expenditure on non-federal property.--The Secretary is 
        authorized to expend appropriated funds under subsection (d)(1) 
        of this section to assist in the construction of the Freedom 
        Center facility and the development of programs and exhibits for 
        that facility which will be funded primarily through private and 
        non-Federal funds, on property owned by the city of Cincinnati, 
        Hamilton County, and the State of Ohio.
            (3) Description of the freedom center facility site.--The 
        facility referred to in subsections (d)(1) and (d)(2) will be 
        located on a site described as follows: a 2-block area south of 
        new South Second, west of Walnut Street, north of relocated 
        Theodore M. Berry Way, and east of Vine Street in Cincinnati, 
        Ohio.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated $16,000,000 for the 4 fiscal year period 
        beginning October 1, 1999. Funds not to exceed that total amount 
        may be appropriated in 1 or more of such fiscal years. Funds 
        shall not be disbursed until the Freedom Center has commitments 
        for a minimum of 50 percent of the non-Federal share.
            (5) Availability of funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, funds appropriated to carry out the provisions 
        of this section shall remain available for obligation and 
        expenditure until the end of the fiscal year succeeding the 
        fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.
            (6) Other provisions.--Any grant made under this section 
        shall provide that--
                    (A) no change or alteration may be made in the 
                Freedom Center facility except with the agreement of the 
                property owner and the Secretary;
                    (B) the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
                reasonable times to the public portions of the Freedom 
                Center facility for interpretive and other purposes; and
                    (C) conversion, use, or disposal of the Freedom 
                Center facility for purposes contrary to the purposes of 
                this section, as determined by the Secretary, shall 
                result in a right of the United States to compensation 
                equal to the greater of--
                          (i) all Federal funds made available to the 
                      grantee under this section; or
                          (ii) the proportion of the increased value of 
                      the Freedom Center facility attributable to such 
                      funds, as determined at the time of such 
                      conversion, use, or disposal.

    (e) Authorized Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Freedom Center may engage in any 
        activity related to its objectives addressed in subsection 
        (b)(1), including, but not limited to, construction of the 
        Freedom Center facility, development of programs and exhibits 
        related to the history of the Underground Railroad, research, 
        collection of information and artifacts and educational 
        activities related

[[Page 114 STAT. 959]]

        to the history of the Underground Railroad, and any 
        administrative activities necessary to the operation of the 
        Freedom Center.
            (2) Priorities.--The Freedom Center shall give priority to--
                    (A) construction of the Freedom Center facility;
                    (B) development of programs and exhibits to be 
                presented in or from the Freedom Center facility; and
                    (C) providing assistance to the National Park 
                Service in the implementation of the National 
                Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act (16 U.S.C. 
                469l).

    (f) Application.--
            (1) In General.--The Freedom Center shall submit an 
        application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary 
        may reasonably require. Each application shall--
                    (A) describe the activities for which assistance is 
                sought;
                    (B) provide assurances that the non-Federal share of 
                the cost of activities of the Freedom Center shall be 
                paid from non-Federal sources, together with an 
                accounting of costs expended by the Freedom Center to 
                date, a budget of costs to be incurred prior to the 
                opening of the Freedom Center facility, an accounting of 
                funds raised to date, both Federal and non-Federal, and 
                a projection of funds to be raised through the 
                completion of the Freedom Center facility.
            (2) Approval.--The Secretary shall approve the application 
        submitted pursuant to subsection (f)(1) unless such application 
        fails to comply with the provisions of this section.

    (g) Reports.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Freedom Center shall submit 
an annual report to the appropriate committees of the Congress not later 
than January 31, 2000, and each succeeding year thereafter for any 
fiscal year in which Federal funds are expended pursuant to this 
section. The report shall--
            (1) include a financial statement addressing the Freedom 
        Center's costs incurred to date and projected costs, and funds 
        raised to date and projected fundraising goals;
            (2) include a comprehensive and detailed description of the 
        Freedom Center's activities for the preceding and succeeding 
        fiscal years; and
            (3) include a description of the activities taken to assure 
        compliance with this section.

    (h) Amendment to the National Underground Railroad Network to 
Freedom Act of 1998.--The National Underground Railroad Network to 
Freedom Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 679; 16 U.S.C. 469l and following) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 4. PRESERVATION OF HISTORIC SITES OR STRUCTURES.

    ``(a) Authority to Make Grants.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
make grants in accordance with this section for the preservation and 
restoration of historic buildings or structures associated with the 
Underground Railroad, and for related research and documentation to 
sites, programs, or facilities that have been included in the national 
network.
    ``(b) Grant Conditions.--Any grant made under this section shall 
provide that--

[[Page 114 STAT. 960]]

            ``(1) no change or alteration may be made in property for 
        which the grant is used except with the agreement of the 
        property owner and the Secretary;
            ``(2) the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
        reasonable times to the public portions of such property for 
        interpretive and other purposes; and
            ``(3) conversion, use, or disposal of such property for 
        purposes contrary to the purposes of this Act, as determined by 
        the Secretary, shall result in a right of the United States to 
        compensation equal to all Federal funds made available to the 
        grantee under this Act.

    ``(c) Matching Requirement.--The Secretary may obligate funds made 
available for a grant under this section only if the grantee agrees to 
match, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, the amount of the 
grant with an amount that is equal to or greater than the grant. The 
Secretary may waive the requirement of the preceding sentence with 
respect to a grant if the Secretary determines that an extreme emergency 
exists or that such a waiver is in the public interest to assure the 
preservation of historically significant resources.
    ``(d) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary for purposes of this section $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2001 
and each subsequent fiscal year. Amounts authorized but not appropriated 
in a fiscal year shall be available for appropriation in subsequent 
fiscal years.''.
    Sec. 151. Priority Abandoned Mine and Acid Mine Remediation. For 
expenses necessary to reclaim abandoned coal mine sites and for acid 
mine drainage remediation caused by past coal mining practices in the 
anthracite region of Pennsylvania and other purposes consistent with 
title IV of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, 
Public Law 95-87, as amended, to be granted to the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania in addition to the amount granted under sections 402(g)(1) 
and 402(g)(5) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, 
$12,600,000, to be derived from funds pursuant to section 402(g)(2) of 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of these funds, $600,000 will be 
specifically used to continue a demonstration project funded in Public 
Law 106-113, in accordance with section 401(c)(6) of the Act to 
determine the efficacy of improving water quality by removing metals 
from eligible waters polluted by acid mine drainage.
    Sec. 152. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from the 
unobligated balances derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
appropriated in fiscal year 2000 for acquisition of land at Nisqually 
National Wildlife Refuge (Black River), $850,000, together with other 
sums as may become available, is for the Nisqually Indian Tribe to 
acquire the fee title to the Kenneth W. Braget farm under the terms and 
conditions of the existing Purchase and Sale Agreement. The Nisqually 
Indian Tribe shall enter into a 25 year cooperative agreement/renewable 
lease with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to manage those lands 
within the approved refuge boundary as part of the Nisqually National 
Wildlife Refuge. Such lands within the approved refuge boundary shall be 
managed in perpetuity for refuge purposes.
    Sec. 153. Tribal School Construction Demonstration Program. (a) 
Definitions.--In this section:

[[Page 114 STAT. 961]]

            (1) Construction.--The term ``construction'', with respect 
        to a tribally controlled school, includes the construction or 
        renovation of that school.
            (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination 
        and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Tribally controlled school.--The term ``tribally 
        controlled school'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        5212 of the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 
        2511).
            (5) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of the Interior.
            (6) Demonstration program.--The term ``demonstration 
        program'' means the Tribal School Construction Demonstration 
        Program.

    (b) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out a demonstration 
program to provide grants to Indian tribes for the construction of 
tribally controlled schools.
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, in carrying out the demonstration program under 
        subsection (b), the Secretary shall award a grant to each Indian 
        tribe that submits an application that is approved by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (2). The Secretary shall ensure that 
        an eligible Indian tribe currently on the Department's priority 
        list for constructing of replacement educational facilities 
        receives the highest priority for a grant under this section.
            (2) Grant applications.--An application for a grant under 
        the section shall--
                    (A) include a proposal for the construction of a 
                tribally controlled school of the Indian tribe that 
                submits the application; and
                    (B) be in such form as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
            (3) Grant agreement.--As a condition to receiving a grant 
        under this section, the Indian tribe shall enter into an 
        agreement with the Secretary that specifies--
                    (A) the costs of construction under the grant;
                    (B) that the Indian tribe shall be required to 
                contribute towards the cost of the construction a tribal 
                share equal to 50 percent of the costs; and
                    (C) any other term or condition that the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
            (4) Eligibility.--Grants awarded under the demonstration 
        program shall only be for construction on replacement tribally 
        controlled schools.

    (c) Effect of Grant.--A grant received under this section shall be 
in addition to any other funds received by an Indian tribe under any 
other provision of law. The receipt of a grant under this section shall 
not affect the eligibility of an Indian tribe receiving funding, or the 
amount of funding received by the Indian tribe, under the Tribally 
Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) or the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
    Sec. 154. White River Oil Shale Mine, Utah. (a) Sale.--The 
Administrator of General Services (referred to in this section

[[Page 114 STAT. 962]]

as the ``Administrator'') shall sell all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to the improvements and equipment described in 
subsection (b) that are situated on the land described in subsection (c) 
(referred to in this section as the ``Mine'').
    (b) Description of Improvements and equipment.-- The improvements 
and equipment referred to in subsection (a) are the following 
improvements and equipment associated with the Mine:
            (1) Mine Service Building.
            (2) Sewage Treatment Building.
            (3) Electrical Switchgear Building.
            (4) Water Treatment Building/Plant.
            (5) Ventilation/Fan Building.
            (6) Water Storage Tanks.
            (7) Mine Hoist Cage and Headframe.
            (8) Miscellaneous Mine-related equipment.

    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the land located in Uintah County, Utah, known as the ``White River Oil 
Shale Mine'' and described as follows:
            (1) T. 10 S., R 24 E., Salt Lake Meridian, sections 12 
        through 14, 19 through 30, 33, and 34.
            (2) T. 10 S., R. 25 E., Salt Lake Meridian, sections 18 and 
        19.

    (d) Use of Proceeds.--The proceeds of the sale under subsection 
(a)--
            (1) shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury 
        of the United States; and
            (2) shall be available until expended, without further Act 
        of appropriation--
                    (A) first, to reimburse the Administrator for the 
                direct costs of the sale; and
                    (B) second, to reimburse the Bureau of Land 
                Management Utah State Office for the costs of closing 
                and rehabilitating the Mine.

    (e) Mine Closure and Rehabilitation.--The closing and rehabilitation 
of the Mine (including closing of the mine shafts, site grading, and 
surface revegetation) shall be conducted in accordance with--
            (1) the regulatory requirements of the State of Utah, the 
        Mine Safety and Health Administration, and the Occupational 
        Safety and Health Administration; and
            (2) other applicable law.

    Sec. 155. Blue Ridge Parkway. (a) The Blue Ridge Parkway 
headquarters building located at 199 Hemphill Knob in Asheville, North 
Carolina, shall be known and designated as the ``Gary E. Everhardt 
Headquarters Building''.
    (b) Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or 
other record of the United States to the headquarters building referred 
to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Gary E. 
Everhardt Headquarters Building''.
    Sec. 156. None of the funds in this Act or any other Act shall be 
used, by the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate final rules to 
revise 43 C.F.R. subpart 3809, except that the Secretary, following the 
public comment period required by section 3002 of Public Law 106-31, may 
issue final rules to amend 43 C.F.R. subpart 3809 which are not 
inconsistent with the recommendations contained in the National Research 
Council report entitled ``Hardrock Mining on Federal Lands'' so long as 
these regulations

[[Page 114 STAT. 963]]

are also not inconsistent with existing statutory authorities. Nothing 
in this section shall be construed to expand the existing statutory 
authority of the Secretary.
    Sec. 157. <<NOTE: Wheeling National Heritage Area Act of 2000. 16 
USC 461 note.>>  (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
``Wheeling National Heritage Area Act of 2000''.

    (b) Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
                    (A) the area in an around Wheeling, West Virginia, 
                possesses important historical, cultural, and natural 
                resources, representing major heritage themes of 
                transportation, commerce and industry, and Victorian 
                culture in the United States;
                    (B) the City of Wheeling has played an important 
                part in the settlement of this country by serving as--
                          (i) the western terminus of the National Road 
                      of the early 1800's;
                          (ii) the ``Crossroads of America'' throughout 
                      the nineteenth century;
                          (iii) one of the few major inland ports in the 
                      nineteenth century; and
                          (iv) the site for the establishment of the 
                      Restored State of Virginia, and later the State of 
                      West Virginia, during the Civil War and as the 
                      first capital of the new State of West Virginia;
                    (C) the City of Wheeling has also played an 
                important role in the industrial and commercial heritage 
                of the United States, through the development and 
                maintenance of many industries crucial to the Nation's 
                expansion, including iron and steel, textile 
                manufacturing, boat building, glass manufacturing, and 
                stogie and chewing tobacco manufacturing facilities, 
                many of which are industries that continue to play an 
                important role in the national economy;
                    (D) the city of Wheeling has retained its national 
                heritage themes with the designations of the old custom 
                house (now Independence Hall) and the historic 
                suspension bridge as National Historic Landmarks; with 
                five historic districts; and many individual properties 
                in the Wheeling area listed or eligible for nomination 
                to the National Register of Historic Places;
                    (E) the heritage themes and number and diversity of 
                Wheeling's remaining resources should be appropriately 
                retained, enhanced, and interpreted for the education, 
                benefit, and inspiration of the people of the United 
                States; and
                    (F) in 1992 a comprehensive plan for the development 
                and administration of the Wheeling National Heritage 
                Area was completed for the National Park Service, the 
                City of Wheeling, and the Wheeling National Task Force, 
                including--
                          (i) an inventory of the national and cultural 
                      resources in the City of Wheeling;
                          (ii) criteria for preserving and interpreting 
                      significant natural and historic resources;
                          (iii) a strategy for the conservation, 
                      preservation, and reuse of the historical and 
                      cultural resources in the City of Wheeling and the 
                      surrounding region; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 964]]

                          (iv) an implementation agenda by which the 
                      State of West Virginia and local governments can 
                      coordinate their resources as well as a complete 
                      description of the management entity responsible 
                      for implementing the comprehensive plan.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to recognize the special importance of the 
                history and development of the Wheeling area in the 
                cultural heritage of the Nation;
                    (B) to provide a framework to assist the City of 
                Wheeling and other public and private entities and 
                individuals in the appropriate preservation, 
                enhancement, and interpretation of significant resources 
                in the Wheeling area emblematic of Wheeling's 
                contributions to the Nation's cultural heritage;
                    (C) to allow for limited Federal, State and local 
                capital contributions for planning and infrastructure 
                investments to complete the Wheeling National Heritage 
                Area, in partnership with the State of West Virginia, 
                the City of Wheeling, and other appropriate public and 
                private entities; and
                    (D) to provide for an economically self-sustaining 
                National Heritage Area not dependent on Federal 
                financial assistance beyond the initial years necessary 
                to establish the heritage area.

    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``city'' means the City of Wheeling;
            (2) the term ``heritage area'' means the Wheeling National 
        Heritage Area established in subsection (d);
            (3) the term ``plan'' means the ``Plan for the Wheeling 
        National Heritage Area'' dated August, 1992;
            (4) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior; and
            (5) the term ``State'' means the State of West Virginia.

    (d) Wheeling National Heritage Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--In furtherance of the purposes of this 
        section, there is established in the State of West Virginia the 
        Wheeling National Heritage Area, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled ``Boundary Map, Wheeling National Heritage Area, 
        Wheeling, West Virginia'' and dated March, 1994. The map shall 
        be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (2) Management entity.--
                    (A) The management entity for the heritage area 
                shall be the Wheeling National Heritage Corporation, a 
                non-profit corporation chartered in the State of West 
                Virginia.
                    (B) To the extent consistent with this section, the 
                management entity shall manage the heritage area in 
                accordance with the plan.

    (e) Duties of the Management Entity.--
            (1) Mission.--
                    (A) The primary mission of the management entity 
                shall be--
                          (i) to implement and coordinate the 
                      recommendations contained in the plan;
                          (ii) ensure integrated operation of the 
                      heritage area; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 965]]

                          (iii) conserve and interpret the historic and 
                      cultural resources of the heritage area.
                    (B) The management entity shall also direct and 
                coordinate the diverse conservation, development, 
                programming, educational, and interpretive activities 
                within the heritage area.
            (2) Recognition of plan.--The management entity shall work 
        with the State of West Virginia and local governments to ensure 
        that the plan is formally adopted by the City and recognized by 
        the State.
            (3) Implementation.--To the extent practicable, the 
        management entity shall--
                    (A) implement the recommendations contained in the 
                plan in a timely manner pursuant to the schedule 
                identified in the plan;
                    (B) coordinate its activities with the City, the 
                State, and the Secretary;
                    (C) ensure the conservation and interpretation of 
                the heritage area's historical, cultural, and natural 
                resources, including--
                          (i) assisting the City and the State in the 
                      preservation of sites, buildings, and objects 
                      within the heritage area which are listed or 
                      eligible for listing on the National Register of 
                      Historic Places;
                          (ii) assisting the City, the State, or a 
                      nonprofit organization in the restoration of any 
                      historic building in the heritage area;
                          (iii) increasing public awareness of and 
                      appreciation for the natural, cultural, and 
                      historic resources of the heritage area;
                          (iv) assisting the State or City in designing, 
                      establishing, and maintaining appropriate 
                      interpretive facilities and exhibits in the 
                      heritage area;
                          (v) assisting in the enhancement of public 
                      awareness and appreciation for the historical, 
                      archaeological, and geologic resources and sites 
                      in the heritage area; and
                          (vi) encouraging the City and other local 
                      governments to adopt land use policies consistent 
                      with the goals of the plan, and to take actions to 
                      implement those policies;
                    (D) encourage intergovernmental cooperation in the 
                achievement of these objectives;
                    (E) develop recommendations for design standards 
                within the heritage area; and
                    (F) seek to create public-private partnerships to 
                finance projects and initiatives within the heritage 
                area.
            (4) Authorities.--The management entity may, for the 
        purposes of implementing the plan, use Federal funds made 
        available by this section to--
                    (A) make grants to the State, City, or other 
                appropriate public or private organizations, entities, 
                or persons;
                    (B) enter into cooperative agreements with, or 
                provide technical assistance to Federal agencies, the 
                State, City or other appropriate public or private 
                organizations, entities, or persons;

[[Page 114 STAT. 966]]

                    (C) hire and compensate such staff as the management 
                entity deems necessary;
                    (D) obtain money from any source under any program 
                or law requiring the recipient of such money to make a 
                contribution in order to receive such money;
                    (E) spend funds on promotion and marketing 
                consistent with the resources and associated values of 
                the heritage area in order to promote increased 
                visitation; and
                    (F) contract for goods and services.
            (5) Acquisition of real property.--
                    (A) Except as provided in paragraph (B), the 
                management entity may not acquire any real property or 
                interest therein within the heritage area, other than 
                the leasing of facilities.
                    (B)(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii), the management 
                entity may acquire real property, or an interest 
                therein, within the heritage area by gift or devise, or 
                by purchase from a willing seller with money which was 
                donated, bequeathed, appropriated, or otherwise made 
                available to the management entity on the condition that 
                such money be used to purchase real property, or 
                interest therein, within the heritage area.
                    (ii) Any real property or interest therein acquired 
                by the management entity pursuant to this paragraph 
                shall be conveyed in perpetuity by the management entity 
                to an appropriate public or private entity, as 
                determined by the management entity. Any such conveyance 
                shall be made as soon as practicable after acquisition, 
                without consideration, and on the condition that the 
                real property or interest therein so conveyed shall be 
                used for public purposes.
            (6) Revision of plan.--Within 18 months after the date of 
        enactment, the management entity shall submit to the Secretary a 
        revised plan. Such revision shall include, but not be limited 
        to--
                    (A) a review of the implementation agenda for the 
                heritage area;
                    (B) projected capital costs; and
                    (C) plans for partnership initiatives and expansion 
                of community support.

    (f) Duties of the Secretary.--
            (1) Interpretive support.--The Secretary may, upon request 
        of the management entity, provide appropriate interpretive, 
        planning, educational, staffing, exhibits, and other material or 
        support for the heritage area, consistent with the plan and as 
        appropriate to the resources and associated values of the 
        heritage area.
            (2) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may upon request of 
        the management entity and consistent with the plan, provide 
        technical assistance to the management entity.
            (3) Cooperative agreements and Grants.--The Secretary may, 
        in consultation with the management entity and consistent with 
        the management plan, make grants to, and enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the management entity, the State, City, non-
        profit organization or any person.
            (3) Plan amendments.--No amendments to the plan may be made 
        unless approved by the Secretary. The Secretary shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 967]]

        consult with the management entity in reviewing any proposed 
        amendments.

    (g) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal department, 
agency, or other entity conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the heritage area shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entity 
        with respect to such activities.
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management entity 
        in carrying out their duties under this Act, and to the extent 
        practicable, coordinate such activities directly with the duties 
        of the Secretary and the management entity.
            (3) to the extent practicable, conduct or support such 
        activities in a manner which the management entity determines 
        will not have an adverse effect on the heritage area.

    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $10,000,000, except that not more than 
        $1,000,000 may be appropriated to carry out this section for any 
        fiscal year.
            (2) Matching funds.--Federal funding provided under this 
        section shall be matched at least 25 percent by other funds or 
        in-kind services.

    (i) Sunset.--The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any 
assistance under this section after September 30, 2015.

                       TITLE II--RELATED AGENCIES

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                      forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $229,616,000, to remain available until expended.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, cooperative forestry, and 
education and land conservation activities and conducting an 
international program as authorized, $238,455,000, to remain available 
until expended, as authorized by law: Provided, That none of the funds 
made available by this Act shall be used for the urban resources 
partnership program.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
pest management and forest health activities on Federal, State and 
private lands, $12,500,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That these funds shall be available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined 
by such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 114 STAT. 968]]

                         national forest system

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization of the 
National Forest System, $1,280,693,000, to remain available until 
expended, which shall include 50 percent of all moneys received during 
prior fiscal years as fees collected under the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended, in accordance with section 4 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i)), of which not less than an additional 
$500,000 shall be available for use for law enforcement purposes in the 
national forest that, during calendar year 2000, had both the greatest 
number of methamphetamine dumps and the greatest number of 
methamphetamine laboratory law enforcement actions in the National 
Forest System, and of which not less than an additional $500,000 shall 
be available for law enforcement purposes on the Pisgah and Nantahala 
National Forests, and of which for the purpose of implementing the 
Valles Caldera Preservation Act, $990,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available to the Secretary for the management of the 
Valles Caldera National Preserve: Provided, That any remaining balances 
available for implementing the Valles Caldera Preservation Act be 
provided to the Valles Caldera Trust upon its assumption of the 
management of the Preserve: Provided further, <<NOTE: 16 USC 698v-5 
note.>>  That notwithstanding the limitations of 107(e)(2) of the Valles 
Caldera Preservation Act (Public Law 106-248), for fiscal years 2001 and 
2002, the members of the Board of Trustees of the Valles Caldera Trust 
may receive, upon request, compensation for each day (including travel 
time) that they are engaged in the performance of the functions of the 
Board. Compensation shall not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate in effect for members of the Senior Executive Service at the ES-1 
level, and shall be in addition to any reimbursement for travel, 
subsistence and other necessary expenses incurred by them in the 
performance of their duties. Members of the Board who are officers or 
employees of the United States shall not receive any additional 
compensation by reason of service on the Board: Provided further, That 
unobligated balances available at the start of fiscal year 2001 shall be 
displayed by extended budget line item in the fiscal year 2002 budget 
justification: Provided further, That of the amount available for 
vegetation and watershed management, the Secretary may authorize the 
expenditure or transfer of such sums as necessary to the Department of 
the Interior, Bureau of Land Management for removal, preparation, and 
adoption of excess wild horses and burros from National Forest System 
lands: Provided further, That $5,000,000 shall be allocated to the 
Alaska Region, in addition to its normal allocation for the purposes of 
preparing additional timber for sale, to establish a 3-year timber 
supply and such funds may be transferred to other appropriations 
accounts as necessary to maximize accomplishment: Provided further, That 
of the funds provided for Forest Products, $700,000 shall be provided to 
the State of Alaska for monitoring activities at Forest Service log 
transfer facilities, in the form of an advance, direct lump sum payment.

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection

[[Page 114 STAT. 969]]

agreement, and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National 
Forest System lands and water, $839,129,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such funds are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriations accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes: Provided further, That not less than 50 percent of any 
unobligated balances remaining (exclusive of amounts for hazardous fuels 
reduction) at the end of fiscal year 2000 shall be transferred, as 
repayment for post advances that have not been repaid, to the fund 
established pursuant to section 3 of Public Law 71-319 (16 U.S.C. 576 et 
seq.): Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, up to $8,600,000 of funds appropriated under this appropriation may 
be used for Fire Science Research in support of the Joint Fire Science 
Program: Provided further, That all authorities for the use of funds, 
including the use of contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, 
available to execute the Forest Service and Rangeland Research 
appropriation, are also available in the utilization of these funds for 
Fire Science Research.
    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, presuppression due to emergencies, and wildfire 
suppression activities of the Forest Service, $426,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated 
by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That these funds shall be available only to 
the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress.

                   capital improvement and maintenance

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise provided 
for, $468,568,000, to remain available until expended for construction, 
reconstruction, maintenance and acquisition of buildings and other 
facilities, and for construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance 
of forest roads and trails by the Forest Service as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That up to 
$15,000,000 of the funds provided herein for road maintenance shall be 
available for the decommissioning of roads, including unauthorized roads 
not part of the transportation system, which are no longer needed: 
Provided further, That no funds shall be expended to decommission any 
system road until notice and an opportunity for public comment has been 
provided on each decommissioning project: Provided further, That any 
unobligated balances of amounts previously appropriated to the Forest 
Service ``Construction'', ``Reconstruction and Construction'', or 
``Reconstruction and Maintenance'' accounts as well as any unobligated 
balances remaining in the ``National Forest System'' account for the 
facility maintenance and trail maintenance extended budget line items 
may be transferred to and merged with the ``Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance'' account.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C.

[[Page 114 STAT. 970]]

460l-4 through 11), including administrative expenses, and for 
acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, in accordance with 
statutory authority applicable to the Forest Service, $102,205,000 to be 
derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to remain available 
until expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $1,069,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

             acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities pursuant to the Act of 
December 4, 1967, as amended (16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until 
expended.

                          range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, as amended, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative 
expenses associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, protection, 
and improvements.

     gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $92,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage federal lands 
in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska National 
Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487), $5,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 southeast alaska economic disaster fund

    For purposes of the Southeast Alaska Economic Disaster Fund as set 
forth in section 101(c) of Public Law 104-314, the direct grants 
provided from the Fund shall be considered direct payments for purposes 
of all applicable law except that these direct grants may not be used 
for lobbying activities: Provided, That a total of $5,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated and shall be deposited into the Southeast Alaska Economic 
Disaster Fund established pursuant to Public Law 104-134, as amended, 
without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation. The Secretary 
of Agriculture shall distribute these funds to the City of Craig in 
fiscal year 2001.

[[Page 114 STAT. 971]]

                administrative provisions, forest service

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of not to exceed 132 passenger 
motor vehicles of which 13 will be used primarily for law enforcement 
purposes and of which 129 shall be for replacement; acquisition of 25 
passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire of such vehicles; 
operation and maintenance of aircraft, the purchase of not to exceed six 
for replacement only, and acquisition of sufficient aircraft from excess 
sources to maintain the operable fleet at 192 aircraft for use in Forest 
Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service programs; 
notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft being 
replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value used to 
offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) services 
pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration of buildings 
and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) acquisition of land, 
waters, and interests therein, including the Oscoda-Wurtsmith land 
exchange in Michigan, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for expenses 
pursuant to the Volunteers in the National Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost of uniforms as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt collection contracts in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    None of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended to abolish any region, to move or close any regional office 
for National Forest System administration of the Forest Service, 
Department of Agriculture without the consent of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
transferred to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation for forest 
firefighting, emergency rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands 
or waters under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
burning conditions if and only if all previously appropriated emergency 
contingent funds under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' have 
been released by the President and apportioned.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development and 
the Foreign Agricultural Service in connection with forest and rangeland 
research, technical information, and assistance in foreign countries, 
and shall be available to support forestry and related natural resource 
activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, and 
cooperation with United States and international organizations.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service under this 
Act shall be subject to transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) 
of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or 
7 U.S.C. 147b unless the proposed transfer is approved in advance by the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in compliance with the 
reprogramming procedures contained in House Report No. 105-163.
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the procedures contained 
in House Report No. 105-163.

[[Page 114 STAT. 972]]

    No funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be transferred to 
the Working Capital Fund of the Department of Agriculture without the 
approval of the Chief of the Forest Service.
    Funds available to the Forest Service shall be available to conduct 
a program of not less than $2,000,000 for high priority projects within 
the scope of the approved budget which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps as authorized by the Act of August 13, 1970, as 
amended by Public Law 93-408.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $1,500 is available to 
the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of the 
funds available to the Forest Service, up to $2,250,000 may be advanced 
in a lump sum as Federal financial assistance to the National Forest 
Foundation, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
administrative expenses or projects on or benefitting National Forest 
System lands or related to Forest Service programs: Provided, That of 
the Federal funds made available to the Foundation, no more than 
$400,000 shall be available for administrative expenses: Provided 
further, That the Foundation shall obtain, by the end of the period of 
Federal financial assistance, private contributions to match on at least 
one-for-one basis funds made available by the Forest Service: Provided 
further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a non-Federal 
recipient for a project at the same rate that the recipient has obtained 
the non-Federal matching funds: Provided further, <<NOTE: 16 USC 583j-
9.>>  That hereafter, the National Forest Foundation may hold Federal 
funds made available but not immediately disbursed and may use any 
interest or other investment income earned (before, on, or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act) on Federal funds to carry out the 
purposes of Public Law 101-593: Provided further, <<NOTE: 16 USC 583j-
9.>>  That such investments may be made only in interest-bearing 
obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both 
principal and interest by the United States.

    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, $2,650,000 of the 
funds available to the Forest Service shall be available for matching 
funds to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, as authorized by 16 
U.S.C. 3701-3709, and may be advanced in a lump sum as Federal financial 
assistance, without regard to when expenses are incurred, for projects 
on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
Service programs: Provided, That the Foundation shall obtain, by the end 
of the period of Federal financial assistance, private contributions to 
match on at least one-for-one basis funds advanced by the Forest 
Service: Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal 
funds to a non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that the 
recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities for sustainable rural development purposes.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 80 percent of the funds 
appropriated to the Forest Service in the ``National Forest System'' and 
``Capital Improvement and Maintenance'' accounts and planned to be 
allocated to activities under the ``Jobs in the Woods'' program for 
projects on National Forest land in the State of Washington may be 
granted directly to the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife 
for accomplishment of planned projects. Twenty

[[Page 114 STAT. 973]]

percent of said funds shall be retained by the Forest Service for 
planning and administering projects. Project selection and 
prioritization shall be accomplished by the Forest Service with such 
consultation with the State of Washington as the Forest Service deems 
appropriate.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to sections 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to enter into grants, 
contracts, and cooperative agreements as appropriate with the Pinchot 
Institute for Conservation, as well as with public and other private 
agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals, to provide for 
the development, administration, maintenance, or restoration of land, 
facilities, or Forest Service programs, at the Grey Towers National 
Historic Landmark: Provided, That, subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary of Agriculture may prescribe, any such public or 
private agency, organization, institution, or individual may solicit, 
accept, and administer private gifts of money and real or personal 
property for the benefit of, or in connection with, the activities and 
services at the Grey Towers National Historic Landmark: Provided 
further, That such gifts may be accepted notwithstanding the fact that a 
donor conducts business with the Department of Agriculture in any 
capacity.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available, as 
determined by the Secretary, for payments to Del Norte County, 
California, pursuant to sections 13(e) and 14 of the Smith River 
National Recreation Area Act (Public Law 101-612).
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service not to exceed $500,000 may be used 
to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department of 
Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of OGC 
assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at meetings, 
training sessions, management reviews, land purchase negotiations and 
similar non-litigation related matters. Future budget justifications for 
both the Forest Service and the Department of Agriculture should clearly 
display the sums previously transferred and the requested funding 
transfers.
    No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be detailed or 
assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any other agency 
or office of the department for more than 30 days unless the 
individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    The Forest Service shall fund indirect expenses, that is expenses 
not directly related to specific programs or to the accomplishment of 
specific work on-the-ground, from any funds available to the Forest 
Service: Provided, <<NOTE: 16 USC 579d.>>  That the Forest Service shall 
implement and adhere to the definitions of indirect expenditures 
established pursuant to Public Law 105-277 on a nationwide basis without 
flexibility for modification by any organizational level except the 
Washington Office, and when changed by the Washington Office, such 
changes in definition shall be reported in budget requests submitted by 
the Forest Service: Provided further, That the Forest Service shall 
provide in all future budget justifications, planned indirect 
expenditures in accordance with the definitions, summarized and 
displayed to the Regional, Station, Area, and

[[Page 114 STAT. 974]]

detached unit office level. The justification shall display the 
estimated source and amount of indirect expenditures, by expanded budget 
line item, of funds in the agency's annual budget justification. The 
display shall include appropriated funds and the Knutson-Vandenberg, 
Brush Disposal, Cooperative Work-Other, and Salvage Sale funds. Changes 
between estimated and actual indirect expenditures shall be reported in 
subsequent budget justifications: Provided, That during fiscal year 2001 
the Secretary shall limit total annual indirect obligations from the 
Brush Disposal, Knutson-Vandenberg, Reforestation, Salvage Sale, and 
Roads and Trails funds to 20 percent of the total obligations from each 
fund. Obligations in excess of 20 percent which would otherwise be 
charged to the above funds may be charged to appropriated funds 
available to the Forest Service subject to notification of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.

    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
used for necessary expenses in the event of law enforcement emergencies 
as necessary to protect natural resources and public or employee safety: 
Provided, That such amounts shall not exceed $750,000.
    Section 551 of the Land Between the Lakes Protection Act of 1998 (16 
U.S.C. 460lll-61) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Transition.--Until September 30, 2002, the Secretary of 
Agriculture may expend amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
to carry out this title in a manner consistent with the authorities 
exercised by the Tennessee Valley Authority, before the transfer of the 
Recreation Area to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary, 
regarding procurement of property, services, supplies, and equipment.''.
    The <<NOTE: Joyce Liverca.>>  Secretary of Agriculture shall pay 
$4,449 from available funds to Joyce Liverca as reimbursement for 
various expenses incurred as a Federal employee in connection with 
certain high priority duties performed for the Forest Service.

    The Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the sale of excess 
buildings, facilities, and other properties owned by the Forest Service 
and located on the Green Mountain National Forest, the revenues of which 
shall be retained by the Forest Service and available to the Secretary 
without further appropriation and until expended for maintenance and 
rehabilitation activities on the Green Mountain National Forest.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                          clean coal technology

                               (deferral)

    Of the funds made available under this heading for obligation in 
prior years, $67,000,000 shall not be available until October 1, 2001: 
Provided, That funds made available in previous appropriations Acts 
shall be available for any ongoing project regardless of the separate 
request for proposal under which the project was selected.

[[Page 114 STAT. 975]]

                 fossil energy research and development

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (Public Law 95-91), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal of 
mineral substances without objectionable social and environmental costs 
(30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), performed under the minerals and 
materials science programs at the Albany Research Center in Oregon 
$540,653,000, to remain available until expended, of which $12,000,000 
for oil technology research shall be derived by transfer from funds 
appropriated in prior years under the heading ``Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve, SPR Petroleum Account'' and of which $95,000,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds appropriated in prior years under the 
heading ``Clean Coal Technology'', such funds to be available for a 
general request for proposals for the commercial scale demonstration of 
technologies to assure the reliability of the Nation's energy supply 
from existing and new electric generating facilities for which the 
Department of Energy upon review may provide financial assistance 
awards: Provided, <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  That the request for proposals 
shall be issued no later than one hundred and twenty days following 
enactment of this Act, proposals shall be submitted no later than ninety 
days after the issuance of the request for proposals, and the Department 
of Energy shall make project selections no later than one hundred and 
sixty days after the receipt of proposals: Provided further, That no 
funds are to be obligated for selected proposals prior to September 30, 
2001: Provided further, That funds provided shall be expended only in 
accordance with the provisions governing the use of funds contained 
under the heading under which they were originally appropriated: 
Provided further, That provisions for repayment of government 
contributions to individual projects shall be identical to those 
included in the Program Opportunity Notice (Solicitation Number DE-PS01-
89FE 61825), issued by the Department of Energy on May 1, 1989, except 
that repayments from sale or licensing of technologies shall be from 
both domestic and foreign transactions: Provided further, That such 
repayments shall be deposited in this account to be retained for future 
projects: Provided further, That any project approved under this program 
shall be considered a Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Project, for 
the purposes of Chapters 51, 52, and 60 of title 40 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations: Provided further, That no part of the sum herein 
made available shall be used for the field testing of nuclear explosives 
in the recovery of oil and gas: Provided further, That up to 4 percent 
of program direction funds available to the National Energy Technology 
Laboratory may be used to support Department of Energy activities not 
included in this account.

[[Page 114 STAT. 976]]

                      alternative fuels production

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances under this heading, $1,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                 naval petroleum and oil shale reserves

    For expenses necessary to carry out engineering studies to determine 
the cost of development, the predicted rate and quantity of petroleum 
recovery, the methodology, and the equipment specifications for 
development of Shannon Formation at Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 3 
(NPR-3), utilizing a below-the-reservoir production method, $1,600,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 10 USC 4730 
note.>>  That the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 7430(b)(2)(B) shall not 
apply to fiscal year 2001 and any fiscal year thereafter: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated 
funds remaining from prior years shall be available for all naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                       elk hills school lands fund

    For necessary expenses in fulfilling installment payments under the 
Settlement Agreement entered into by the United States and the State of 
California on October 11, 1996, as authorized by section 3415 of Public 
Law 104-106, $36,000,000, to become available on October 1, 2001 for 
payment to the State of California for the State Teachers' Retirement 
Fund from the Elk Hills School Lands Fund.

                           energy conservation

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out energy conservation 
activities, $816,940,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$2,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from unobligated balances in the 
Biomass Energy Development account: Provided, That $191,000,000 shall be 
for use in energy conservation programs as defined in section 3008(3) of 
Public Law 99-509 (15 U.S.C. 4507): Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 3003(d)(2) of Public Law 99-509, such sums shall 
be allocated to the eligible programs as follows: $153,000,000 for 
weatherization assistance grants and $38,000,000 for State energy 
conservation grants: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Energy may waive up to fifty percent 
of the cost-sharing requirement for weatherization assistance provided 
for by Public Law 106-113 for a State which he finds to be experiencing 
fiscal hardship or major changes in energy markets or suppliers or other 
temporary limitations on its ability to provide matching funds, provided 
that the State is demonstrably engaged in continuing activities to 
secure non-federal resources and that such waiver is limited to one 
fiscal year and that no state may be granted such waiver more than 
twice: Provided further, <<NOTE: 42 USC 6863 note.>>  That, hereafter, 
Indian tribal direct grantees of weatherization assistance shall not be 
required to provide matching funds.

[[Page 114 STAT. 977]]

                           economic regulation

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Office 
of Hearings and Appeals, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       strategic petroleum reserve

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant to 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.), $165,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer of unobligated balances of 
funds previously appropriated under the heading ``SPR Petroleum 
Account'', and of which $8,000,000 shall be available for maintenance of 
a Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve.

                    energy information administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $75,675,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             administrative provisions, department of energy

    Appropriations under this Act for the current fiscal year shall be 
available for hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and 
operation of aircraft; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms; and 
reimbursement to the General Services Administration for security guard 
services.
    From appropriations under this Act, transfers of sums may be made to 
other agencies of the Government for the performance of work for which 
the appropriation is made.
    None of the funds made available to the Department of Energy under 
this Act shall be used to implement or finance authorized price support 
or loan guarantee programs unless specific provision is made for such 
programs in an appropriations Act.
    The Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, 
and other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, private or 
foreign: Provided, That revenues and other moneys received by or for the 
account of the Department of Energy or otherwise generated by sale of 
products in connection with projects of the Department appropriated 
under this Act may be retained by the Secretary of Energy, to be 
available until expended, and used only for plant construction, 
operation, costs, and payments to cost-sharing entities as provided in 
appropriate cost-sharing contracts or agreements: Provided further, That 
the remainder of revenues after the making of such payments shall be 
covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, 
That any contract, agreement, or provision thereof entered into by the 
Secretary pursuant to this authority shall not be executed prior to the 
expiration of 30 calendar days (not including any day in which either 
House of Congress is not in session because of adjournment of more than 
three calendar days to a day certain) from the receipt by the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives and the President

[[Page 114 STAT. 978]]

of the Senate of a full comprehensive report on such project, including 
the facts and circumstances relied upon in support of the proposed 
project.
    No funds provided in this Act may be expended by the Department of 
Energy to prepare, issue, or process procurement documents for programs 
or projects for which appropriations have not been made.
    In addition to other authorities set forth in this Act, the 
Secretary may accept fees and contributions from public and private 
sources, to be deposited in a contributed funds account, and prosecute 
projects using such fees and contributions in cooperation with other 
Federal, State or private agencies or concerns.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                          Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination Act, the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
with respect to the Indian Health Service, $2,240,658,000, together with 
payments received during the fiscal year pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 238(b) 
for services furnished by the Indian Health Service: Provided, That 
funds made available to tribes and tribal organizations through 
contracts, grant agreements, or any other agreements or compacts 
authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of 
the grant or contract award and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
further, That $15,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for the 
Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund: Provided further, That 
$431,756,000 for contract medical care shall remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002: Provided further, That of the funds 
provided, up to $22,000,000 shall be used to carry out the loan 
repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act: Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may 
be used for one-year contracts and grants which are to be performed in 
two fiscal years, so long as the total obligation is recorded in the 
year for which the funds are appropriated: Provided further, That the 
amounts collected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under 
the authority of title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall remain available until expended for the purpose of achieving 
compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements of titles 
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act (exclusive of planning, design, 
or construction of new facilities): Provided further, That funding 
contained herein, and in any earlier appropriations Acts for scholarship 
programs under the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) 
shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2002: Provided 
further, That amounts received by tribes and tribal organizations under 
title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall be reported and 
accounted for and available to the receiving tribes and tribal 
organizations until expended: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, of the amounts provided herein, not to 
exceed $248,781,000 shall

[[Page 114 STAT. 979]]

be for payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract or grant 
support costs associated with contracts, grants, self-governance 
compacts or annual funding agreements between the Indian Health Service 
and a tribe or tribal organization pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination Act of 1975, as amended, prior to or during fiscal year 
2001, of which not to exceed $10,000,000 may be used for such costs 
associated with new and expanded contracts, grants, self-governance 
compacts or annual funding agreements: Provided further, That funds 
available for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund may be used, as 
needed, to carry out activities typically funded under the Indian Health 
Facilities account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment of 
health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the Act 
of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination Act, 
and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses necessary 
to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities support 
activities of the Indian Health Service, $363,904,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction or renovation of health facilities for the benefit of an 
Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land for sites to 
construct, improve, or enlarge health or related facilities: Provided 
further, That from the funds appropriated herein, $5,000,000 shall be 
designated by the Indian Health Service as a contribution to the Yukon-
Kuskokwim Health Corporation (YKHC) to start a priority project for the 
acquisition of land, planning, design and construction of 79 staff 
quarters at Bethel, Alaska, subject to a negotiated project agreement 
between the YKHC and the Indian Health Service: Provided further, That 
this project shall not be subject to the construction provisions of the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act and shall be 
removed from the Indian Health Service priority list upon completion: 
Provided further, That the Federal Government shall not be liable for 
any property damages or other construction claims that may arise from 
YKHC undertaking this project: Provided further, That the land shall be 
owned or leased by the YKHC and title to quarters shall remain vested 
with the YKHC: Provided further, That notwithstanding any provision of 
law governing Federal construction, $2,240,000 of the funds provided 
herein shall be provided to the Hopi Tribe to reduce the debt incurred 
by the Tribe in providing staff quarters to meet the housing needs 
associated with the new Hopi Health Center: Provided further, That 
$5,000,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose of 
funding joint venture health care facility projects authorized under the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended: Provided further, That 
priority, by rank order, shall be given to tribes with outpatient 
projects on the existing Indian Health Services priority list that have 
Service-approved planning documents, and can demonstrate by March 1, 
2001, the financial capability necessary to provide an appropriate 
facility: Provided further, That

[[Page 114 STAT. 980]]

joint venture funds unallocated after March 1, 2001, shall be made 
available for joint venture projects on a competitive basis giving 
priority to tribes that currently have no existing Federally-owned 
health care facility, have planning documents meeting Indian Health 
Service requirements prepared for approval by the Service and can 
demonstrate the financial capability needed to provide an appropriate 
facility: Provided further, That the Indian Health Service shall request 
additional staffing, operation and maintenance funds for these 
facilities in future budget requests: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 shall be used by the Indian Health Service to purchase 
TRANSAM equipment from the Department of Defense for distribution to the 
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $500,000 shall be used by the Indian Health Service to obtain 
ambulances for the Indian Health Service and tribal facilities in 
conjunction with an existing interagency agreement between the Indian 
Health Service and the General Services Administration: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $500,000 shall be placed in a Demolition 
Fund, available until expended, to be used by the Indian Health Service 
for demolition of Federal buildings: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the provisions of title III, section 306, of the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act (Public Law 94-437, as amended), 
construction contracts authorized under title I of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975, as amended, may be 
used rather than grants to fund small ambulatory facility construction 
projects: Provided further, That if a contract is used, the IHS is 
authorized to improve municipal, private, or tribal lands, and that at 
no time, during construction or after completion of the project will the 
Federal Government have any rights or title to any real or personal 
property acquired as a part of the contract.

            administrative provisions, indian health service

    Appropriations in this Act to the Indian Health Service shall be 
available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates not 
to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable for 
senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and for uniforms or allowances therefore as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for expenses of attendance at 
meetings which are concerned with the functions or activities for which 
the appropriation is made or which will contribute to improved conduct, 
supervision, or management of those functions or activities: Provided, 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be extended health care at all 
tribally administered or Indian Health Service facilities, subject to 
charges, and the proceeds along with funds recovered under the Federal 
Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653) shall be credited to the 
account of the facility providing the service and shall be available 
without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other law or regulation, funds transferred from the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development to the Indian Health Service shall be 
administered under Public Law 86-121 (the Indian Sanitation Facilities 
Act) and Public Law

[[Page 114 STAT. 981]]

93-638, as amended: Provided further, That funds appropriated to the 
Indian Health Service in this Act, except those used for administrative 
and program direction purposes, shall not be subject to limitations 
directed at curtailing Federal travel and transportation: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
previously or herein made available to a tribe or tribal organization 
through a contract, grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title 
III of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 
1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-
determination contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement 
under title III of such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the 
tribe or tribal organization without fiscal year limitation: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available to the Indian Health 
Service in this Act shall be used to implement the final rule published 
in the Federal Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of 
Health and Human Services, relating to the eligibility for the health 
care services of the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health 
Service has submitted a budget request reflecting the increased costs 
associated with the proposed final rule, and such request has been 
included in an appropriations Act and enacted into law: Provided 
further, That funds made available in this Act are to be apportioned to 
the Indian Health Service as appropriated in this Act, and accounted for 
in the appropriation structure set forth in this Act: Provided further, 
That with respect to functions transferred by the Indian Health Service 
to tribes or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is 
authorized to provide goods and services to those entities, on a 
reimbursable basis, including payment in advance with subsequent 
adjustment, and the reimbursements received therefrom, along with the 
funds received from those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-
Determination Act, may be credited to the same or subsequent 
appropriation account which provided the funding, said amounts to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That reimbursements for 
training, technical assistance, or services provided by the Indian 
Health Service will contain total costs, including direct, 
administrative, and overhead associated with the provision of goods, 
services, or technical assistance: Provided further, That the 
appropriation structure for the Indian Health Service may not be altered 
without advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

               Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $15,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible individuals 
and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned lands 
residents, those in significantly substandard housing, and all others 
certified as eligible and not included in the preceding categories: 
Provided further, That none of the funds contained in this or any other 
Act may be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation to 
evict any single Navajo or Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985, 
was physically

[[Page 114 STAT. 982]]

domiciled on the lands partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or 
replacement home is provided for such household: Provided further, That 
no relocatee will be provided with more than one new or replacement 
home: Provided further, That the Office shall relocate any certified 
eligible relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite 
on the Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the 
Navajo reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-
10.

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                               Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498, as amended (20 U.S.C. 56 part A), $4,125,000.

                         Smithsonian Institution

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as authorized 
by law, including research in the fields of art, science, and history; 
development, preservation, and documentation of the National 
Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease (for terms not to 
exceed 30 years), and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; up to five replacement passenger vehicles; purchase, 
rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for employees, $387,755,000, of 
which not to exceed $47,088,000 for the instrumentation program, 
collections acquisition, Museum Support Center equipment and move, 
exhibition reinstallation, the National Museum of the American Indian, 
the repatriation of skeletal remains program, research equipment, 
information management, and Latino programming shall remain available 
until expended, and including such funds as may be necessary to support 
American overseas research centers and a total of $125,000 for the 
Council of American Overseas Research Centers: Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations: Provided further, That the Smithsonian 
Institution may expend Federal appropriations designated in this Act for 
lease or rent payments for long term and swing space, as rent payable to 
the Smithsonian Institution, and such rent payments may be deposited 
into the general trust funds of the Institution to the extent that 
federally supported activities are housed in the 900 H Street, N.W. 
building in the District of Columbia: Provided further, That this use of 
Federal appropriations shall not be construed as debt service, a Federal 
guarantee of, a transfer of risk to, or an obligation of, the Federal 
Government: Provided further, That no appropriated funds may be used to 
service debt which is incurred to finance the costs of acquiring the 900 
H Street building or of planning, designing, and constructing 
improvements to such building.

[[Page 114 STAT. 983]]

            repair, restoration and alteration of facilities

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by contract 
or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 
(63 Stat. 623), including not to exceed $10,000 for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $57,600,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $7,600,000 is provided for repair, rehabilitation and 
alteration of facilities at the National Zoological Park: Provided, That 
contracts awarded for environmental systems, protection systems, and 
repair or restoration of facilities of the Smithsonian Institution may 
be negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for construction, $9,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

           administrative provisions, smithsonian institution

    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used to initiate 
the design for any proposed expansion of current space or new facility 
without consultation with the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees.
    The Smithsonian Institution shall not use Federal funds in excess of 
the amount specified in Public Law 101-185 for the construction of the 
National Museum of the American Indian.
    None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used for the Holt 
House located at the National Zoological Park in Washington, D.C., 
unless identified as repairs to minimize water damage, monitor structure 
movement, or provide interim structural support.

                         National Gallery of Art

                          salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services for 
protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, alteration, 
improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and grounds; and 
purchase of services for restoration and repair of works of art for the 
National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without advertising, with 
individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or prices and under 
such terms and conditions as the Gallery

[[Page 114 STAT. 984]]

may deem proper, $64,781,000, of which not to exceed $3,026,000 for the 
special exhibition program shall remain available until expended.

             repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, as authorized, $10,871,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That contracts awarded for 
environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be negotiated 
with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of contractor 
qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $14,000,000.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts, $20,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the Woodrow 
Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of passenger 
vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,310,000.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                     National Endowment for the Arts

                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $98,000,000 shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of 
projects and productions in the arts through assistance to organizations 
and individuals pursuant to sections 5(c) and 5(g) of the Act, for 
program support, and for administering the functions of the Act, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds previously 
appropriated to the National Endowment for the Arts ``Matching Grants'' 
account may be transferred to and merged with this account.

[[Page 114 STAT. 985]]

                  National Endowment for the Humanities

                        grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, $104,604,000, shall be 
available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act, and 
for administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                             matching grants

    To carry out the provisions of section 10(a)(2) of the National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 
$15,656,000, to remain available until expended, of which $11,656,000 
shall be available to the National Endowment for the Humanities for the 
purposes of section 7(h): Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal to the 
total amounts of gifts, bequests, and devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the Endowment under 
the provisions of subsections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the 
current and preceding fiscal years for which equal amounts have not 
previously been appropriated.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

                        office of museum services

                        grants and administration

    For carrying out subtitle C of the Museum and Library Services Act 
of 1996, as amended, $24,907,000, to remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses.

                       Challenge America Arts Fund

                        challenge america grants

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 89-209, as 
amended, $7,000,000 for support for arts education and public outreach 
activities to be administered by the National Endowment for the Arts, to 
remain available until expended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 986]]

                         Commission of Fine Arts

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses made necessary by the Act establishing a Commission of 
Fine Arts (40 U.S.C. 104), $1,078,000: Provided, That the Commission is 
authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its publications, 
and such fees shall be credited to this account as an offsetting 
collection, to remain available until expended without further 
appropriation.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 U.S.C. 
956(a)), as amended, $7,000,000.

                Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665, as amended), $3,189,000: Provided, That 
none of these funds shall be available for compensation of level V of 
the Executive Schedule or higher positions.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by the National Capital 
Planning Act of 1952 (40 U.S.C. 71-71i), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,500,000: Provided, That all appointed 
members of the Commission will be compensated at a rate not to exceed 
the daily equivalent of the annual rate of pay for positions at level IV 
of the Executive Schedule for each day such member is engaged in the 
actual performance of duties.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Council

                       holocaust memorial council

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Council, as authorized by 
Public Law 96-388 (36 U.S.C. 1401), as amended, $34,439,000, of which 
$1,900,000 for the museum's repair and rehabilitation program and 
$1,264,000 for the museum's exhibitions program shall remain available 
until expended.

                             Presidio Trust

                           presidio trust fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I of the Omnibus Parks and 
Public Lands Management Act of 1996, $23,400,000 shall be available to 
the Presidio Trust, to remain available until expended. The Trust is 
authorized to issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury 
pursuant to section 104(d)(3) of the Act, in an amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000.

[[Page 114 STAT. 987]]

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation under this Act shall be 
available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture for the leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive 
bidding on publicly owned lands within the boundaries of the Shawnee 
National Forest, Illinois: Provided, That nothing herein is intended to 
inhibit or otherwise affect the sale, lease, or right to access to 
minerals owned by private individuals.
    Sec. 303. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition 
to any legislative proposal on which congressional action is not 
complete.
    Sec. 304. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds provided in this Act to any department 
or agency shall be obligated or expended to provide a personal cook, 
chauffeur, or other personal servants to any officer or employee of such 
department or agency except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 306. No assessments may be levied against any program, budget 
activity, subactivity, or project funded by this Act unless advance 
notice of such assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such committees.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds in this Act may be used to plan, 
prepare, or offer for sale timber from trees classified as giant sequoia 
(Sequoiadendron giganteum) which are located on National Forest System 
or Bureau of Land Management lands in a manner different than such sales 
were conducted in fiscal year 2000.
    Sec. 308. None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended by the National Park Service to enter into or 
implement a concession contract which permits or requires the removal of 
the underground lunchroom at the Carlsbad Caverns National Park.
    Sec. 309. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps program, unless the relevant 
agencies of the Department of the Interior and/or Agriculture follow 
appropriate reprogramming guidelines: Provided, That if no funds are 
provided for the AmeriCorps program by the Departments of Veterans 
Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001, then none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used for the AmeriCorps 
programs.
    Sec. 310. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used: 
(1) to demolish the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis 
Island; or (2) to prevent pedestrian use of such bridge, when it is made 
known to the Federal official having

[[Page 114 STAT. 988]]

authority to obligate or expend such funds that such pedestrian use is 
consistent with generally accepted safety standards.
    Sec. 311. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply if 
the Secretary of the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned: 
(1) a patent application was filed with the Secretary on or before 
September 30, 1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 
2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or 
lode claims and sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case 
may be, were fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2001, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on 
actions taken by the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to 
section 314(c) of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Bureau of 
Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of the mining claims or 
mill sites contained in a patent application as set forth in subsection 
(b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have the sole responsibility to 
choose and pay the third-party contractor in accordance with the 
standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land Management in the 
retention of third-party contractors.
    Sec. 312. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
appropriated to or earmarked in committee reports for the Bureau of 
Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service by Public Laws 103-138, 
103-332, 104-134, 104-208, 105-83, 105-277, and 106-113 for payments to 
tribes and tribal organizations for contract support costs associated 
with self-determination or self-governance contracts, grants, compacts, 
or annual funding agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the 
Indian Health Service as funded by such Acts, are the total amounts 
available for fiscal years 1994 through 2000 for such purposes, except 
that, for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, tribes and tribal organizations 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet indirect costs of 
ongoing contracts, grants, self-governance compacts or annual funding 
agreements.
    Sec. 313. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 2001 the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior are authorized 
to limit competition for watershed restoration project contracts as part 
of the ``Jobs in the Woods'' component of the President's Forest Plan 
for the Pacific Northwest or the Jobs in the Woods Program established 
in Region 10 of the Forest Service to individuals and entities in 
historically timber-dependent areas in the States of Washington, Oregon, 
northern California and Alaska that

[[Page 114 STAT. 989]]

have been affected by reduced timber harvesting on Federal lands. The 
Secretaries shall consider the benefits to the local economy in 
evaluating bids and designing procurements which create economic 
opportunities for local contractors.
    Sec. 314. None of the funds collected under the Recreational Fee 
Demonstration program may be used to plan, design, or construct a 
visitor center or any other permanent structure without prior approval 
of the House and the Senate Committees on Appropriations if the 
estimated total cost of the facility exceeds $500,000.
    Sec. 315. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>>  All interests created under 
leases, concessions, permits and other agreements associated with the 
properties administered by the Presidio Trust, hereafter shall be exempt 
from all taxes and special assessments of every kind by the State of 
California and its political subdivisions.

    Sec. 316. <<NOTE: 16 USC 459j-4 note.>>  None of the funds made 
available in this or any other Act for any fiscal year may be used to 
designate, or to post any sign designating, any portion of Canaveral 
National Seashore in Brevard County, Florida, as a clothing-optional 
area or as an area in which public nudity is permitted, if such 
designation would be contrary to county ordinance.

    Sec. 317. Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or American 
        Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made to 
        a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used to 
        make a grant to any other organization or individual to conduct 
        activity independent of the direct grant recipient. Nothing in 
        this subsection shall prohibit payments made in exchange for 
        goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs and/or projects.

    Sec. 318. The National Endowment for the Arts and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities are authorized to solicit, accept, receive, 
and invest in the name of the United States, gifts, bequests, or devises 
of money and other property or services and to use such in furtherance 
of the functions of the National Endowment for the Arts and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities. Any proceeds from such gifts, bequests, or 
devises, after acceptance by the National Endowment for the Arts or the 
National Endowment for the Humanities, shall be paid by the donor or the 
representative of the donor to the Chairman. The Chairman shall enter 
the proceeds in a special interest-bearing account to the credit of the 
appropriate endowment for the purposes specified in each case.
    Sec. 319. (a) In providing services or awarding financial assistance 
under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 
from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:

[[Page 114 STAT. 990]]

            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income below 
        the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.

    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Chairperson shall report to the 
        Congress annually and by State, on grants awarded by the 
        Chairperson in each grant category under section 5 of such Act; 
        and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

    Sec. 320. <<NOTE: 16 USC 500 note.>>  Advisory Committee on Forest 
Counties Payments.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the Forest Counties Payments Committee established by this 
        section.
            (2) Committees of jurisdiction.--The term ``committees of 
        jurisdiction'' means the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee 
        on Resources, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
        and Forestry, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
            (3) Eligible county.--The term ``eligible county'' means a 
        county that, for one or more of the fiscal years 1986 through 
        1999, received--
                    (A) a payment under title II of the Act of August 
                28, 1937 (chapter 876; 50 Stat. 875; 43 U.S.C. 1181f), 
                or the Act of May 24, 1939 (chapter 144; 53 Stat. 753; 
                43 U.S.C. 1181f-1 et seq.); or
                    (B) a portion of an eligible State's payment, as 
                described in paragraph (4).
            (4) Eligible state.--The term ``eligible State'' means a 
        State that, for one or more of the fiscal years 1986 through

[[Page 114 STAT. 991]]

        1999, received a payment under the sixth paragraph under the 
        heading of ``FOREST SERVICE'' in the Act of May 23, 1908 (35 
        Stat. 260; 16 U.S.C. 500), or section 13 of the Act of March 1, 
        1911 (36 Stat. 963; 16 U.S.C. 500).
            (5) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means the 
        following:
                    (A) Lands within the National Forest System, as 
                defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland 
                Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
                1609(a)), exclusive of the National Grasslands and land 
                utilization projects designated as National Grasslands 
                administered pursuant to the Act of July 22, 1937 (7 
                U.S.C. 1010-1012).
                    (B) Such portions of the Oregon and California 
                Railroad grant lands revested in the United States by 
                the Act of June 9, 1916 (chapter 137; 39 Stat. 218), and 
                the Coos Bay Wagon Road grant lands reconveyed to the 
                United States by the Act of February 26, 1919 (chapter 
                47; 40 Stat. 1179), as are or may hereafter come under 
                the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, which 
                have heretofore or may hereafter be classified as 
                timberlands, and power-site lands valuable for timber, 
                that shall be managed, except as provided in the former 
                section 3 of the Act of August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 875; 
                43 U.S.C. 1181c), for permanent forest production.
            (6) Sustainable forestry.--The term ``sustainable forestry'' 
        means the practice of meeting the forest resource needs and 
        values of the present without compromising the similar 
        capability of future generations.

    (b) Establishment of Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment required.-- <<NOTE: Forest Counties 
        Payments Committee.>> There is hereby established an advisory 
        committee, to be known as the Forest Counties Payments 
        Committee, to develop recommendations, consistent with 
        sustainable forestry, regarding methods to ensure that States 
        and counties in which Federal lands are situated receive 
        adequate Federal payments to be used for the benefit of public 
        education and other public purposes.
            (2) Members.--The Advisory Committee shall be composed of 
        the following members:
                    (A) The Chief of the Forest Service, or a designee 
                of the Chief who has significant expertise in 
                sustainable forestry.
                    (B) The Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
                or a designee of the Director who has significant 
                expertise in sustainable forestry.
                    (C) The Director of the Office of Management and 
                Budget, or the Director's designee.
                    (D) Two members who are elected members of the 
                governing branches of eligible counties; one such member 
                to be appointed by the President pro tempore of the 
                Senate (in consultation with the chairmen and ranking 
                members of the committees of jurisdiction of the Senate) 
                and one such member to be appointed by the Speaker of 
                the House of Representatives (in consultation with the 
                chairmen and ranking members of the committees of 
                jurisdiction of the House of Representatives) within 60 
                days of the date of the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 992]]

                    (E) Two members who are elected members of school 
                boards for, superintendents from, or teachers employed 
                by, school districts in eligible counties; one such 
                member to be appointed by the President pro tempore of 
                the Senate (in consultation with the chairmen and 
                ranking members of the committees of jurisdiction of the 
                Senate) and one such member to be appointed by the 
                Speaker of the House of Representatives (in consultation 
                with the chairmen and ranking members of the committees 
                of jurisdiction of the House of Representatives) within 
                60 days of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Geographic representation.--In making appointments under 
        subparagraphs (D) and (E) of paragraph (2), the President pro 
        tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives shall seek to ensure that the Advisory Committee 
        members are selected from geographically diverse locations.
            (4) Organization of advisory committee.--
                    (A) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Advisory 
                Committee shall be selected from among the members 
                appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (D) and (E) of 
                paragraph (2).
                    (B) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the membership of the 
                Advisory Committee shall be filled in the same manner as 
                required by paragraph (2). A vacancy shall not impair 
                the authority of the remaining members to perform the 
                functions of the Advisory Committee under this section.
                    (C) Compensation.--The members of the Advisory 
                Committee who are not officers or employees of the 
                United States, while attending meetings or other events 
                held by the Advisory Committee or at which the members 
                serve as representatives of the Advisory Committee or 
                while otherwise serving at the request of the 
                Chairperson of the Advisory Committee, shall each be 
                entitled to receive compensation at a rate not in excess 
                of the maximum rate of pay for grade GS-15, as provided 
                in the General Schedule, including traveltime, and while 
                away from their homes or regular places of business, 
                shall each be reimbursed for travel expenses, including 
                per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by section 
                5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons in 
                Government service employed intermittently.
            (5) Staff and rules.--
                    (A) Executive director.--The Advisory Committee 
                shall have an Executive Director, who shall be appointed 
                by the Advisory Committee and serve at the pleasure of 
                the Advisory Committee. The Executive Director shall 
                report to the Advisory Committee and assume such duties 
                as the Advisory Committee may assign. The Executive 
                Director shall be paid at a rate not in excess of the 
                maximum rate of pay for grade GS-15, as provided in the 
                General Schedule.
                    (B) Other staff.--In addition to authority to 
                appoint personnel subject to the provisions of title 5, 
                United States Code, governing appointments to the 
                competitive service, and to pay such personnel in 
                accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53 of such

[[Page 114 STAT. 993]]

                title relating to classification and General Schedule 
                pay rates, the Advisory Committee shall have authority 
                to enter into contracts with private or public 
                organizations which may furnish the Advisory Committee 
                with such administrative and technical personnel as may 
                be necessary to carry out the functions of the Advisory 
                Committee under this section. To the extent practicable, 
                such administrative and technical personnel, and other 
                necessary support services, shall be provided for the 
                Advisory Committee by the Chief of the Forest Service 
                and the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
                    (C) Committee rules.--The Advisory Committee may 
                establish such procedural and administrative rules as 
                are necessary for the performance of its functions under 
                this section.
            (6) Federal agency cooperation.--The heads of the 
        departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the executive 
        branch of the Federal Government shall cooperate with the 
        Advisory Committee in the performance of its functions under 
        this section and should furnish, as practicable, to the Advisory 
        Committee information which the Advisory Committee deems 
        necessary to carry out such functions.

    (c) Functions of Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Development of recommendations.--
                    (A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                develop recommendations for policy or legislative 
                initiatives (or both) regarding alternatives for, or 
                substitutes to, the payments required to be made to 
                eligible States and eligible counties under the 
                provisions of law referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4) 
                of subsection (a) in order to provide a long-term method 
                to generate annual payments to eligible States and 
                eligible counties.
                    (B) Reporting requirements.-- 
                <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 18 months after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Advisory 
                Committee shall submit to the committees of jurisdiction 
                a final report containing the recommendations developed 
                under this subsection. The Advisory Committee shall 
                submit semiannual progress reports on its activities and 
                expenditures to the committees of jurisdiction until the 
                final report has been submitted.
            (2) Guidance for committee.--In developing the 
        recommendations required by paragraph (1), the Advisory 
        Committee shall--
                    (A) evaluate the method by which payments are made 
                to eligible States and eligible counties under the 
                provisions of law referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4) 
                of subsection (a), and related laws, and the use of such 
                payments;
                    (B) consider the impact on eligible States and 
                eligible counties of revenues derived from the historic 
                multiple use of the Federal lands;
                    (C) evaluate the economic, environmental, and social 
                benefits which accrue to counties containing Federal 
                lands, including recreation, natural resources 
                industries, and the value of environmental services that 
                result from Federal lands; and
                    (D) evaluate the expenditures by counties on 
                activities on Federal lands which are Federal 
                responsibilities.

[[Page 114 STAT. 994]]

            (3) Monitoring and related reporting activities.--The 
        Advisory Committee shall monitor the payments made to eligible 
        States and eligible counties under the provisions of law 
        referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a), and 
        related laws, and submit to the committees of jurisdiction an 
        annual report describing the amounts and sources of such 
        payments and containing such comments as the Advisory Committee 
        may have regarding such payments.
            (4) Testimony.--The Advisory Committee shall make itself 
        available for testimony or comments on the reports required to 
        be submitted by the Advisory Committee and on any legislation or 
        regulations to implement any recommendations made in such 
        reports in any congressional hearings or any rulemaking or other 
        administrative decision process.

    (d) Federal Advisory Committee Act Requirements.--The provisions of 
the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the 
Advisory Committee.
    (e) Termination of Advisory Committee.--The Advisory Committee shall 
terminate three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Funding Source.--At the request of the Executive Director of the 
Advisory Committee, the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide funds 
from any account available to the Secretary, not to exceed $200,000 in 
fiscal year 2001, for the work of the Advisory Committee necessary to 
meet the requirements of this section.
    Sec. 321. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be expended or obligated to complete and issue the 5-year program under 
the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act.
    Sec. 322. None of the funds in this Act may be used to support 
Government-wide administrative functions unless such functions are 
justified in the budget process and funding is approved by the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 323. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds in this Act may be used for GSA Telecommunication Centers or the 
President's Council on Sustainable Development.
    Sec. 324. None of the funds in this Act may be used for planning, 
design or construction of improvements to Pennsylvania Avenue in front 
of the White House without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 325. Amounts deposited during fiscal year 2000 in the roads and 
trails fund provided for in the fourteenth paragraph under the heading 
``FOREST SERVICE'' of the Act of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 843; 16 U.S.C. 
501), shall be used by the Secretary of Agriculture, without regard to 
the State in which the amounts were derived, to repair or reconstruct 
roads, bridges, and trails on National Forest System lands or to carry 
out and administer projects to improve forest health conditions, which 
may include the repair or reconstruction of roads, bridges, and trails 
on National Forest System lands in the wildland-community interface 
where there is an abnormally high risk of fire. The projects shall 
emphasize reducing risks to human safety and public health and property 
and enhancing ecological functions, long-term forest productivity, and 
biological integrity. The Secretary shall commence the projects during 
fiscal year 2001, but the projects may be completed in a subsequent 
fiscal year. Funds shall not be expended under this section to replace 
funds which would otherwise appropriately be

[[Page 114 STAT. 995]]

expended from the timber salvage sale fund. Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to exempt any project from any environmental law.
    Sec. 326. None of the funds provided in this or previous 
appropriations Acts for the agencies funded by this Act or provided from 
any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be transferred to and used to fund personnel, training, or other 
administrative activities of the Council on Environmental Quality or 
other offices in the Executive Office of the President for purposes 
related to the American Heritage Rivers program.
    Sec. 327. Other than in emergency situations, none of the funds in 
this Act may be used to operate telephone answering machines during core 
business hours unless such answering machines include an option that 
enables callers to reach promptly an individual on-duty with the agency 
being contacted.
    Sec. 328. No timber sale in Region 10 shall be advertised if the 
indicated rate is deficit when appraised under the transaction evidence 
appraisal system using domestic Alaska values for western red cedar: 
Provided, That sales which are deficit when appraised under the 
transaction evidence appraisal system using domestic Alaska values for 
western red cedar may be advertised upon receipt of a written request by 
a prospective, informed bidder, who has the opportunity to review the 
Forest Service's cruise and harvest cost estimate for that timber. 
Program accomplishments shall be based on volume sold. Should Region 10 
sell, in fiscal year 2001, the annual average portion of the decadal 
allowable sale quantity called for in the current Tongass Land 
Management Plan in sales which are not deficit when appraised under the 
transaction evidence appraisal system using domestic Alaska values for 
western red cedar, all of the western red cedar timber from those sales 
which is surplus to the needs of domestic processors in Alaska, shall be 
made available to domestic processors in the contiguous 48 United States 
at prevailing domestic prices. Should Region 10 sell, in fiscal year 
2001, less than the annual average portion of the decadal allowable sale 
quantity called for in the current Tongass Land Management Plan in sales 
which are not deficit when appraised under the transaction evidence 
appraisal system using domestic Alaska values for western red cedar, the 
volume of western red cedar timber available to domestic processors at 
prevailing domestic prices in the contiguous 48 United States shall be 
that volume: (i) which is surplus to the needs of domestic processors in 
Alaska; and (ii) is that percent of the surplus western red cedar volume 
determined by calculating the ratio of the total timber volume which has 
been sold on the Tongass to the annual average portion of the decadal 
allowable sale quantity called for in the current Tongass Land 
Management Plan. The percentage shall be calculated by Region 10 on a 
rolling basis as each sale is sold (for purposes of this amendment, a 
``rolling basis'' shall mean that the determination of how much western 
red cedar is eligible for sale to various markets shall be made at the 
time each sale is awarded). Western red cedar shall be deemed ``surplus 
to the needs of domestic processors in Alaska'' when the timber sale 
holder has presented to the Forest Service documentation of the 
inability to sell western red cedar logs from a given sale to domestic 
Alaska processors at price equal to or greater than the log selling 
value stated in the contract. All additional western red cedar volume

[[Page 114 STAT. 996]]

not sold to Alaska or contiguous 48 United States domestic processors 
may be exported to foreign markets at the election of the timber sale 
holder. All Alaska yellow cedar may be sold at prevailing export prices 
at the election of the timber sale holder.
    Sec. 329. None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation for implementation, of the 
Kyoto Protocol which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in Kyoto, Japan 
at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, which has not been submitted to the Senate 
for advice and consent to ratification pursuant to article II, section 
2, clause 2, of the United States Constitution, and which has not 
entered into force pursuant to article 25 of the Protocol.
    Sec. 330. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1701 note.>>  In fiscal years 2001 through 
2005, the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture may pilot test 
agency-wide joint permitting and leasing programs, subject to annual 
review of Congress, and promulgate special rules as needed to test the 
feasibility of issuing unified permits, applications, and leases. The 
Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture may make reciprocal 
delegations of their respective authorities, duties and responsibilities 
in support of the ``Service First'' initiative agency-wide to promote 
customer service and efficiency. Nothing herein shall alter, expand or 
limit the applicability of any public law or regulation to lands 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service.

    Sec. 331. Federal and State Cooperative Watershed Restoration and 
Protection in Colorado. (a) Use of Colorado State Forest Service.--Until 
September 30, 2004, the Secretary of Agriculture, via cooperative 
agreement or contract (including sole source contract) as appropriate, 
may permit the Colorado State Forest Service to perform watershed 
restoration and protection services on National Forest System lands in 
the State of Colorado when similar and complementary watershed 
restoration and protection services are being performed by the State 
Forest Service on adjacent State or private lands. The types of services 
that may be extended to National Forest System lands include treatment 
of insect infected trees, reduction of hazardous fuels, and other 
activities to restore or improve watersheds or fish and wildlife habitat 
across ownership boundaries.
    (b) State as Agent.--Except as provided in subsection (c), a 
cooperative agreement or contract under subsection (a) may authorize the 
State Forester of Colorado to serve as the agent for the Forest Service 
in providing all services necessary to facilitate the performance of 
watershed restoration and protection services under subsection (a). The 
services to be performed by the Colorado State Forest Service may be 
conducted with subcontracts utilizing State contract procedures. 
Subsections (d) and (g) of section 14 of the National Forest Management 
Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a) shall not apply to services performed under 
a cooperative agreement or contract under subsection (a).
    (c) Retention of NEPA Responsibilities.--With respect to any 
watershed restoration and protection services on National Forest System 
lands proposed for performance by the Colorado State Forest Service 
under subsection (a), any decision required to be made under the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) may 
not be delegated to the State Forester

[[Page 114 STAT. 997]]

of Colorado or any other officer or employee of the Colorado State 
Forest Service.
    Sec. 332. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to issue a record of 
decision implementing the Interior Columbia Basin Ecosystem Management 
Project until the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior submit to 
Congress a report evaluating, for the area to be covered by the project, 
both the effect of the year 2000 wildfires and the President's 
initiative for managing the impact of wildfires on communities and the 
environment.

    Sec. 333. The Forest Service, in consultation with the Department of 
Labor, shall review Forest Service campground concessions policy to 
determine if modifications can be made to Forest Service contracts for 
campgrounds so that such concessions fall within the regulatory 
exemption of 29 CFR 4.122(b). The Forest Service shall offer in fiscal 
year 2001 such concession prospectuses under the regulatory exemption, 
except that, any prospectus that does not meet the requirements of the 
regulatory exemption shall be offered as a service contract in 
accordance with the requirements of 41 U.S.C. 351-358.
    Sec. 334. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460l-6a note.>>  A project undertaken by 
the Forest Service under the Recreation Fee Demonstration Program as 
authorized by section 315 of the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1996, as amended, shall not 
result in--
            (1) displacement of the holder of an authorization to 
        provide commercial recreation services on Federal lands. Prior 
        to initiating any project, the Secretary shall consult with 
        potentially affected holders to determine what impacts the 
        project may have on the holders. Any modifications to the 
        authorization shall be made within the terms and conditions of 
        the authorization and authorities of the impacted agency.
            (2) the return of a commercial recreation service to the 
        Secretary for operation when such services have been provided in 
        the past by a private sector provider, except when--
                    (A) the private sector provider fails to bid on such 
                opportunities;
                    (B) the private sector provider terminates its 
                relationship with the agency; or
                    (C) the agency revokes the permit for non-compliance 
                with the terms and conditions of the authorization.

In such cases, the agency may use the Recreation Fee Demonstration 
Program to provide for operations until a subsequent operator can be 
found through the offering of a new prospectus.
    Sec. 335. Section 801 of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act 
(42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)(D)(iii)) is amended by striking ``$750,000'' and 
inserting ``$10,000,000''.
    Sec. 336. In section 315(f) of title III of section 101(c) of Public 
Law 104-134 (16 U.S.C. 460l-6a note), as amended, strike ``September 30, 
2001'' and insert ``September 30, 2002'', and strike ``September 30, 
2004'' and insert ``September 30, 2005''.
    Sec. 337. None of the funds in this Act may be used by the Secretary 
of the Interior to issue a prospecting permit for hardrock mineral 
exploration on Mark Twain National Forest land in the Current River/
Jack's Fork River--Eleven Point Watershed (not including Mark Twain 
National Forest land in Townships

[[Page 114 STAT. 998]]

31N and 32N, Range 2 and Range 3 West, on which mining activities are 
taking place as of the date of the enactment of this Act): Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Interior to segregate or withdraw land in the Mark Twain National 
Forest, Missouri under section 204 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1714).
    Sec. 338. <<NOTE: 16 USC 2104 note.>>  The authority to enter into 
stewardship and end result contracts provided to the Forest Service in 
accordance with section 347 of title III of section 101(e) of division A 
of Public Law 105-825 is hereby expanded to authorize the Forest Service 
to enter into an additional 28 contracts subject to the same terms and 
conditions as provided in that section: Provided, That of the additional 
contracts authorized by this section at least 9 shall be allocated to 
Region 1 and at least 3 to Region 6.

    Sec. 339. Any regulations or policies promulgated or adopted by the 
Departments of Agriculture or the Interior regarding recovery of costs 
for processing authorizations to occupy and use Federal lands under 
their control shall adhere to and incorporate the following principle 
arising from Office of Management and Budget Circular, A-25; no charge 
should be made for a service when the identification of the specific 
beneficiary is obscure, and the service can be considered primarily as 
benefiting broadly the general public.
    Sec. 340. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture to 
implement a final rule for estimating fair market value land use rental 
fees for fiberoptic communications rights-of-way on Federal lands that 
amends or replaces the linear right-of-way rental fee schedule published 
on July 8, 1987 (43 CFR 2803.1-2(c)(1)(I)). In determining rental fees 
for fiberoptic rights-of-way, the Secretaries shall use the rates 
contained in the linear right-of-way rental fee schedules in place on 
May 1, 2000.
    Sec. 341. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal 
year 2001, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to limit 
competition for fire and fuel treatment and watershed restoration 
contracts in the Giant Sequoia National Monument and the Sequoia 
National Forest. Preference for employment shall be given to dislocated 
and displaced workers in Tulare, Kern and Fresno Counties, California, 
for work associated with the establishment of the Giant Sequoia National 
Monument.
    Sec. 344. From funds previously appropriated under the heading 
``DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, fossil energy research and development'', 
$4,000,000 is available for computational services at the National 
Energy Technology Laboratory.
    Sec. 345. Backcountry Landing Strip Access. (a) In General.--Funds 
made available by this Act shall not be used to permanently close 
aircraft landing strips, officially recognized by State or Federal 
aviation officials, without public notice, consultation with cognizant 
State and Federal aviation officials and the consent of the Federal 
Aviation Administration.
    (b) Aircraft Landing Strips.--An aircraft landing strip referred to 
in subsection (a) is a landing strip on Federal land administered by the 
Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture that is 
commonly known, and is consistently used for aircraft landing and 
departure activities.

[[Page 114 STAT. 999]]

    (c) Permanent Closure.--For the purposes of subsection (a), an 
aircraft landing strip shall be considered to be closed permanently if 
the intended duration of the closure is more than 180 days in any 
calendar year.
    Sec. 346. Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area. (a) Land 
Acquisition.--Section 9 of the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area 
Act (16 U.S.C. 544g) is amended:
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:

    ``(e) Appraisals.--
            ``(1) Definition of landowner.--In this subsection, the term 
        `landowner' means the owner of legal or equitable title as of 
        September 1, 2000.
            ``(2) Appraisal standards.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (3), land acquired or conveyed by purchase or exchange under 
        this section shall be appraised in conformity with the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions.
            ``(3) Special management areas.--
                    ``(A) Before april 1, 2001.--Land within a special 
                management area for which the landowner, before April 1, 
                2001, makes a written bona fide offer to convey to the 
                Secretary for fair market value shall be appraised--
                          ``(i) without regard to the effect of any 
                      zoning or land use restriction made in response to 
                      this Act; but
                          ``(ii) subject to any other current zoning or 
                      land use restriction imposed by the State or 
                      locality in which the land is located on the date 
                      of the offer.
                    ``(B) On or after april 1, 2001.--Land within a 
                special management area for which the landowner, on or 
                after April 1, 2001, makes a written bona fide offer to 
                convey to the Secretary for fair market value shall be 
                appraised subject to--
                          ``(i) any zoning or land use restriction made 
                      in response to this Act; and
                          ``(ii) any other current zoning or land use 
                      restriction that applies to the land on the date 
                      of the offer.

    ``(f) Authorization for Certain Land Exchanges.--
            ``(1) In general.--To facilitate priority land exchanges 
        through which land within the boundaries of the White Salmon 
        Wild and Scenic River or within the scenic area is conveyed to 
        the United States, the Secretary may accept title to such land 
        as the Secretary determines to be appropriate within the States, 
        regardless of the State in which the land conveyed by the 
        Secretary in exchange is located, in accordance with land 
        exchange authorities available to the Secretary under applicable 
        law.
            ``(2) Special rule for land certain exchanges.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
                    ``(A) any exchange described in paragraph (1) for 
                which an agreement to initiate has been executed as of 
                September 30, 2000, shall continue; and
                    ``(B) any timber stumpage proceeds collected under 
                the exchange shall be retained by the Forest Service to 
                complete the exchange.''.

    (b) Administration of Special Management Areas.--Section 8(o) of the 
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act (16 U.S.C. 544f) is 
amended--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1000]]

            (1) by striking ``Any ordinance'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Any ordinance'';
            (2) in the first sentence, by striking ``the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions (Interagency 
        Land Acquisition Conference, 1973).'' and inserting ``section 
        9(e).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Applicability.--This subsection shall not apply to any 
        land offered to the Secretary for acquisition after March 31, 
        2001.''.

    (c) Publication of Notice.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Not later than November 1, 2000, 
        the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide notice of the 
        provisions contained in the amendments made by subsections (a) 
        and (b) through--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  
                publication of a notice in the Federal Register and in 
                newspapers of general circulation in the counties in the 
                Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area; and
                    (B) posting of a notice in each facility of the 
                United States Postal Service located in those counties.
            (2) If the counties wherein special management areas are 
        located provide the Forest Service administrator of the Columbia 
        River Gorge National Scenic Area lists of the names and 
        addresses of landowners within the special management areas as 
        of September 1, 2000, the Forest Service shall send to such 
        names and addresses by certified first class mail notice of the 
        provisions contained in the amendments made by subsections (a) 
        and (b);
                    (A) The mailing shall occur within twenty working 
                days of the receipt of the list; and
                    (B) The mailing shall constitute constructive notice 
                to landowners, and proof of receipt by the addressee 
                shall not be required.

    (d) Designation of Special Management Areas.--Section 4(b)(2) of the 
Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act (16 U.S.C. 544b(b)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in this section'' and 
        inserting ``by paragraph (1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Modification of boundaries.--The boundaries of the 
        special management areas are modified as depicted on a map dated 
        September 20, 2000, which shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest 
        Service in Washington, District of Columbia, and copies shall be 
        available in the office of the Commission, and the headquarters 
        of the scenic area.''.

    (e) Payments to Local Governments.--Section 14(c)(3) of the Columbia 
River Gorge National Scenic Area Act (16 U.S.C. 544l(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(3) No payment'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(3) Limitation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), no payment'';
            (2) by striking ``fifth'' and inserting ``eighth''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Continuation of certain payments.--For any 
                land or interest in land for which the Secretary is 
                making

[[Page 114 STAT. 1001]]

                a payment in fiscal year 2000, such payment shall be 
                continued for a total of eight fiscal years.''.

    Sec. 347. (a) Exchange Required.--In exchange for the non-Federal 
lands and the additional consideration described in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to Kern County, California, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to four parcels 
of land under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service in Kern County, as 
follows:
            (1) Approximately 70 acres known as Camp Owen as depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Camp Owen'', dated June 15, 2000.
            (2) Approximately 4 acres known as Wofford Heights Park as 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Wofford Heights Park'', dated 
        June 15, 2000.
            (3) Approximately 4 acres known as the French Gulch 
        maintenance yard as depicted on the map entitled ``French Gulch 
        Maintenance Yard'', dated June 15, 2000.
            (4) Approximately 14 acres known as the Kernville Fish 
        Hatchery as depicted on the map entitled ``Kernville Fish 
        Hatchery'', dated June 15, 2000.

    (b) Consideration.--
            (1) Conveyance of non-federal lands.--As consideration for 
        the conveyance of the Federal lands referred to in subsection 
        (a), Kern County shall convey to the Secretary a parcel of land 
        for fair market value consisting of approximately 52 acres as 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Greenhorn Mountain Park'', 
        located in Kern County, California, dated June 18, 2000.
            (2) Replacement facility.--As additional consideration for 
        the conveyance of the storage facility located at the 
        maintenance yard referred to in subsection (a)(3), Kern County 
        shall provide a replacement storage facility of comparable size 
        and condition, as acceptable to the Secretary, at the Greenhorn 
        Ranger District Lake Isabella Maintenance Yard property.
            (3) Cash equalization payment.--As additional consideration 
        for the conveyance of the Federal lands referred to in 
        subsection (a), Kern County shall tender a cash equalization 
        payment specified by the Secretary. The cash equalization 
        payment shall be based upon an appraisal performed at the option 
        of the Forest Service pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).

    (c) Conditions on Acceptance.--Title to the non-Federal lands to be 
conveyed under this section must be acceptable to the Secretary, and the 
conveyance shall be subject to valid existing rights of record. The non-
Federal lands shall conform with the title approval standards applicable 
to Federal land acquisitions.
    (d) Time for Conveyance.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary 
shall complete the conveyance of the Federal lands under subsection (a) 
within 3 months after Kern County tenders to the Secretary the 
consideration required by subsection (b).
    (e) Status of Acquired Lands.--Upon approval and acceptance of title 
by the Secretary, the non-Federal lands conveyed to the United States 
under this section shall become part of Sequoia National Forest, and the 
boundaries of the national forest shall be adjusted to include the 
acquired lands. The Secretary shall manage the acquired lands for 
recreational purposes in accordance with the laws and regulations 
pertaining to the National Forest

[[Page 114 STAT. 1002]]

System. For purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundaries of the national 
forest, as adjusted pursuant to this section, shall be considered to be 
the boundaries of the national forest as of January 1, 1965.
    (f) Relationship to Environmental Liability.--In connection with the 
conveyances under this section, the Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions related to environmental liability as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States.
    (g) Legal Descriptions.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
the real property to be exchanged under this section shall be determined 
by a survey or surveys satisfactory to the Secretary. The costs of any 
such survey, as well as other administrative costs incurred to execute 
the land exchange (other than costs incurred by Kern County to comply 
with subsection (h)), shall be divided equally between the Secretary and 
Kern County.
    (h) Treatment of Existing Utility Lines at Camp Owen.--Upon receipt 
of the Federal lands described in subsection (a)(1), Kern County shall 
grant an easement, and record the easement in the appropriate office, 
for permitted or licensed uses of those lands that are unrecorded as of 
the date of the conveyance.
    (i) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
any exchange of National Forest System land under this section shall be 
subject to the laws (including regulations) applicable to the conveyance 
and acquisition of land for the National Forest System.
    Sec. 348. (a) Establishment.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 
March 1, 2001, the Secretary shall cause to be established an advisory 
group to provide continuing expert advice and counsel to the Director of 
the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) with respect to the 
research and development activities NETL conducts and manages.

    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The advisory group shall be composed of--
                    (A) a balanced group of--
                          (i) representatives of academia;
                          (ii) representatives of industry;
                          (iii) representatives of non-governmental 
                      organizations; and
                          (iv) representatives of energy regulatory 
                      agencies;
                    (B) a representative of the DOE's Office of Fossil 
                Energy;
                    (C) a representative of the DOE's Office of Energy 
                Efficiency and Renewable Energy;
                    (D) a representative of the DOE's Office of Science; 
                and
                    (E) others, as appropriate.

    (c) Duties.--The advisory group shall provide advice, information, 
and recommendations to the Director--
            (1) on management and strategic issues affecting the 
        laboratory; and
            (2) on the scientific and technical direction of the 
        laboratory's R&D program;

    (d) Compensation; Support; Procedures.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1003]]

            (1) Compensation and travel.--Members of the advisory group 
        who are not officers or employees of the United States, while 
        attending conferences or meetings of the group or otherwise 
        engaged in its business, or while serving away from their homes 
        or regular places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, 
        including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 
        section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons in the 
        Government service employed intermittently.
            (2) Administrative support.--The NETL shall furnish to the 
        advisory group clerical and administrative support.
            (3) Procedures and requirements.--In carrying out its 
        functions, the advisory group shall comply with the procedures 
        and requirements that apply to similar groups providing advice 
        and counsel to entities operating other Department of Energy 
        laboratories rather than the procedures and requirements that 
        apply to such a group providing advice directly to a Federal 
        entity.

    Sec. 349. (a) In furtherance of the purposes of the Umpqua Land 
Exchange Project (ULEP) and previous Congressional appropriations 
therefor, there is hereby appropriated the sum of $4,300,000 to be 
derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Such amount shall be 
available to the Foundation for Voluntary Land Exchanges 
(``Foundation'') working in conjunction with the Secretary of the 
Interior, and with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management as the lead 
Federal agency, to complete a Final Land Ownership Adjustment Plan 
(``Plan'') for the area (``Basin''), comprising approximately 675,000 
acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Coast Range-Umpqua 
River Basin,'' dated August 2000. No more than 15 percent of this 
appropriation shall be used by the agency for defraying administrative 
overhead.
    (b) In preparing the Plan, the Secretary shall identify, no later 
than March 31, 2001, those lands or interests in land with willing 
sellers which merit emergency purchase by the United States due to 
critical environmental values or possibility of imminent development. 
For lands or interests in land so identified, the Secretary and the 
Foundation shall arrange with landowners to complete appraisals and 
purchase clearances required by law so that the Secretary may thereafter 
consummate purchases as soon as funds therefor are appropriated by the 
Congress.
    (c) Pursuant to the funding and direction of subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall, in cooperation with the Foundation, no later than 
December 31, 2002, complete the Plan utilizing the Multi-Resource Land 
Allocation Model (``Model'') developed for the ULEP. The Plan shall 
identify: (1) non-Federal Lands or interests in land in the Basin which, 
with the concurrence of willing non-Federal landowners, are recommended 
for acquisition or exchange by the United States; (2) Federal lands or 
interests in land in the Basin recommended for disposal into non-Federal 
ownership in exchange for the acquired lands of equal value; and (3) 
specific land exchanges or purchases to implement the 
Plan. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In addition, no later than December 31, 2002, 
the Secretary, in cooperation with the Foundation, shall complete a 
draft Habitat Conservation Plan (``HCP'') covering the lands to be 
disposed of by the United States and consistent with the Plan, a 
comprehensive Final Environmental Impact Statement covering the Plan, 
and a comprehensive Biological Opinion analyzing the net impacts of the 
Plan at Plan scale over time in 5 year increments, taking into 
consideration

[[Page 114 STAT. 1004]]

all expected benefits to be achieved by the Plan and HCP, and any 
consistency determinations or amendments to any applicable Federal land 
management plans. The HCP shall cover all species analyzed in the Model 
(including species under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Commerce).

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  No later than March 31, 2002, the Secretary 
and the Foundation shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the 
U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the United States Senate, and the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, a joint report summarizing the Plan and the land 
exchanges or purchases identified to implement the Plan, and outlining: 
(1) any Fiscal Year 2003 funding needed for land purchases; (2) any 
recommendations for actions to expedite or facilitate the specific land 
exchanges or purchases identified to implement the Plan, or the HCP; and 
(3) an action Plan for making the Model publicly available for 
additional land exchanges or other purposes upon completion of the 
exchanges.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  No later than June 15, 2003: (1) the 
Secretary with the Foundation and the financial participation and 
commitment of willing private landowners shall complete appraisals and 
other land purchase or exchange clearances required by law, including 
those pertaining to cultural and historic resources and hazardous 
materials; and (2) the Secretary shall consummate with willing non-
Federal landowners the specific land exchanges previously identified in 
subsection (c) to implement the Plan, and together with the Secretary of 
Commerce, shall issue the HCP.

    Sec. 350. Notwithstanding section 351 of section 101(e) of division 
A, Public Law 105-277, the Indian Health Service is authorized to 
provide additional contract health service funds to Ketchikan Indian 
Corporation's recurring budget for hospital-related services for 
patients of Ketchikan Indian Corporation and the Organized Village of 
Saxman.
    Sec. 351. <<NOTE: Boise Laboratory Replacement Act of 2000.>>  (a) 
Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Boise Laboratory 
Replacement Act of 2000''.

    (b) Findings and Purpose.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the existing facilities of the Rocky Mountain 
                Research Station Boise laboratory are outdated and no 
                longer serve as a modern research facility;
                    (B) the Boise laboratory site is in the heart of a 
                Boise city redevelopment zone, and the existing 
                laboratory facilities detract from community improvement 
                efforts;
                    (C) it is desirable to colocate the Boise laboratory 
                with 1 of the State institutions of higher learning in 
                the Boise metropolitan area--
                          (i) to facilitate communications and sharing 
                      of research data between the agency and the Idaho 
                      scientific community;
                          (ii) to facilitate development and maintenance 
                      of the Boise laboratory as a modern, high quality 
                      research facility; and
                          (iii) to reduce costs, better use assets, and 
                      better serve the public; and
                    (D) it is desirable to make the Boise laboratory 
                site available for inclusion in a planned facility that 
                is being developed on adjacent property by the 
                University of Idaho

[[Page 114 STAT. 1005]]

                or the University of Idaho Foundation, a not-for-profit 
                corporation acting on behalf of the University of Idaho, 
                as a multiagency research and education facility to 
                serve various agencies and educational institutions of 
                the United States and the State.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to authorize 
        the Secretary--
                    (A) to sell or exchange the land and improvements 
                currently occupied by the Boise laboratory site; and
                    (B) to acquire land, facilities, or interests in 
                land and facilities, including condominium interests, to 
                colocate the Rocky Mountain Research Station Boise 
                laboratory with 1 of the State institutions of higher 
                learning in the Boise metropolitan area, using--
                          (i) funds derived from sale or exchange of the 
                      existing Boise laboratory site; and
                          (ii) to the extent the funds received are 
                      insufficient to carry out the acquisition of 
                      replacement research facilities, funds 
                      subsequently made available by appropriation for 
                      the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
                      the Rocky Mountain Research Station Boise 
                      laboratory.

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Boise laboratory site.--The term ``Boise laboratory 
        site'' means the approximately 3.26 acres of land and all 
        improvements in section 10, T. 3 N., R. 2 E., Boise Meridian, as 
        depicted on that Plat of Park View Addition to Boise, Ada 
        County, Idaho, labeled ``Boise Lab Site-May 22, 2000'', located 
        at 316 East Myrtle Street, Boise, Idaho.
            (2) Condominium interest.--The term ``condominium interest'' 
        means an estate in land consisting of (in accordance with law of 
        the State)--
                    (A) an undivided interest in common of a portion of 
                a parcel of real property; and
                    (B) a separate fee simple interest in another 
                portion of the parcel.
            (3) Fair market value.--The term ``fair market value'' means 
        the cash value of land on a specific date, as determined by an 
        appraisal acceptable to the Secretary and prepared in accordance 
        with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisitions.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Idaho.

    (d) Sale or Exchange of Boise Laboratory Site.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may, under such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary may prescribe and subject to valid 
        existing rights, sell or exchange any or all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the Boise laboratory 
        site.
            (2) Right of first refusal.--
                    (A) In general.--After a determination of fair 
                market value of the Boise laboratory site is approved by 
                the Secretary, the University of Idaho or the University 
                of Idaho Foundation, a not-for-profit organization 
                acting on behalf of the University of Idaho, shall be 
                allowed 210 days from

[[Page 114 STAT. 1006]]

                the effective date of value to exercise a right of first 
                refusal to purchase the Boise laboratory site at fair 
                market value.
                    (B) Cooperative development.--If the University of 
                Idaho or the University of Idaho Foundation exercises 
                the right of first refusal under paragraph (A), to 
                accomplish the purpose described in section (b)(2)(B), 
                the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
                cooperate with the University of Idaho in the 
                development of a multiagency research and education 
                facility on the Boise laboratory site and adjacent 
                property.
            (3) Solicitation of offers.--If the right of first refusal 
        described in subsection (d)(2) is not exercised, the Secretary 
        may solicit offers for purchase through sale or competitive 
        exchange of any and all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the Boise laboratory site.
            (4) Consideration.--Consideration for sale or exchange of 
        land under this subsection--
                    (A) shall be at least equal to the fair market value 
                of the Boise laboratory site; and
                    (B) may include land, existing improvements, or 
                improvements to be constructed to the specifications of 
                the Secretary, including condominium interests, and 
                cash, notwithstanding section 206(b) of Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
            (5) Rejection of offers.--The Secretary may reject any offer 
        made under this subsection if the Secretary determines that the 
        offer is not adequate or not in the public interest.

    (e) Disposition of Funds.--
            (1) Deposit of proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit the 
        proceeds of a sale or exchange under subsection (d) in the fund 
        established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a) (commonly 
        known as the ``Sisk Act'').
            (2) Use of proceeds.--Funds deposited under subsection (a) 
        shall be available to the Secretary, without further Act of 
        appropriation, for--
                    (A) the acquisition of or interest in land, or the 
                acquisition of or construction of facilities, including 
                condominium interests--
                          (i) to colocate the Boise laboratory with 1 of 
                      the State institutions of higher learning in the 
                      Boise metropolitan area; and
                          (ii) to replace other functions of the Boise 
                      laboratory; and
                    (B) to the extent the funds are not necessary to 
                carry out paragraph (A), the acquisition of other land 
                or interests in land in the State.

            TITLE IV--WILDLAND FIRE EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                        wildland fire management

    For necessary expenses for fire suppression operations, burned areas 
rehabilitation, hazardous fuels reduction, and rural fire assistance by 
the Department of the Interior, $353,740,000 to remain

[[Page 114 STAT. 1007]]

available until expended, of which $21,829,000 is for hazardous fuels 
reduction, $120,300,000 is for removal of hazardous fuels to alleviate 
immediate emergency threats to urban wildland interface areas as defined 
by the Secretary of Interior, $116,611,000 is for wildfire suppression, 
$85,000,000 is for burned areas rehabilitation, and $10,000,000 is for 
rural fire assistance: Provided, That using the amounts designated under 
this title of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into 
procurement contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for hazardous 
fuels reduction activities, and for training and monitoring associated 
with such hazardous fuels reduction activities, on Federal land, or on 
adjacent non-Federal land for activities that benefit resources on 
Federal land: Provided further, That the costs of implementing any 
cooperative agreement between the Federal government and any non-Federal 
entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties: 
Provided further, That in entering into such grants or cooperative 
agreements, the Secretary may consider the enhancement of local and 
small business employment opportunities for rural communities, and that 
in entering into procurement contracts under this section on a best 
value basis, the Secretary may take into account the ability of an 
entity to enhance local and small business employment opportunities in 
rural communities, and that the Secretary may award procurement 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements under this section to 
entities that include local non-profit entities, Youth Conservation 
Corps or related partnerships, or small or disadvantaged businesses: 
Provided further, That funds in this account are also available for 
repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts from which funds 
were previously transferred for such purposes: Provided further, That 
unobligated balances of amounts previously appropriated to the ``Fire 
Protection'' and ``Emergency Department of the Interior Firefighting 
Fund'' may be transferred and merged with this appropriation: Provided 
further, That persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be furnished 
subsistence and lodging without cost from funds available from this 
appropriation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 1856d, 
sums received by a bureau or office of the Department of the Interior 
for fire protection rendered pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et seq., 
Protection of United States Property, may be credited to the 
appropriation from which funds were expended to provide that protection, 
and are available without fiscal year limitation: Provided further, That 
the entire amount appropriated is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided 
further, That this amount shall be made available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as 
defined by such Act, is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1008]]

                              RELATED AGENY

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                        wildland fire management

    For an additional amount to cover necessary expenses for emergency 
rehabilitation, hazard reduction activities in the urban-wildland 
interface, support to federal emergency response, repaying firefighting 
funds borrowed from programs, and wildfire suppression activities of the 
Forest Service, $619,274,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $179,000,000 is for wildfire suppression, $120,000,000 is for 
removal of hazardous fuels to alleviate immediate emergency threats to 
urban wildland interface areas as defined by the Secretary of 
Agriculture, $142,000,000 is for emergency rehabilitation, $44,000,000 
is for capital improvement and maintenance of fire facilities, 
$16,000,000 is for research activities and to make competitive research 
grants pursuant to the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research 
Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1641 et seq.), $50,494,000 is for state fire 
assistance, $8,280,000 is for volunteer fire assistance, $12,000,000 is 
for forest health activities on state, private, and federal lands, 
$12,500,000 is for economic action programs, and $35,000,000 is for 
assistance to non-federal entities most affected by fire using all 
existing authorities under the State and Private Forestry appropriation; 
and of which $320,274,000 may be transferred to the ``State and Private 
Forestry'', ``National Forest System'', ``Forest and Rangeland 
Research'', and ``Capital Improvement and Maintenance'' accounts to fund 
state fire assistance, volunteer fire assistance, and forest health 
management, vegetation and watershed management, heritage site 
rehabilitation, wildlife and fish habitat management, trails and 
facilities maintenance and restoration: Provided, That transfers of any 
amounts in excess of those authorized in this title, shall require 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations in 
compliance with reprogramming procedures contained in House Report No. 
105-163: Provided further, That the costs of implementing any 
cooperative agreement between the Federal government and any non-Federal 
entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties: 
Provided further, That in entering into such grants or cooperative 
agreements, the Secretary may consider the enhancement of local and 
small business employment opportunities for rural communities, and that 
in entering into procurement contracts under this section on a best 
value basis, the Secretary may take into account the ability of an 
entity to enhance local and small business employment opportunities in 
rural communities, and that the Secretary may award procurement 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements under this section to 
entities that include local non-profit entities, Youth Conservation 
Corps or related partnerships with State, local or non-profit youth 
groups, or small or disadvantaged businesses: Provided further, That the 
entire amount appropriated is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That this amount shall be made available only to the extent that an 
official budget request for a specific dollar amount, that includes 
designation of the entire amount as

[[Page 114 STAT. 1009]]

an emergency requirement as defined by such Act, is transmitted by the 
President to the Congress: Provided further, That:
            (1) In expending the funds provided with respect to this 
        title for hazardous fuels reduction, the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may conduct fuel 
        reduction treatments on Federal lands using all contracting and 
        hiring authorities available to the Secretaries applicable to 
        hazardous fuel reduction activities under the wildland fire 
        management accounts. Notwithstanding Federal government 
        procurement and contracting laws, the Secretaries may conduct 
        fuel reduction treatments on Federal lands using grants and 
        cooperative agreements. Notwithstanding Federal government 
        procurement and contracting laws, in order to provide employment 
        and training opportunities to people in rural communities, the 
        Secretaries may award contracts, including contracts for 
        monitoring activities, to--
                    (A) local private, nonprofit, or cooperative 
                entities;
                    (B) Youth Conservation Corps crews or related 
                partnerships, with State, local and non-profit youth 
                groups;
                    (C) small or micro-businesses; or
                    (D) other entities that will hire or train a 
                significant percentage of local people to complete such 
                contracts. The authorities described above relating to 
                contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements are 
                available until all funds provided in this title for 
                hazardous fuels reduction activities in the urban 
                wildland interface are obligated.
            (2) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  Within 60 days 
        after enactment, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall, after consultation with State and local 
        fire-fighting agencies, jointly publish in the Federal Register 
        a list of all urban wildland interface communities, as defined 
        by the Secretaries, within the vicinity of Federal lands that 
        are at high risk from wildfire, as defined by the Secretaries. 
        This list shall include:
                    (A) an identification of communities around which 
                hazardous fuel reduction treatments are ongoing; and
                    (B) an identification of communities around which 
                the Secretaries are preparing to begin treatments in 
                fiscal year 2001.
            (3) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  Prior to May 
        1, 2001, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the 
        Interior shall jointly publish in the Federal Register a list of 
        all urban wildland interface communities, as defined by the 
        Secretaries, within the vicinity of Federal lands and at high 
        risk from wildfire that are included in the list published 
        pursuant to paragraph (2) but that are not included in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2), along with an 
        identification of reasons, including but not limited to lack of 
        available funds, why there are no treatments ongoing or being 
        prepared for these communities.
            (4) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  Within 30 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        publish in the Federal Register the Forest Service's Cohesive 
        Strategy for Protecting People and Sustaining Resources in Fire-
        Adapted Ecosystems. The documentation required by section 
        102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act accompanying 
        the proposed regulations revising the National Forest System 
        transportation policy; proposed roadless area protection 
        regulation; and proposed

[[Page 114 STAT. 1010]]

        Interior Columbia Basin Project; and the Sierra Nevada 
        Framework/Sierra Nevada Forest Plan shall contain an analysis 
        and explanation of any differences between the Cohesive Strategy 
        and the policies and rule-making listed in this paragraph. 
        Nothing in this title is intended or should require a delay in 
        the rule-makings listed in this paragraph.
            (5)(A) Funds provided to the Secretary of Agriculture by 
        this title and to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary 
        of Commerce, and the Council on Environmental Quality by this 
        Act and any other applicable act appropriating funds for fiscal 
        year 2001 shall be used as necessary to establish and implement 
        the expedited procedures set forth in this paragraph for 
        decisions to conduct hazardous fuel reduction treatments 
        pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), and any post-burn treatments 
        within the perimeters of areas burned by wildfire, on federal 
        lands.
            (B) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the 
        Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chairman of the 
        Council on Environmental Quality shall use such funds specified 
        in subparagraph (A) as necessary to evaluate the need for 
        revised or expedited environmental compliance procedures 
        including expedited procedures for the preparation of 
        documentation required by section 102(2) of the National 
        Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)) for treatment 
        decisions referred to in subparagraph (A). <<NOTE: Reports.>>  
        The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Interior, the 
        Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality shall report to 
        the relevant congressional committee of jurisdiction within 60 
        days of enactment of this Act to apprise the Congress of the 
        decision to develop any expedited procedures or adopt or 
        recommend any other measures. Each Secretary may employ any 
        expedited procedures developed pursuant to this subsection for a 
        treatment decision when the Secretary determines the procedures 
        to be appropriate for the decision. These procedures shall 
        ensure that the period of preparation for environmental 
        documentation be expedited to the maximum extent practicable. 
        Each Secretary and the Council shall effect any modifications to 
        existing regulations and guidance as may be necessary to provide 
        for the expedited procedures within 180 days of the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (C) With the funds specified in subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary, as defined in section 3(15) of the Endangered Species 
        Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1532(15)), may accord priority as 
        appropriate to consultation or conferencing under section 7 of 
        such Act (16 U.S.C. 1536) concerning any treatment decision 
        referred to in subparagraph (A) for which consultation or 
        conferencing is required.
            (D) With the funds specified in subparagraph (A), 
        administrative review of any treatment decision referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible 
        but under no circumstances shall exceed any statutory deadline 
        applicable to such review.
            (E) No provision in this title shall be construed to 
        override any existing environmental law.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1011]]

             TITLE V--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For an additional amount for ``Management of Lands and Resources'', 
$17,172,000 to remain available until expended, of which $15,687,000 
shall be used to address restoration needs caused by wildland fires and 
$1,485,000 shall be used for the treatment of grasshopper and Mormon 
Cricket infestations on lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management: 
Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                           resource management

    For an additional amount for ``Resource Management'', $1,500,000, to 
remain available until expended, for support of the preparation and 
implementation of plans, programs, or agreements, identified by the 
State of Idaho, that address habitat for freshwater aquatic species on 
non-federal lands in the State voluntarily enrolled in such plans, 
programs, or agreements, of which $200,000 shall be made available to 
the Boise, Idaho field office to participate in the preparation and 
implementation of the plans, programs, or agreements, of which $300,000 
shall be made available to the State of Idaho for preparation of the 
plans, programs, or agreements, including data collection and other 
activities associated with such preparation, and of which $1,000,000 
shall be made available to the State of Idaho to fund habitat 
enhancement, maintenance, or restoration projects consistent with such 
plans, programs, or agreements: Provided, That the entire amount made 
available under this paragraph is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement under section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount for salmon restoration and conservation 
efforts in the State of Maine, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, which amount shall be made available to the National Fish and 
Wildlife Foundation to carry out a competitively awarded grant program 
for State, local, or other organizations in Maine to fund on-the-ground 
projects to further Atlantic salmon conservation or restoration efforts 
in coordination with the State of Maine and the Maine Atlantic Salmon 
Conservation Plan, including projects to: (1) assist in land acquisition 
and conservation easements to benefit Atlantic salmon; (2) develop 
irrigation and water use management measures to minimize any adverse 
effects on salmon habitat; and (3) develop and phase in enhanced 
aquaculture cages to minimize escape of Atlantic salmon: Provided, That, 
of the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $2,000,000 shall be 
made available to the Atlantic Salmon Commission for salmon restoration 
and conservation activities, including installing and upgrading weirs 
and fish collection facilities, conducting risk assessments, fish 
marking, and salmon genetics studies and testing,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1012]]

and developing and phasing in enhanced aquaculture cages to minimize 
escape of Atlantic salmon, and $500,000 shall be made available to the 
National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of Atlantic salmon: 
Provided further, That amounts made available under this paragraph shall 
be provided to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation not later than 
15 days after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
the entire amount made available under this paragraph is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement under section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $8,500,000, to remain 
available until expended, to repair or replace buildings, equipment, 
roads, bridges, and water control structures damaged by natural 
disasters and conduct critical habitat restoration directly necessitated 
by natural disasters: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                          National Park Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $5,300,000, to remain 
available until expended, to repair or replace visitor facilities, 
equipment, roads and trails, and cultural sites and artifacts at 
national park units damaged by natural disasters: Provided, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'', $2,700,000, to remain available until expended, to repair or 
replace stream monitoring equipment and associated facilities damaged by 
natural disasters: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$1,200,000, to remain available until expended, for repair of the 
portions of the Yakama Nation's Signal Peak Road that have the most 
severe damage: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1013]]

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Trust Programs'' for 
unanticipated trust reform projects and costs related to the ongoing 
Cobell litigation, $27,600,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That funds provided herein for trust management improvements 
and litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to or merged with 
the ``Operations of Indian Programs'' account in the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account in the Office of the 
Solicitor, the ``Salaries and Expenses'' account in Departmental 
Management, the ``Royalty and Offshore Minerals Management'' account in 
the Minerals Management Service, and the ``Management of Lands and 
Resources'' account in the Bureau of Land Management: Provided further, 
That the entire amount provided under this heading is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                       state and private forestry

    For an additional amount for the Forest Service, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $9,294,000 for the Alaska Railroad for--
            (1) safety related track repair, damage, and control costs 
        from avalanches, hurricane force winds, and severe winter 
        storms; and
            (2) oil spill clean-up, recovery, and remediation arising 
        out of the related train derailments,

during the period of winter blizzards beginning December 21, 1999 for 
which the President declared a disaster on February 17, 2000 pursuant to 
the Stafford Act, as amended, (FEMA DR-1316-AK) as a direct lump sum 
payment and an additional $2,000,000 for an avalanche prevention program 
in the Chugach National Forest, Kenai National Park, Kenai National 
Wildlife Refuge and nearby public lands to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for emergency expenses resulting from 
damage from windstorms, $7,249,000 to become available upon enactment of 
this Act, and to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that the President 
submits to Congress an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1014]]

  TITLE VI-- <<NOTE: Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 2000.>> USER FEES 
UNDER FOREST SYSTEM RECREATION RESIDENCE PROGRAM

SEC. 601. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6201 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 
2000''.

SEC. 602. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6201.>>  FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) cabins located on forest land have provided a unique 
        recreation experience to a large number of cabin owners, their 
        families, and guests each year since Congress authorized the 
        recreation residence program in 1915; and
            (2) the fact that current appraisal procedures have, in 
        certain circumstances, been inconsistently applied in 
        determining fair market values for residential lots demonstrates 
        that problems exist in accurately reflecting market values.

SEC. 603. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6202.>>  PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
        National Forest System recreation residence program is managed 
        to preserve the opportunity for individual and family-oriented 
        recreation; and
            (2) to develop and implement a more consistent procedure for 
        determining cabin user fees, taking into consideration the 
        limitations of an authorization and other relevant market 
        factors.

SEC. 604. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6203.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' means the Forest Service.
            (2) Authorization.--The term ``authorization'' means a 
        special use permit for the use and occupancy of National Forest 
        System land by a cabin owner under the authority of the program.
            (3) Base cabin user fee.--The term ``base cabin user fee'' 
        means the fee for an authorization that results from the 
        appraisal of a lot as determined in accordance with sections 606 
        and 607.
            (4) Cabin.--The term ``cabin'' means a privately built and 
        owned recreation residence that is authorized for use and 
        occupancy on National Forest System land.
            (5) Cabin owner.--The term ``cabin owner'' means--
                    (A) a person authorized by the agency to use and to 
                occupy a cabin on National Forest System land; and
                    (B) an heir or assign of such a person.
            (6) Cabin user fee.--The term ``cabin user fee'' means a 
        special use fee paid annually by a cabin owner to the Secretary 
        in accordance with this title.
            (7) Caretaker cabin.--The term ``caretaker cabin'' means a 
        caretaker residence occupied in limited cases in which caretaker 
        services are necessary to maintain the security of a tract.
            (8) Current cabin user fee.--The term ``current cabin user 
        fee'' means the most recent cabin user fee that results from an 
        annual adjustment to the base cabin user fee in accordance with 
        section 608.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1015]]

            (9) Lot.--The term ``lot'' means a parcel of land in the 
        National Forest System--
                    (A) on which a cabin owner is authorized to build, 
                use, occupy, and maintain a cabin and related 
                improvements; and
                    (B) that is considered to be in its natural, native 
                state at the time at which a use of the lot described in 
                subparagraph (A) is first permitted by the Secretary.
            (10) Natural, native state.--The term ``natural, native 
        state'' means the condition of a lot or site, free of any 
        improvements, at the time at which the lot or site is first 
        authorized for recreation residence use by the agency.
            (11) Program.--The term ``program'' means the recreation 
        residence program established under the authority of the last 
        paragraph under the heading ``forest service'' in the Act of 
        March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1101, chapter 144; 16 U.S.C. 497).
            (12) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (13) Tract.--The term ``tract'' means an established 
        location within a National Forest containing 1 or more cabins 
        authorized in accordance with the program.
            (14) Tract association.--The term ``tract association'' 
        means a cabin owner association in which all cabin owners within 
        a tract are eligible for membership.
            (15) Typical lot.--The term ``typical lot'' means a cabin 
        lot, or a group of cabin lots, in a tract that is selected for 
        use in an appraisal as being representative of, and that has 
        similar value characteristics as, other lots or groups of lots 
        within the tract.

 SEC. 605. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6204.>>  ADMINISTRATION OF RECREATION 
            RESIDENCE PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that 
the basis and procedure for calculating cabin user fees results in a fee 
for an authorization that reflects, in accordance with this title--
            (1) the market value of a lot; and
            (2) regional and local economic influences.

 SEC. 606. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6205.>>  APPRAISALS.

    (a) Requirements for Conducting Appraisals.--In implementing and 
conducting an appraisal process for determining cabin user fees, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) complete an inventory of improvements that were paid for 
        by--
                    (A) the agency;
                    (B) third parties; or
                    (C) cabin owners (or predecessors of cabin owners),
        during the completion of which the Secretary shall presume that 
        a cabin owner, or a predecessor of the owner, has paid for the 
        capital costs of any utility, access, or facility serving the 
        lot being appraised, unless the Forest Service produces evidence 
        that the agency or a third party has paid for the capital costs;
            (2) establish an appraisal process to determine the market 
        value of the fee simple estate of a typical lot or lots 
        considered to be in a natural, native state, subject to 
        subsection (b)(4)(A);

[[Page 114 STAT. 1016]]

            (3) enter into a contract with an appropriate professional 
        appraisal organization to manage the development of specific 
        appraisal guidelines in accordance with subsection (b), subject 
        to public comment and congressional review;
            (4) require that an appraisal be performed by a State-
        certified general real estate appraiser, selected by the 
        Secretary and licensed to practice in the State in which the lot 
        is located;
            (5) provide the appraiser with appraisal guidelines 
        developed in accordance with this title;
            (6) notwithstanding any other provision of law, require the 
        appraiser to coordinate the appraisal closely with affected 
        parties by seeking information, cooperation, and advice from 
        cabin owners and tract associations;
            (7) require that the appraiser perform the appraisal in 
        compliance with--
                    (A) the most current edition of the Uniform 
                Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice in effect 
                on the date of the appraisal;
                    (B) the most current edition of the Uniform 
                Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions that 
                is in effect on the date of the appraisal; and
                    (C) the specific appraisal guidelines developed in 
                accordance with this title;
            (8) require that the appraisal report--
                    (A) be a full narrative report, in compliance with 
                the reporting standards of the Uniform Standards of 
                Professional Appraisal Practice; and
                    (B) comply with the reporting guidelines established 
                by the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
                Acquisitions; and
            (9) before accepting any appraisal, conduct a review of the 
        appraisal to ensure that the guidelines made available to the 
        appraiser have been followed and that the appraised values are 
        properly supported.

    (b) Specific Appraisal Guidelines.--In the development of specific 
appraisal guidelines in accordance with subsection (a)(3), the 
instructions to an appraiser shall require, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) Appraisal of a typical lot.--
                    (A) In general.--In conducting an appraisal under 
                this section, the appraiser--
                          (i) shall not appraise each individual lot;
                          (ii) shall appraise a typical lot or lots, 
                      selected by the cabin owners and the agency in a 
                      manner consistent with the policy of the program; 
                      and
                          (iii) shall be provided, and give appropriate 
                      consideration to, any information contained in the 
                      inventory of improvements relating to the lot 
                      being appraised.
                    (B) Estimate of market value of typical lot.--
                          (i) In general.--The appraiser shall estimate 
                      the market value of a typical lot in accordance 
                      with this title.
                          (ii) Equivalence to legally subdivided lot.--
                      In selecting a comparable sale under this title, 
                      the appraiser shall recognize that the typical lot 
                      will not usually be equivalent to a legally 
                      subdivided lot.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1017]]

            (2) Exception for certain sales of land.--In conducting an 
        appraisal under this title, the appraiser--
                    (A) shall not select sales of comparable land that 
                are sales of land within developed urban areas; and
                    (B) should not, in most circumstances, select a sale 
                of comparable land that includes land that is encumbered 
                by a conservation or recreational easement that is held 
                by a government or institution, except land that is 
                limited to use as a site for 1 home.
            (3) Adjustments for typical value influences.--
                    (A) In general.--The appraiser shall consider, and 
                adjust as appropriate, the price of sales of comparable 
                land for all typical value influences described in 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Value influences.--The typical value influences 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) include--
                          (i) differences in the locations of the 
                      parcels;
                          (ii) accessibility, including limitations on 
                      access attributable to--
                                    (I) weather;
                                    (II) the condition of roads or 
                                trails;
                                    (III) restrictions imposed by the 
                                agency; or
                                    (IV) other factors;
                          (iii) the presence of marketable timber;
                          (iv) limitations on, or the absence of, 
                      services such as law enforcement, fire control, 
                      road maintenance, or snow plowing;
                          (v) the condition and regulatory compliance of 
                      any site improvements; and
                          (vi) any other typical value influences 
                      described in standard appraisal literature.
            (4) Adjustments to sales of comparable parcels.--
                    (A) Utilities, access, or facilities.--
                          (i) Agency.--Utilities, access, or facilities 
                      serving a lot that are provided by the agency 
                      shall be included as features of the lot being 
                      appraised.
                          (ii) Cabin owners.--Utilities, access, or 
                      facilities serving a lot that are provided by the 
                      cabin owner (or a predecessor of the cabin owner) 
                      shall not be included as a feature of the lot 
                      being appraised.
                          (iii) Third parties.--Utilities, access, or 
                      facilities serving a lot that are provided by a 
                      third party shall not be included as a feature of 
                      the lot being appraised unless, in accordance with 
                      subsection (a)(1), the agency determines that the 
                      capital costs have not been or are not being paid 
                      by the cabin owner (or a predecessor of the cabin 
                      owner).
                          (iv) Withdrawal of utility or access by 
                      agency.--If, during the term of an authorization, 
                      the agency or an act of God creates a substantial 
                      and materially adverse change in--
                                    (I) the provision or maintenance of 
                                any utility or access; or
                                    (II) a qualitative feature of the 
                                lot or immediate surroundings,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1018]]

                      the cabin owner shall have the right to request, 
                      and, at the discretion of the Secretary, obtain a 
                      new determination of the base cabin user fee at 
                      the expense of the agency.
                    (B) Adjustment for exclusion.--In a case in which 
                any comparable sale includes utilities, access, or 
                facilities that are to be excluded in the appraisal of 
                the subject lot, the price of the comparable sale shall 
                be adjusted, as appropriate.
                    (C) Adjustment process.--
                          (i) In general.--The appraiser shall consider 
                      and adjust, as appropriate, the price of each sale 
                      of a comparable parcel for all nonnatural features 
                      referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) that--
                                    (I)(aa) are present at, or add value 
                                to, the comparable parcel; but
                                    (bb) are not present at the lot 
                                being appraised; or
                                    (II) are not included in the 
                                appraisal as described in subparagraph 
                                (A).
                          (ii) Adjustments.--
                                    (I) In general.--In a case in which 
                                the price of a parcel sold is to be 
                                adjusted in accordance with subparagraph 
                                (B), the adjustment may be based on an 
                                analysis of market or cost information 
                                or both.
                                    (II) Cost information.--If cost 
                                information is used as the basis of an 
                                adjustment under subclause (I), the cost 
                                information shall be supported by direct 
                                market evidence.
                          (iii) Analysis of cost information.--An 
                      analysis of cost information under clause (ii)(I) 
                      should include allowances, as appropriate, if the 
                      allowances are consistent with--
                                    (I) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice in 
                                effect on the date of the analysis; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisition.
                    (D) Reappraisal for and recalculation of base cabin 
                user fee.--Periodically, but not less often than once 
                every 10 years, the Secretary shall recalculate the base 
                cabin user fee (including conducting any reappraisal 
                required to recalculate the base cabin user fee).

 SEC. 607. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6206.>>  CABIN USER FEES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish the cabin user fee as 
the amount that is equal to 5 percent of the market value of the lot, as 
determined in accordance with section 606, reflecting an adjustment to 
the typical market rate of return due to restrictions imposed by the 
permit, including--
            (1) the limited term of the authorization;
            (2) the absence of significant property rights normally 
        attached to fee simple ownership; and
            (3) the public right of access to, and use of, any open 
        portion of the lot on which the cabin or other enclosed 
        improvements are not located.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1019]]

    (b) Fee for Caretaker Cabin.--The base cabin user fee for a lot on 
which a caretaker cabin is located shall not be greater than the base 
cabin user fee charged for the authorized use of a similar typical lot 
in the tract.
    (c) Annual Cabin User Fee in the Event of Determination Not To 
Reissue Authorization.--If the Secretary determines that an 
authorization should not be reissued at the end of a term, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) establish as the new base cabin user fee for the 
        remaining term of the authorization the amount charged as the 
        cabin user fee in the year that was 10 years before the year in 
        which the authorization expires; and
            (2) calculate the current cabin user fee for each of the 
        remaining 9 years of the term of the authorization by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) \1/10\ of the new base cabin user fee; by
                    (B) the number of years remaining in the term of the 
                authorization after the year for which the cabin user 
                fee is being calculated.

    (d) Annual Cabin User Fee in Event of Changed Conditions.--If a 
review of a decision to convert a lot to an alternative public use 
indicates that the continuation of the authorization for use and 
occupancy of the cabin by the cabin owner is warranted, and the decision 
is subsequently reversed, the Secretary may require the cabin owner to 
pay any portion of annual cabin user fees that were forgone as a result 
of the expectation of termination of use and occupancy of the cabin by 
the cabin owner.
    (e) Termination of Fee Obligation in Loss Resulting From Acts of God 
or Catastrophic Events.--On a determination by the agency that, because 
of an act of God or a catastrophic event, a lot cannot be safely 
occupied and the authorization for the lot should accordingly be 
terminated, the fee obligation of the cabin owner shall terminate 
effective on the date of the occurrence of the act or event.

 SEC. 608. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6207.>>  ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF CABIN USER FEE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall adjust the cabin user fee 
annually, using a rolling 5-year average of a published price index in 
accordance with subsection (b) or (c) that reports changes in rural or 
similar land values in the State, county, or market area in which the 
lot is located.
    (b) Initial Index.--
            (1) In general.--For the period of 10 years beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall use changes 
        in agricultural land prices in the appropriate State or county, 
        as reported in the Index of Agricultural Land Prices published 
        by the Department of Agriculture, to determine the annual 
        adjustment to the cabin user fee in accordance with subsections 
        (a) and (d).
            (2) Statewide changes.--In determining the annual adjustment 
        to the cabin user fee for an authorization located in a county 
        in which agricultural land prices are influenced by the value 
        influences described in section 606(b)(3), the Secretary shall 
        use average statewide changes in the State in which the lot is 
        located.

    (c) New Index.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1020]]

            (1) In general.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 10 
        years after the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary 
        may select and use an index other than the method of adjustment 
        of a cabin user fee described in subsection (b)(2) to adjust a 
        cabin user fee if the Secretary determines that a different 
        index better reflects change in the value of a lot over time.
            (2) Selection process.--Before selecting a new index, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) solicit and consider comments from the public; 
                and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  not later than 60 days 
                before the date on which the Secretary makes a final 
                index selection, submit any proposed selection of a new 
                index to--
                          (i) the Committee on Resources of the House of 
                      Representatives; and
                          (ii) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
                      and Forestry of the Senate.

    (d) Limitation.--In calculating an annual adjustment to the base 
cabin user fee as determined by the initial index described in section 
(b), the Secretary shall--
            (1) limit any annual fee adjustment to an amount that is not 
        more than 5 percent per year when the change in agricultural 
        land values exceeds 5 percent in any 1 year; and
            (2) apply the amount of any adjustment that exceeds 5 
        percent to the annual fee payment for the next year in which the 
        change in the index factor is less than 5 percent.

 SEC. 609. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6208.>>  PAYMENT OF CABIN USER FEES.

    (a) Due Date for Payment of Fees.--A cabin user fee shall be prepaid 
annually by the cabin owner.
    (b) Payment of Equal or Lesser Fee.--If, in accordance with section 
607, the Secretary determines that the amount of a new base cabin user 
fee is equal to or less than the amount of the current base cabin user 
fee, the Secretary shall require payment of the new base cabin user fee 
by the cabin owner in accordance with subsection (a).
    (c) Payment of Greater Fee.--If, in accordance with section 607, the 
Secretary determines that the amount of a new base cabin user fee is 
greater than the amount of the current base cabin user fee, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) require full payment of the new base cabin user fee in 
        the first year following completion of the fee determination 
        procedure if the increase in the amount of the new base cabin 
        user fee is not more than 100 percent of the current base cabin 
        user fee; or
            (2) phase in the increase over the current base cabin user 
        fee in approximately equal increments over 3 years if the 
        increase in the amount of the new base cabin user fee is more 
        than 100 percent of the current base cabin user fee.

 SEC. 610. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6209.>>  RIGHT OF SECOND APPRAISAL.

    (a) Right of Second Appraisal.--On receipt of notice from the 
Secretary of the determination of a new base cabin user fee, the cabin 
owner--
            (1) not later than 60 days after the date on which the 
        notice is received, may notify the Secretary of the intent of 
        the cabin owner to obtain a second appraisal; and
            (2) may obtain, within 1 year following the date of receipt 
        of the notice under this subsection, at the expense of the cabin

[[Page 114 STAT. 1021]]

        owner, a second appraisal of the typical lot on which the 
        initial appraisal was conducted.

    (b) Conduct of Second Appraisal.--In conducting a second appraisal, 
the appraiser selected by the cabin owner shall--
            (1) have qualifications equivalent to the appraiser that 
        conducted the initial appraisal in accordance with section 
        606(a)(4);
            (2) use the appraisal guidelines used in the initial 
        appraisal in accordance with section 606(a)(5);
            (3) consider all relevant factors in accordance with this 
        title (including guidelines developed under section 606(a)(3)); 
        and
            (4) notify the Secretary of any material differences of fact 
        or opinion between the initial appraisal conducted by the agency 
        and the second appraisal.

    (c) Request for Reconsideration of Base Cabin User Fee.--A cabin 
owner <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  shall submit to the Secretary any request for 
reconsideration of the base cabin user fee, based on the results of the 
second appraisal, not later than 60 days after the receipt of the report 
for the second appraisal.

    (d) Reconsideration of Base Cabin User Fee.--On receipt of a request 
from the cabin owner under subsection (c) for reconsideration of a base 
cabin user fee, not later than 60 days after the date of receipt of the 
request, the Secretary shall--
            (1) review the initial appraisal of the agency;
            (2) review the results and commentary from the second 
        appraisal;
            (3) determine a new base cabin user fee in an amount that 
        is--
                    (A) equal to the base cabin user fee determined by 
                the initial or the second appraisal; or
                    (B) within the range of values, if any, between the 
                initial and second appraisals; and
            (4) notify the cabin owner of the amount of the new base 
        cabin user fee.

 SEC. 611. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6210.>>  RIGHT OF APPEAL AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Right of Appeal.--Notwithstanding any action of a cabin owner to 
exercise rights in accordance with section 610, the Secretary shall by 
regulation grant the cabin owner the right to an administrative appeal 
of the determination of a new base cabin user fee.
    (b) Judicial Review.--A cabin owner that is adversely affected by a 
final decision of the Secretary under this title may bring a civil 
action in United States district court.

 SEC. 612. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6211.>>  CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER LAW AND 
            RIGHTS.

    (a) Consistency With Rights of the United States.--Nothing in this 
title limits or restricts any right, title, or interest of the United 
States in or to any land or resource.
    (b) Special Rule for Alaska.--In determining a cabin user fee in the 
State of Alaska, the Secretary shall not establish or impose a cabin 
user fee or a condition affecting a cabin user fee that is inconsistent 
with 1303(d) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 
U.S.C. 3193(d)).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1022]]

 SEC. 613. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6212.>>  REGULATIONS.

    Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to 
carry out this title.

SEC. 614. <<NOTE: 16 USC 6213.>>  TRANSITION PROVISIONS.

    (a) Assessment of Annual Fees.--For the period of time determined 
under subsection (b), the Secretary shall charge each cabin owner an 
annual fee as follows:
            (1) Lots not appraised since september 30, 1995.--For a lot 
        that has not been appraised since September 30, 1995, the annual 
        fee shall be equal to the amount of the annual fee in effect on 
        the date of enactment of this title, adjusted annually to 
        reflect changes in the Implicit Price Deflator-Gross National 
        Product Index.
            (2) Lots appraised on or after september 30, 1995.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), for a lot that has been appraised on or after 
                September 30, 1995, the annual fee shall be equal to the 
                amount of the fee in effect on the date of enactment of 
                this title, adjusted annually to reflect changes in the 
                Implicit Price Deflator-Gross National Product Index.
                    (B) Appraisals resulting in base fee increase.--
                          (i) In general.--Except as provided in clause 
                      (ii), for a lot that has been appraised on or 
                      after September 30, 1995, for which the appraisal 
                      resulted in an increase of the base fee by an 
                      amount greater than $3,000, the annual fee shall 
                      be equal to the sum of $3,000 plus the amount of 
                      the annual fee in effect on October 1, 1996, 
                      adjusted annually to reflect the percentage change 
                      in the Implicit Price Deflator-Gross National 
                      Product Index.
                          (ii) Fees paid after request of new appraisal 
                      or peer review.--If--
                                    (I) the cabin owner of a lot 
                                described in clause (i) requests a new 
                                appraisal or peer review under 
                                subsection (c); and
                                    (II) the base cabin user fee 
                                established as a result of the appraisal 
                                or peer review is determined to be an 
                                amount that is 90 percent or more of the 
                                fee in effect for the lot as determined 
                                by an appraisal conducted on or after 
                                September 30, 1995,
                      the Secretary shall charge the cabin owner, in 
                      addition to the annual fee that would otherwise 
                      have been due under section 609, the difference 
                      between the base cabin user fee determined through 
                      the conduct of the new appraisal or peer review 
                      and the annual fee that would otherwise have been 
                      due under section 609, to be assessed 
                      retroactively for each year beginning with the 
                      year in which the previous appraisal was 
                      conducted, and to be paid in 3 equal annual 
                      installments.

    (b) Term.--
            (1) Lots not appraised since september 30, 1995.--For a lot 
        that has not been appraised since September 30, 1995,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1023]]

        the Secretary shall charge fees in accordance with subsection 
        (a)(2)(A) until--
                    (A) a base cabin user fee is determined in 
                accordance with--
                          (i) this title; or
                          (ii) regulations and policies in effect on the 
                      date of enactment of this title; and
                    (B) the right of the cabin owner to a second 
                appraisal under section 610 is exhausted.
            (2) Lots appraised on or after september 30, 1995.--For a 
        lot that has been appraised on or after September 30, 1995, the 
        Secretary shall charge fees under subsection (a)(2) until--
                    (A) the cabin owner requests a new appraisal or peer 
                review, and a base cabin user fee is established, under 
                subsection (c); or
                    (B) in the absence of a request for a peer review or 
                a new appraisal under subsection (c), the date that is 2 
                years after the date on which the Forest Service 
                promulgates regulations and policies and develops 
                appraisal guidelines under this title.

    (c) Request For New Appraisal Under New Law.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
        promulgation of final regulations and policies and the 
        development of appraisal guidelines in accordance with section 
        606(a)(5), cabin owners that are subject to appraisals completed 
        after September 30, 1995, but before the date of promulgation of 
        final regulations under section 613, may request, in accordance 
        with paragraph (2), that the Secretary--
                    (A) conduct a new appraisal and determine a new base 
                cabin user fee in accordance with this title; or
                    (B) commission a peer review of the existing 
                appraisals in accordance with paragraph (4).
            (2) Appraisal groupings by typical lot.--A request for a new 
        appraisal or for a peer review of existing appraisals under 
        paragraph (1) shall be made by a majority of the cabin owners in 
        a group of cabins represented in the appraisal process by a 
        typical lot.
            (3) Conduct of new appraisal.--On receipt of a request for 
        an appraisal and fee determination in accordance with paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary shall conduct the new appraisal and fee 
        determination in accordance with this title.
            (4) Peer review of existing appraisals.--
                    (A) In general.--On receipt of a request for peer 
                review in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary 
                shall obtain from an independent professional appraisal 
                organization a review of the appraisal (including any 
                report on the appraisal) that was used to establish the 
                estimated fee simple value of the lots within the 
                subject grouping.
                    (B) Inconsistency.--If peer review described in 
                subparagraph (A) results in a determination that an 
                appraisal or appraisal report includes provisions or 
                procedures that were implemented or conducted in a 
                manner inconsistent with this title, the Secretary 
                shall, as appropriate and in accordance with this 
                title--
                          (i) revise an existing base cabin user fee; or

[[Page 114 STAT. 1024]]

                          (ii) subject to an agreement with the cabin 
                      owners, conduct a new appraisal and fee 
                      determination.
            (5) Payment of costs.--Cabin owners and the Secretary shall 
        share, in equal proportion, the payment of all reasonable costs 
        of any new appraisal or peer review.

    (d) Assumption of New Base Cabin User Fee.--In the absence of a 
request under subsection (c) for a new appraisal and fee determination 
from a cabin owner whose cabin user fee was determined as a result of an 
appraisal conducted after September 30, 1995, but before the date of 
promulgation of final regulations under section 613, the Secretary may 
consider the base cabin user fee resulting from the appraisal conducted 
between September 30, 1995 and the date of promulgation of the final 
regulations under section 613 to be the base cabin user fee that 
complies with this section.

        TITLE VII--TREATMENT OF CERTAIN FUNDS FOR MINER BENEFITS

    Sec. 701. (a) Reallocation of Interest.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, interest credited to the fund established by section 
401 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 
1231) for fiscal years 1992 through 1995 not transferred to the Combined 
Fund identified in section 402(h)(2) of such Act prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act shall be transferred to such Combined Fund--
            (1) in such amounts as estimated by the trustees of such 
        Fund to offset the amount of any deficit in net assets in the 
        Combined Fund through August 31, 2001;
            (2) in the amount of $2,200,000 for the purpose of the 
        Combined Fund providing a refund of any premium (as described in 
        section 9704(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1988), on a 
        proportional basis, to those signatory operators or any related 
        persons to such operators (as defined in section 9701(c) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1988) who have been denied such refunds 
        as the result of final judgments or settlements if prior to the 
        date of enactment of this Act such signatory operator (or any 
        related persons to such operator)--
                    (A) had all of its beneficiary assignments made 
                under section 9706 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                voided by the Commissioner of the Social Security 
                Administration;
                    (B) was subject to a final judgment or final 
                settlement of litigation adverse to a claim by such 
                operator that the assignment of beneficiaries under 
                section 9706 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 was 
                unconstitutional as applied to it; and
                    (C) paid to the Combined Fund any premium amount 
                that had not been refunded; and
            (3) in such amounts as necessary for the purpose of the 
        Combined Fund providing a monthly refund of any premium (as 
        described in section 9704(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986) paid by an assigned operator (as defined by section 
        9701(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) commencing with 
        the first monthly premium due date after the date of enactment 
        of this Act and ending August 31, 2001, if according to the 
        records of the Combined Fund such operator (or any related 
        persons of such operator)--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1025]]

                    (A) was not a signatory to the 1981 or later 
                National Bituminous Coal Wage Agreement or any ``me 
                too'' agreement related to such Coal Wage Agreement;
                    (B) reported credit hours to the UMWA 1974 Pension 
                Plan on fewer than ten classified mine workers in every 
                month during its last year of operations under the 
                National Bituminous Coal Wage Agreement of 1978 or any 
                ``me too'' agreement related to such Coal Wage 
                Agreement;
                    (C) has had not more than 60 beneficiaries, 
                including eligible dependents of retired miners, 
                assigned to it under section 9706 of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986 not including beneficiary 
                assignments relieved by the Social Security 
                Administration;
                    (D) was assessed premiums by the Combined Fund in 
                October 1999, made payments pursuant to that assessment 
                and has no delinquency as of September 30, 2000; and
                    (E) is not directly engaged in the production or 
                sale of coal and has no related person engaged in the 
                production of coal as of September 30, 2000.

    (b) Separability Clause.--If any provision of this title or the 
application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the 
remainder of the title and the application of such provision to other 
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

     TITLE VIII--LAND CONSERVATION, PRESERVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
                               IMPROVEMENT

    For activities authorized by law for the acquisition, conservation, 
and maintenance of Federal and non-Federal lands and resources, and for 
Payments in Lieu of Taxes, in addition to the amounts provided under 
previous titles of this Act, $686,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $179,000,000 is for the acquisition of lands or 
interests in lands; and of which $50,000,000 is for ``National Park 
Service, Land Acquisition and State Assistance'' for the state 
assistance program; and of which $20,000,000 is for ``Forest Service, 
National Forest System'' for inventory and monitoring activities and 
planning; and of which $78,000,000 is for ``United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service, Cooperative Endangered Species Fund''; and of which 
$20,000,000 is for ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service, North 
American Wetlands Conservation Fund''; and of which $20,000,000 is for 
``United States Geological Survey, Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'' for science and cooperative programs; and of which 
$30,000,000 is for ``Forest Service, State and Private Forestry'' for 
the Forest Legacy program; and of which $50,000,000 is for ``United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service, State Wildlife Grants''; and of which 
$20,000,000 is for ``National Park Service, Urban Park and Recreation 
Fund''; and of which $15,000,000 is for ``National Park Service, 
Historic Preservation Fund'' for grants to states and Indian tribes; and 
of which $4,000,000 is for ``Forest Service, State and Private 
Forestry'' for urban and community forestry programs; and of which 
$50,000,000 is for ``Bureau of Land Management, Payments in Lieu of 
Taxes''; and of which $150,000,000 is for ``Federal Infrastructure 
Improvement'' for the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1026]]

deferred maintenance needs of the Federal land management agencies: 
Provided, That of the funds provided under this heading for the 
acquisition of lands or interests in lands, $130,000,000 shall be 
available to the Department of the Interior and $49,000,000 shall be 
available to the Department of Agriculture, Forest Service: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading for the 
acquisition of lands or interests in lands shall be available until the 
House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on 
Appropriations provide to the Secretaries, in writing, a list of 
specific acquisitions to be undertaken with such funds: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided under this heading for ``Federal 
Infrastructure Improvement'' for the deferred maintenance needs of the 
Federal land management agencies, $25,000,000 shall be for the Bureau of 
Land Management, $25,000,000 shall be for the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service, $50,000,000 shall be for the National Park Service and 
$50,000,000 shall be for the Forest Service.
    Sec. 801. (a) Categories.--Section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6), by--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon; and
                    (C) adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) for the conservation spending category: 
                $1,760,000,000, in new budget authority and 
                $1,232,000,000 in outlays;'';
            (2) in paragraph (7), by--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) for the conservation spending category: 
                $1,920,000,000, in new budget authority and 
                $1,872,000,000 in outlays;''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) with respect to fiscal year 2004 for the conservation 
        spending category: $2,080,000,000, in new budget authority and 
        $2,032,000,000 in outlays;
            ``(9) with respect to fiscal year 2005 for the conservation 
        spending category: $2,240,000,000, in new budget authority and 
        $2,192,000,000 in outlays;
            ``(10) with respect to fiscal year 2006 for the conservation 
        spending category: $2,400,000,000, in new budget authority and 
        $2,352,000,000 in outlays;
            ``(11) with respect to each fiscal year 2002 through 2006 
        for the Federal and State Land and Water Conservation Fund sub-
        category of the conservation spending category: $540,000,000 in 
        new budget authority and the outlays flowing therefrom;
            ``(12) with respect to each fiscal year 2002 through 2006 
        for the State and Other Conservation sub-category of the 
        conservation spending category: $300,000,000 in new budget 
        authority and the outlays flowing therefrom;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1027]]

            ``(13) with respect to each fiscal year 2002 through 2006 
        for the Urban and Historic Preservation sub-category of the 
        conservation spending category: $160,000,000 in new budget 
        authority and the outlays flowing therefrom;
            ``(14) with respect to each fiscal year 2002 through 2006 
        for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes sub-category of the 
        conservation spending category: $50,000,000 in new budget 
        authority and the outlays flowing therefrom;
            ``(15) with respect to each fiscal year 2002 through 2006 
        for the Federal Deferred Maintenance sub-category of the 
        conservation spending category: $150,000,000 in new budget 
        authority and the outlays flowing therefrom;
            ``(16) with respect to fiscal year 2002 for the Coastal 
        Assistance sub-category of the conservation spending category: 
        $440,000,000 in new budget authority and the outlays flowing 
        therefrom; with respect to fiscal year 2003 for the Coastal 
        Assistance sub-category of the conservation spending category: 
        $480,000,000 in new budget authority and the outlays flowing 
        therefrom; with respect to fiscal year 2004 for the Coastal 
        Assistance sub-category of the conservation spending category: 
        $520,000,000 in new budget authority and the outlays flowing 
        therefrom; with respect to fiscal year 2005 for the Coastal 
        Assistance sub-category of the conservation spending category: 
        $560,000,000 in new budget authority and the outlays flowing 
        therefrom; and with respect to fiscal year 2006 for the Coastal 
        Assistance sub-category of the conservation spending category: 
        $600,000,000 in new budget authority and the outlays flowing 
        therefrom;''.

    (b) Addition to Discretionary Spending Limits.--Section 251(b)(2) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) Conservation spending.--(i) If a bill or 
                resolution making appropriations for any fiscal year 
                appropriates an amount for the conservation spending 
                category that is less than the limit for the 
                conservation spending category as specified in 
                subsection (c), then the adjustment for new budget 
                authority and outlays for the following fiscal year for 
                that category shall be the amount of new budget 
                authority and outlays that equals the difference between 
                the amount appropriated and the amount of that category 
                specified in subsection (c).
                    ``(ii) If a bill or resolution making appropriations 
                for any fiscal year appropriates an amount for any 
                conservation spending sub-category that is less than the 
                limit for that conservation spending sub-category as 
                specified in subsections (c)(11)-(c)(16), then the 
                adjustment for new budget authority for the following 
                fiscal year for that sub-category shall be the amount of 
                new budget authority that equals the difference between 
                the amount appropriated and the amount of that sub-
                category specified in subsection (c)(11)-(c)(16).
                    ``(iii) The total amount provided for any 
                conservation activity within the conservation spending 
                category may not exceed any authorized ceiling for that 
                activity.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1028]]

    (c) Categories Defined.--Section 250(c)(4) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(4)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) The term `conservation spending category' 
                means discretionary appropriations for conservation 
                activities in the following budget accounts or portions 
                thereof providing appropriations to preserve and protect 
                lands, habitat, wildlife, and other natural resources, 
                to provide recreational opportunities, and for related 
                purposes:
                          ``(i) 14-5033 Bureau of Land Management Land 
                      Acquisition.
                          ``(ii) 14-5020 Fish and Wildlife Service Land 
                      Acquisition.
                          ``(iii) 14-5035 National Park Service Land 
                      Acquisition and State Assistance.
                          ``(iv) 12-9923 Forest Service Land 
                      Acquisition.
                          ``(v) 14-5143 Fish and Wildlife Service 
                      Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund.
                          ``(vi) 14-5241 Fish and Wildlife Service North 
                      American Wetlands Conservation Fund.
                          ``(vii) 14-1694 Fish and Wildlife Service 
                      State Wildlife Grants.
                          ``(viii) 14-0804 United States Geological 
                      Survey Surveys, Investigations, and Research, the 
                      State Planning Partnership programs: Community/
                      Federal Information Partnership, Urban Dynamics, 
                      and Decision Support for Resource Management.
                          ``(ix) 12-1105 Forest Service State and 
                      Private Forestry, the Forest Legacy Program, Urban 
                      and Community Forestry, and Smart Growth 
                      Partnerships.
                          ``(x) 14-1031 National Park Service Urban Park 
                      and Recreation Recovery program.
                          ``(xi) 14-5140 National Park Service Historic 
                      Preservation Fund.
                          ``(xii) Youth Conservation Corps.
                          ``(xiii) 14-1114 Bureau of Land Management 
                      Payments in Lieu of Taxes.
                          ``(xiv) Federal Infrastructure Improvement (as 
                      established in title VIII of the Department of the 
                      Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
                      2001).
                          ``(xv) 13-1460 NOAA Procurement Acquisition 
                      and Construction, the National Marine Sanctuaries 
                      and the National Estuarine Research Reserve 
                      Systems.
                          ``(xvi) 13-1450 NOAA Operations, Research, and 
                      Facilities, the Coastal Zone Management Act 
                      programs, the National Marine Sanctuaries, the 
                      National Estuarine Research Reserve Systems, and 
                      Coral Restoration programs.
                          ``(xvii) 13-1451 NOAA Pacific Coastal Salmon 
                      Recovery.
                    ``(F) The term `Federal and State Land and Water 
                Conservation Fund sub-category' means discretionary 
                appropriations for activities in the accounts described 
                in (E)(i)-(E)(iv) or portions thereof.
                    ``(G) The term `State and Other Conservation sub-
                category' means discretionary appropriations for 
                activities in

[[Page 114 STAT. 1029]]

                the accounts described in (E)(v)-(E)(ix), with the 
                exception of Urban and Community Forestry as described 
                in (E)(ix), or portions thereof.
                    ``(H) The term `Urban and Historic Preservation sub-
                category' means discretionary appropriations for 
                activities in the accounts described in (E)(ix)-
                (E)(xii), with the exception of Forest Legacy and Smart 
                Growth Partnerships as described in (E)(ix), or portions 
                thereof.
                    ``(I) The term `Payments in Lieu of Taxes sub-
                category' means discretionary appropriations for 
                activities in the account described in (E)(xiii) or 
                portions thereof.
                    ``(J) The term `Federal Deferred Maintenance sub-
                category' means discretionary appropriations for 
                activities in the account described in (E)(xiv) or 
                portions thereof.
                    ``(K) The term `Coastal Assistance sub-category' 
                means discretionary appropriations for activities in the 
                accounts described in (E)(xv)-(E)(xvii) or portions 
                thereof.''.

                                TITLE IX

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

       gifts to the united states for reduction of the public debt

    For deposit of an additional amount into the account established 
under section 3113(d) of title 31, United States Code, to reduce the 
public debt, $5,000,000,000.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001''.

    Approved October 11, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4578:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-646 (Comm. on Appropriations) and No. 106-914 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-312 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            June 13-15, considered and passed House.
            July 10, 12, 17, 18, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 3, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 3-5, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Oct. 11, Presidential statement and remarks.

                                  <all>