[106th Congress Public Law 414]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ414.106]


[[Page 1799]]

  TRANSPORTATION RECALL ENHANCEMENT, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND DOCUMENTATION 
                               (TREAD) ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 1800]]

Public Law 106-414
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To amend title 49, United States <<NOTE: Nov. 1, 2000 -  [H.R. 
5164]>> Code, to require reports concerning defects in motor vehicles or 
  tires or other motor vehicle equipment in foreign countries, and for 
                             other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of <<NOTE: Transportation 
Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) 
Act.>> Representatives of the United States of America in Congress 
assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 49 USC 30101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation Recall Enhancement, 
Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 49 USC 30118 and note.>> PRESERVATION OF SECTION 30118.

    The amendments made to section 30118 of title 49, United States 
Code, by section 364 of the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 are repealed and such section shall be 
effective as if such amending section had not been enacted.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Defects in Foreign Countries.--Section 30166 of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(l) Reporting of Defects in Motor Vehicles and Products in Foreign 
Countries.--
            ``(1) Reporting of defects, manufacturer determination.--Not 
        later than 5 working days after determining to conduct a safety 
        recall or other safety campaign in a foreign country on a motor 
        vehicle or motor vehicle equipment that is identical or 
        substantially similar to a motor vehicle or motor vehicle 
        equipment offered for sale in the United States, the 
        manufacturer shall report the determination to the Secretary.
            ``(2) Reporting of defects, foreign government 
        determination.--Not later than 5 working days after receiving 
        notification that the government of a foreign country has 
        determined that a safety recall or other safety campaign must be 
        conducted in the foreign country on a motor vehicle or motor 
        vehicle equipment that is identical or substantially similar to 
        a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment offered for sale in 
        the United States, the manufacturer of the motor vehicle or 
        motor vehicle equipment shall report the determination to the 
        Secretary.
            ``(3) Reporting requirements.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
        the contents of the notification required by this subsection.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1801]]

    (b) Early Warning Reporting Requirements.--Section 30166 of title 
49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(m) Early Warning Reporting Requirements.--
            ``(1) Rulemaking required.--Not later than 120 days after 
        the date of the enactment of the Transportation Recall 
        Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (TREAD) Act, the 
        Secretary shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding to establish 
        early warning reporting requirements for manufacturers of motor 
        vehicles and motor vehicle equipment to enhance the Secretary's 
        ability to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
            ``(2) Deadline.--The Secretary shall issue a final rule 
        under paragraph (1) not later than June 30, 2002.
            ``(3) Reporting elements.--
                    ``(A) Warranty and claims data.--As part of the 
                final rule promulgated under paragraph (1), the 
                Secretary shall require manufacturers of motor vehicles 
                and motor vehicle equipment to report, periodically or 
                upon request by the Secretary, information which is 
                received by the manufacturer derived from foreign and 
                domestic sources to the extent that such information may 
                assist in the identification of defects related to motor 
                vehicle safety in motor vehicles and motor vehicle 
                equipment in the United States and which concerns--
                          ``(i) data on claims submitted to the 
                      manufacturer for serious injuries (including 
                      death) and aggregate statistical data on property 
                      damage from alleged defects in a motor vehicle or 
                      in motor vehicle equipment; or
                          ``(ii) customer satisfaction campaigns, 
                      consumer advisories, recalls, or other activity 
                      involving the repair or replacement of motor 
                      vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment.
                    ``(B) Other data.--As part of the final rule 
                promulgated under paragraph (1), the Secretary may, to 
                the extent that such information may assist in the 
                identification of defects related to motor vehicle 
                safety in motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment in 
                the United States, require manufacturers of motor 
                vehicles or motor vehicle equipment to report, 
                periodically or upon request of the Secretary, such 
                information as the Secretary may request.
                    ``(C) <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>>  Reporting of 
                possible defects.--The manufacturer of a motor vehicle 
                or motor vehicle equipment shall report to the 
                Secretary, in such manner as the Secretary establishes 
                by regulation, all incidents of which the manufacturer 
                receives actual notice which involve fatalities or 
                serious injuries which are alleged or proven to have 
                been caused by a possible defect in such manufacturer's 
                motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment in the United 
                States, or in a foreign country when the possible defect 
                is in a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment that is 
                identical or substantially similar to a motor vehicle or 
                motor vehicle equipment offered for sale in the United 
                States.
            ``(4) Handling and utilization of reporting elements.--
                    ``(A) Secretary's specifications.--In requiring the 
                reporting of any information requested by the Secretary

[[Page 114 STAT. 1802]]

                under this subsection, the Secretary shall specify in 
                the final rule promulgated under paragraph (1)--
                          ``(i) how such information will be reviewed 
                      and utilized to assist in the identification of 
                      defects related to motor vehicle safety;
                          ``(ii) the systems and processes the Secretary 
                      will employ or establish to review and utilize 
                      such information; and
                          ``(iii) the manner and form of reporting such 
                      information, including in electronic form.
                    ``(B) Information in possession of manufacturer.--
                The regulations promulgated by the Secretary under 
                paragraph (1) may not require a manufacturer of a motor 
                vehicle or motor vehicle equipment to maintain or submit 
                records respecting information not in the possession of 
                the manufacturer.
                    ``(C) Disclosure.--None of the information collected 
                pursuant to the final rule promulgated under paragraph 
                (1) shall be disclosed pursuant to section 30167(b) 
                unless the Secretary determines the disclosure of such 
                information will assist in carrying out sections 
                30117(b) and 30118 through 30121.
                    ``(D) Burdensome requirements.--In promulgating the 
                final rule under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not 
                impose requirements unduly burdensome to a manufacturer 
                of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment, taking 
                into account the manufacturer's cost of complying with 
                such requirements and the Secretary's ability to use the 
                information sought in a meaningful manner to assist in 
                the identification of defects related to motor vehicle 
                safety.
            ``(5) <<NOTE: Procedures.>>  Periodic review.--As part of 
        the final rule promulgated pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall specify procedures for the periodic review and 
        update of such rule.''.

    (c) Sale or Lease of Defective or Noncompliant Tire.--Section 30166 
of title 49, United States Code, as amended by subsection (b), is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) Sale or Lease of Defective or Noncompliant Tire.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>>  In general.--The 
        Secretary shall, within 90 days of the date of the enactment of 
        the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and 
        Documentation (TREAD) Act, issue a final rule requiring any 
        person who knowingly and willfully sells or leases for use on a 
        motor vehicle a defective tire or a tire which is not compliant 
        with an applicable tire safety standard with actual knowledge 
        that the manufacturer of such tire has notified its dealers of 
        such defect or noncompliance as required under section 30118(c) 
        or as required by an order under section 30118(b) to report such 
        sale or lease to the Secretary.
            ``(2) Defect or noncompliance remedied or order not in 
        effect.--Regulations under paragraph (1) shall not require the 
        reporting described in paragraph (1) where before delivery under 
        a sale or lease of a tire--
                    ``(A) the defect or noncompliance of the tire is 
                remedied as required by section 30120; or
                    ``(B) notification of the defect or noncompliance is 
                required under section 30118(b) but enforcement of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1803]]

                order is restrained or the order is set aside in a civil 
                action to which section 30121(d) applies.''.

    (d) Insurance Study.--The Secretary of Transportation shall conduct 
a study to determine the feasibility and utility of obtaining aggregate 
information on a regular and periodic basis regarding claims made for 
private passenger automobile accidents from persons in the business of 
providing private passenger automobile insurance or of adjusting 
insurance claims for such automobiles. Not later than 120 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit the 
results of such study to the Committee on Commerce of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate.

SEC. 4. REMEDIES WITHOUT CHARGE.

    Section 30120(g)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by--
            (1) striking ``8 calendar years'' and inserting ``10 
        calendar years''; and
            (2) striking ``3 calendar years'' and inserting ``5 calendar 
        years''.

SEC. 5. PENALTIES.

    (a) Civil Penalties.--Section 30165(a) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Civil Penalties.--
            ``(1) In general.--A person that violates any of section 
        30112, 30115, 30117 through 30122, 30123(d), 30125(c), 30127, or 
        30141 through 30147, or a regulation prescribed thereunder, is 
        liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of 
        not more than $5,000 for each violation. A separate violation 
        occurs for each motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment 
        and for each failure or refusal to allow or perform an act 
        required by any of those sections. The maximum penalty under 
        this subsection for a related series of violations is 
        $15,000,000.
            ``(2) Section 30166.--A person who violates section 30166 or 
        a regulation prescribed under that section is liable to the 
        United States Government for a civil penalty for failing or 
        refusing to allow or perform an act required under that section 
        or regulation. The maximum penalty under this paragraph is 
        $5,000 per violation per day. The maximum penalty under this 
        paragraph for a related series of daily violations is 
        $15,000,000.''.

    (b) Criminal Penalties.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 301 of title 49, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:

``Sec. 30170. Criminal Penalties

    ``(a) Criminal Liability for Falsifying or Withholding 
Information.--
            ``(1) General rule.--A person who violates section 1001 of 
        title 18 with respect to the reporting requirements of section 
        30166, with the specific intention of misleading the Secretary 
        with respect to motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment safety 
        related defects that have caused death or serious bodily injury 
        to an individual (as defined in section 1365(g)(3) of title 18),

[[Page 114 STAT. 1804]]

        shall be subject to criminal penalties of a fine under title 18, 
        or imprisoned for not more than 15 years, or both.
            ``(2) Safe harbor to encourage reporting and for whistle 
        blowers.--
                    ``(A) Correction.--A person described in paragraph 
                (1) shall not be subject to criminal penalties under 
                this subsection if: (1) at the time of the violation, 
                such person does not know that the violation would 
                result in an accident causing death or serious bodily 
                injury; and (2) the person corrects any improper reports 
                or failure to report within a reasonable time.
                    ``(B) Reasonable time and sufficiency of 
                correction.--The Secretary shall establish 
                by <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>> regulation what 
                constitutes a reasonable time for the purposes of 
                subparagraph (A) and what manner of correction is 
                sufficient for purposes of subparagraph (A). 
                The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall issue a final 
                rule under this subparagraph within 90 days of the date 
                of the enactment of this section.
                    ``(C) Effective date.--Subsection (a) shall not take 
                effect before the final rule under subparagraph (B) 
                takes effect.

    ``(b) Coordination with Department of Justice.--The Attorney General 
may bring an action, or initiate grand jury proceedings, for a violation 
of subsection (a) only at the request of the Secretary of 
Transportation.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The subchapter analysis for 
        subchapter IV of chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

``30170. Criminal penalties.''.

SEC. 6. ACCELERATION OF MANUFACTURER REMEDY PROGRAM.

    (a) Remedy Program.--Section 30120(c) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting at the end thereof the following:
    ``(3) If the Secretary determines that a manufacturer's remedy 
program is not likely to be capable of completion within a reasonable 
time, the Secretary may require the manufacturer to accelerate the 
remedy program if the Secretary finds--
            ``(A) that there is a risk of serious injury or death if the 
        remedy program is not accelerated; and
            ``(B) that acceleration of the remedy program can be 
        reasonably achieved by expanding the sources of replacement 
        parts, expanding the number of authorized repair facilities, or 
        both.

The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out this paragraph.''.
    (b) Reimbursement Prior to Recall.--Section 30120(d) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting at the end thereof the 
following: ``A manufacturer's remedy program shall include a plan for 
reimbursing an owner or purchaser who incurred the cost of the remedy 
within a reasonable time in advance of the manufacturer's notification 
under subsection (b) or (c) of section 30118. The Secretary may 
prescribe regulations establishing what constitutes a reasonable time 
for purposes of the preceding sentence and other reasonable conditions 
for the reimbursement plan.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1805]]

SEC. 7. SALES OF REPLACED TIRES.

    Section 30120(d) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``In the case of a remedy program 
involving the replacement of tires, the manufacturer shall include a 
plan addressing how to prevent, to the extent reasonably within the 
control of the manufacturer, replaced tires from being resold for 
installation on a motor vehicle, and how to limit, to the extent 
reasonably within the control of the manufacturer, the disposal of 
replaced tires in landfills, particularly through shredding, crumbling, 
recycling, recovery, and other alternative beneficial non-vehicular 
uses. The manufacturer shall include information about the 
implementation of such plan with each quarterly report to the Secretary 
regarding the progress of any notification or remedy campaigns.''.

SEC. 8. SALES OF REPLACED EQUIPMENT.

    Section 30120 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``( j) Prohibition on Sales of Replaced Equipment.--No person may 
sell or lease any motor vehicle equipment (including a tire), for 
installation on a motor vehicle, that is the subject of a decision under 
section 30118(b) or a notice required under section 30118(c) in a 
condition that it may be reasonably used for its original purpose 
unless--
            ``(1) the defect or noncompliance is remedied as required by 
        this section before delivery under the sale or lease; or
            ``(2) notification of the defect or noncompliance is 
        required under section 30118(b) but enforcement of the order is 
        set aside in a civil action to which section 30121(d) 
        applies.''.

SEC. 9. CERTIFICATION LABEL.

    Section 30115 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before ``A manufacturer'' and by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(b) Certification Label.--In the case of the certification label 
affixed by an intermediate or final stage manufacturer of a motor 
vehicle built in more than 1 stage, each intermediate or final stage 
manufacturer shall certify with respect to each applicable Federal motor 
vehicle safety standard--
            ``(1) that it has complied with the specifications set forth 
        in the compliance documentation provided by the incomplete motor 
        vehicle manufacturer in accordance with regulations prescribed 
        by the Secretary; or
            ``(2) that it has elected to assume responsibility for 
        compliance with that standard.

If the intermediate or final stage manufacturer elects to assume 
responsibility for compliance with the standard covered by the 
documentation provided by an incomplete motor vehicle manufacturer, the 
intermediate or final stage manufacturer shall notify the incomplete 
motor vehicle manufacturer in writing within a reasonable time of 
affixing the certification label. A violation of this subsection shall 
not be subject to a civil penalty under section 30165.''.

SEC. 10. ENDURANCE AND RESISTANCE STANDARDS FOR TIRES.

    The <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>> Secretary of Transportation 
shall conduct a rulemaking to revise and update the tire standards 
published at 49 CFR 571.109

[[Page 114 STAT. 1806]]

and 49 CFR 571.119. The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall complete the 
rulemaking under this section not later than June 1, 2002.

SEC. 11. <<NOTE: 49 USC 30123 note.>> IMPROVED TIRE INFORMATION.

    (a) Tire Labeling.--Within <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> 30 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of <<NOTE: Rules and 
regulations.>> Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding to 
improve the labeling of tires required by section 30123 of title 49, 
United States Code to assist consumers in identifying tires that may be 
the subject of a decision under section 30118(b) or a notice required 
under section 30118(c). The Secretary shall complete the rulemaking not 
later than June 1, 2002.

    (b) Inflation Levels and Load Limits.--In the rulemaking initiated 
under subsection (a), the Secretary may take whatever additional action 
is appropriate to ensure that the public is aware of the importance of 
observing motor vehicle tire load limits and maintaining proper tire 
inflation levels for the safe operation of a motor vehicle. Such 
additional action may include a requirement that the manufacturer of 
motor vehicles provide the purchasers of the motor vehicles information 
on appropriate tire inflation levels and load limits if the Secretary 
determines that requiring such manufacturers to provide such information 
is the most appropriate way such information can be provided.

SEC. 12. ROLLOVER TESTS.

    Section 30117 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) Rollover Tests.--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Development.--Not later than 2 
        years from the date of the enactment of this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) develop a dynamic test on rollovers by motor 
                vehicles for the purposes of a consumer information 
                program; and
                    ``(B) carry out a program of conducting such tests.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>>  Test results.--As 
        the Secretary develops a test under paragraph (1)(A), the 
        Secretary shall conduct a rulemaking to determine how best to 
        disseminate test results to the public.
            ``(3) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Motor vehicles covered.--
        This subsection applies to motor vehicles, including passenger 
        cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, and trucks, with a gross 
        vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less. A motor vehicle 
        designed to provide temporary residential accommodations is not 
        covered.''.

SEC. 13. <<NOTE: Deadlines. Rules and regulations. 49 USC 30123 
            note.>> TIRE PRESSURE WARNING.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall complete a rulemaking for a 
regulation to require a warning system in new motor vehicles to indicate 
to the operator when a tire is significantly under inflated. 
Such <<NOTE: Effective date.>> requirement shall become effective not 
later than 2 years after the date of the completion of such rulemaking.

SEC. 14. <<NOTE: Deadlines. 49 USC 30127 note.>> IMPROVING THE SAFETY OF 
            CHILD RESTRAINTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>>  In General.--Not later than 12 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking for the purpose of improving 
the safety of child restraints, including minimizing head injuries from 
side impact collisions.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1807]]

    (b) Elements for Consideration.--In the rulemaking required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider--
            (1) whether to require more comprehensive tests for child 
        restraints than the current Federal motor vehicle safety 
        standards requires, including the use of dynamic tests that--
                    (A) replicate an array of crash conditions, such as 
                side-impact crashes and rear-impact crashes; and
                    (B) reflect the designs of passenger motor vehicles 
                as of the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) whether to require the use of anthropomorphic test 
        devices that--
                    (A) represent a greater range of sizes of children 
                including the need to require the use of an 
                anthropomorphic test device that is representative of a 
                ten-year-old child; and
                    (B) are Hybrid III anthropomorphic test devices;
            (3) whether to require improved protection from head 
        injuries in side-impact and rear-impact crashes;
            (4) how to provide consumer information on the physical 
        compatibility of child restraints and vehicle seats on a model-
        by-model basis;
            (5) whether to prescribe clearer and simpler labels and 
        instructions required to be placed on child restraints;
            (6) whether to amend Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 
        No. 213 (49 CFR 571.213) to cover restraints for children 
        weighing up to 80 pounds;
            (7) whether to establish booster seat performance and 
        structural integrity requirements to be dynamically tested in 3-
        point lap and shoulder belts;
            (8) whether to apply scaled injury criteria performance 
        levels, including neck injury, developed for Federal Motor 
        Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 to child restraints and booster 
        seats covered by in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 
        213; and
            (9) whether to include child restraint in each vehicle crash 
        tested under the New Car Assessment Program.

    (c) Report to Congress.--If the Secretary does not incorporate any 
element described in subsection (b) in the final rule, the Secretary 
shall explain, in a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on 
Commerce submitted within 30 days after issuing the final rule, 
specifically why the Secretary did not incorporate any such element in 
the final rule.
    (d) Completion.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary shall complete the rulemaking required by subsection (a) not 
later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Child Restraint Defined.--In this section, the term ``child 
restraint'' has the meaning given the term ``Child restraint system'' in 
section 571.213 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect 
on the date of the enactment of this Act).
    (f ) Funding.--For each fiscal year, of the funds made available to 
the Secretary for activities relating to safety, not less than $750,000 
shall be made available to carry out crash testing of child restraints.
    (g) <<NOTE: Notice.>>  Child Restraint Safety Ratings Program.--No 
later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary

[[Page 114 STAT. 1808]]

of Transportation shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to 
establish a child restraint safety rating consumer information program 
to provide practicable, readily understandable, and timely information 
to consumers for use in making informed decisions in the purchase of 
child restraints. No later than <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>> 24 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary shall 
issue a final rule establishing a child restraint safety rating program 
and providing other consumer information which the Secretary determines 
would be useful consumers who purchase child restraint systems.

    (h) Booster Seat Study.--In addition to consideration of booster 
seat performance and structural integrity contained in subsection 
(b)(7), not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate and complete a 
study, taking into account the views of the public, on the use and 
effectiveness of automobile booster seats for children, compiling 
information on the advantages and disadvantages of using booster seats 
and determining the benefits, if any, to children from use of booster 
with lap and shoulder belts compared to children using lap and shoulder 
belts alone, and submit a report on the results of that study to the 
Congress.
    (i) Booster Seat Education Program.--The Secretary of Transportation 
within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act shall develop 
5 year strategic plan to reduce deaths and injuries caused by failure to 
use the appropriate booster seat in the 4 to 8 year old age group by 25 
percent.

SEC. 15. <<NOTE: Deadlines. 49 USC 30111 note.>> IMPROVING CRITERIA USED 
            IN A RECALL.

    (a) Review of Standards and Criteria Used in Opening a Defect or 
Noncompliance Investigation.--The Secretary shall, not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, undertake a 
comprehensive review of all standards, criteria, procedures, and 
methods, including data management and analysis used by the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration in determining whether to open a 
defect or noncompliance investigation pursuant to subchapter II or IV of 
chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, and shall undertake such 
steps as may be necessary to update and improve such standards, 
criteria, procedures, or methods, including data management and 
analysis.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report describing the 
Secretary's findings and actions under subsection (a).

SEC. 16. <<NOTE: Deadline. 49 USC 30115 note.>> FOLLOW-UP REPORT.

    One year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall report to the Congress on the implementation of 
the amendments made by this Act and any recommendations for additional 
amendments for consumer safety.

SEC. 17. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    In addition to any sums authorized to be appropriated by section 
30104 or 32102 of title 49, United States Code, there is authorized to 
be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration for fiscal year 2001 $9,100,000 to 
carry out this Act and the amendments

[[Page 114 STAT. 1809]]

made by this Act. Such funds shall not be available for the general 
administrative expenses of the Secretary or the Administration.

    Approved November 1, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5164 (S. 3059):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-954 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-423 accompanying S. 3059 (Comm. on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 11, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Nov. 1, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>