[106th Congress Public Law 156]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ156.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1741]]

Public Law 106-156
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 2632]>>  designate certain Federal 
 lands in the Talladega National Forest in the State of Alabama as the 
                       Dugger Mountain Wilderness.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United <<NOTE: Dugger Mountain Wilderness Act of 1999.>>  States of 
America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Dugger Mountain Wilderness Act of 
1999''.

SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF DUGGER MOUNTAIN WILDERNESS, ALABAMA.

    (a) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>>  Designation.--In furtherance of the 
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain Federal 
lands in the Talladega National Forest in the State of Alabama, which 
comprise approximately 9,200 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
entitled ``Proposed Dugger Mountain Wilderness'' and dated July 2, 1999, 
are hereby designated as wilderness and, therefore, as a component of 
the National Wilderness Preservation System, and shall be known as the 
Dugger Mountain Wilderness.

    (b) Map and Description.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to 
Congress a map and a boundary description of the area designated as 
wilderness by this section. The map and description shall have the same 
force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary 
may correct clerical and typographical errors in the map and 
description. A copy of the map and description shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest 
Service and in the office of the Supervisor of National Forest System 
lands in Alabama.
    (c) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, lands designated 
as wilderness by this section shall be managed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act 
governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that, with 
respect to the wilderness area designated by this section, any reference 
in the Wilderness Act to the effective date of the Wilderness Act shall 
be deemed to be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Treatment <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  of Dugger Mountain Fire Tower.--
The Forest Service shall have 2 years, beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, in which to use ground-based mechanical and 
motorized equipment to disassemble and remove from the wilderness area 
designated by this section the Dugger Mountain fire tower, which has 
been scheduled for removal by the Forest Service, and any supporting 
structures. The road to the fire tower shall be open to motorized 
vehicles during this period only for

[[Page 113 STAT. 1742]]

the purpose of removing the tower and supporting structures, after which 
time the road shall be permanently closed to motorized use. The Forest 
Service shall follow the provisions of the National Historic 
Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) in the determination and 
execution of the removal of the tower and supporting structures.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2632 (S. 1843):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-422, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Nov. 1, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>