[106th Congress Public Law 373]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ373.106]

Public Law 106-373
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to revise and improve 
       provisions relating to famine prevention and freedom from 
            hunger. <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 2000 -  [H. R. 4002]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Famine 
Prevention and Freedom From Hunger Improvement Act of 2000.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Famine Prevention and Freedom From 
Hunger Improvement Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Declarations of Policy.--(1) The first sentence of section 
296(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(a)) is 
amended to read as follows: ``The Congress declares that, in order to 
achieve the mutual goals among nations of ensuring food security, human 
health, agricultural growth, trade expansion, and the wise and 
sustainable use of natural resources, the United States should mobilize 
the capacities of the United States land-grant universities, other 
eligible universities, and public and private partners of universities 
in the United States and other countries, consistent with sections 103 
and 103A of this Act, for: (1) global research on problems affecting 
food, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries; (2) improved human capacity 
and institutional resource development for the global application of 
agricultural and related environmental sciences; (3) agricultural 
development and trade research and extension services in the United 
States and other countries to support the entry of rural industries into 
world markets; and (4) providing for the application of agricultural 
sciences to solving food, health, nutrition, rural income, and 
environmental problems, especially such problems in low-income, food 
deficit countries.''.
    (2) The second sentence of section 296(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(a)) is amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (7) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (G), respectively;
            (B) in subparagraph (A) (as redesignated), by striking ``in 
        this country'' and inserting ``with and through the private 
        sector in this country and to understanding processes of 
        economic development'';
            (C) in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated), to read as 
        follows:
            ``(B) that land-grant and other universities in the United 
        States have demonstrated over many years their ability to 
        cooperate with international agencies, educational and research 
        institutions in other countries, the private sector, and 
        nongovernmental organizations worldwide, in expanding global 
        agricultural production, processing, business and trade, to the 
        benefit of aid recipient countries and of the United States;'';
            (D) in subparagraph (C) (as redesignated), to read as 
        follows:
            ``(C) that, in a world of growing populations with rising 
        expectations, increased food production and improved 
        distribution, storage, and marketing in the developing countries 
        is necessary not only to prevent hunger and ensure human health 
        and child survival, but to build the basis for economic growth 
        and trade, and the social security in which democracy and a 
        market economy can thrive, and moreover, that the greatest 
        potential for increasing world food supplies and incomes to 
        purchase food is in the developing countries where the gap 
        between food need and food supply is the greatest and current 
        incomes are lowest;'';
            (E) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (G) (as redesignated);
            (F) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (F) (as 
        redesignated);
            (G) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); 
        and
            (H) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
            ``(E) that, with expanding global markets and increasing 
        imports into many countries, including the United States, food 
        safety and quality, as well as secure supply, have emerged as 
        mutual concerns of all countries;
            ``(F) that research, teaching, and extension activities, and 
        appropriate institutional and policy development therefore are 
        prime factors in improving agricultural production, food 
        distribution, processing, storage, and marketing abroad (as well 
        as in the United States);'';
            (I) in subparagraph (G) (as redesignated), by striking ``in 
        the United States'' and inserting ``and the broader economy of 
        the United States''; and
            (J) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(H) that there is a need to responsibly manage the world's 
        agricultural and natural resources for sustained productivity, 
        health and resilience to climate variability; and
            ``(I) that universities and public and private partners of 
        universities need a dependable source of funding in order to 
        increase the impact of their own investments and those of their 
        State governments and constituencies, in order to continue and 
        expand their efforts to advance agricultural development in 
        cooperating countries, to translate development into economic 
        growth and trade for the United States and cooperating 
        countries, and to prepare future teachers, researchers, 
        extension specialists, entrepreneurs, managers, and 
        decisionmakers for the world economy.''.

    (b) Additional Declarations of Policy.--Section 296(b) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(b)) is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(b) Accordingly, the Congress declares that, in order to prevent 
famine and establish freedom from hunger, the following components must 
be brought together in a coordinated program to increase world food and 
fiber production, agricultural trade, and responsible management of 
natural resources, including--
            ``(1) continued efforts by the international agricultural 
        research centers and other international research entities to 
        provide a global network, including United States universities, 
        for international scientific collaboration on crops, livestock, 
        forests, fisheries, farming resources, and food systems of 
        worldwide importance;
            ``(2) contract research and the implementation of 
        collaborative research support programs and other research 
        collaboration led by United States universities, and involving 
        research systems in other countries focused on crops, livestock, 
        forests, fisheries, farming resources, and food systems, with 
        benefits to the United States and partner countries;
            ``(3) broadly disseminating the benefits of global 
        agricultural research and development including increased 
        benefits for United States agriculturally related industries 
        through establishment of development and trade information and 
        service centers, for rural as well as urban communities, through 
        extension, cooperatively with, and supportive of, existing 
        public and private trade and development related organizations;
            ``(4) facilitation of participation by universities and 
        public and private partners of universities in programs of 
        multilateral banks and agencies which receive United States 
        funds;
            ``(5) expanding learning opportunities about global 
        agriculture for students, teachers, community leaders, 
        entrepreneurs, and the general public through international 
        internships and exchanges, graduate assistantships, faculty 
        positions, and other means of education and extension through 
        long-term recurring Federal funds matched by State funds; and
            ``(6) competitive grants through universities to United 
        States agriculturalists and public and private partners of 
        universities from other countries for research, institution and 
        policy development, extension, training, and other programs for 
        global agricultural development, trade, and responsible 
        management of natural resources.''.

    (c) Sense of the Congress.--Section 296(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``each component'' and 
        inserting ``each of the program components described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (b)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and public and private partners 
                of universities'' after ``for the universities''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and public and private partners 
                of universities'' after ``such universities'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``, and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking the comma at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (D) by striking the matter following subparagraph 
                (B); and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) multilateral banks and agencies receiving 
                United States funds;
                    ``(D) development agencies of other countries; and
                    ``(E) United States Government foreign assistance 
                and economic cooperation programs;''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) generally engage the United States university 
        community more extensively in the agricultural research, trade, 
        and development initiatives undertaken outside the United 
        States, with the objectives of strengthening its capacity to 
        carry out research, teaching, and extension activities for 
        solving problems in food production, processing, marketing, and 
        consumption in agriculturally developing nations, and for 
        transforming progress in global agricultural research and 
        development into economic growth, trade, and trade benefits for 
        aid recipient countries and United States communities and 
        industries, and for the wise use of natural resources; and
            ``(5) ensure that all federally funded support to 
        universities and public and private partners of universities 
        relating to the goals of this title is periodically reviewed for 
        its performance.''.

    (d) Definition of Universities.--Section 296(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(d)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``sea-grant colleges;'' the 
        following: ``Native American land-grant colleges as authorized 
        under the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 
        U.S.C. 301 note);''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``extension'' and 
        inserting ``extension (including outreach)''.

    (e) Definition of Administrator.--Section 296(e) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a(e)) is amended by inserting 
``United States'' before ``Agency''.
    (f ) Definition of Public and Private Partners of Universities.--
Section 296 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f ) As used in this title, the term `public and private partners 
of universities' includes entities that have cooperative or contractual 
agreements with universities, which may include formal or informal 
associations of universities, other education institutions, United 
States Government and State agencies, private voluntary organizations, 
nongovernmental organizations, firms operated for profit, nonprofit 
organizations, multinational banks, and, as designated by the 
Administrator, any organization, institution, or agency incorporated in 
other countries.''.
    (g) Definition of Agriculture.--Section 296 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(g) As used in this title, the term `agriculture' includes the 
science and practice of activity related to food, feed, and fiber 
production, processing, marketing, distribution, utilization, and trade, 
and also includes family and consumer sciences, nutrition, food science 
and engineering, agricultural economics and other social sciences, 
forestry, wildlife, fisheries, aquaculture, floraculture, veterinary 
medicine, and other environmental and natural resources sciences.''.
    (h) Definition of Agriculturists.--Section 296 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220a) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(h) As used in this title, the term `agriculturists' includes 
farmers, herders, and livestock producers, individuals who fish and 
others employed in cultivating and harvesting food resources from salt 
and fresh waters, individuals who cultivate trees and shrubs and harvest 
nontimber forest products, as well as the processors, managers, 
teachers, extension specialists, researchers, policymakers, and others 
who are engaged in the food, feed, and fiber system and its 
relationships to natural resources.''.

SEC. 3. GENERAL AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authorization of Assistance.--Section 297(a) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220b(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), to read as follows:
            ``(1) to implement program components through United States 
        universities as authorized by paragraphs (2) through (5) of this 
        subsection;'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), to read as follows:
            ``(3) to provide long-term program support for United States 
        university global agricultural and related environmental 
        collaborative research and learning opportunities for students, 
        teachers, extension specialists, researchers, and the general 
        public;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by inserting ``United States'' before 
                ``universities'';
                    (B) by inserting ``agricultural'' before ``research 
                centers''; and
                    (C) by striking ``and the institutions of 
                agriculturally developing nations'' and inserting 
                ``multilateral banks, the institutions of agriculturally 
                developing nations, and United States and foreign 
                nongovernmental organizations supporting extension and 
                other productivity-enhancing programs''.

    (b) Requirements.--Section 297(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220b(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``universities'' and inserting ``United States 
                universities with public and private partners of 
                universities''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                          (i) by inserting ``, environment,'' before 
                      ``and related''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``farmers and farm families'' 
                      and inserting ``agriculturalists'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, including resources 
        of the private sector,'' after ``Federal or State resources''; 
        and
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and the United States 
        Department of Agriculture'' and all that follows and inserting 
        ``, the Department of Agriculture, State agricultural agencies, 
        the Department of Commerce, the Department of the Interior, the 
        Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of the United States 
        Trade Representative, the Food and Drug Administration, other 
        appropriate Federal agencies, and appropriate nongovernmental 
        and business organizations.''.

    (c) Further Requirements.--Section 297(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220b(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), to read as follows:
            ``(2) focus primarily on the needs of agricultural 
        producers, rural families, processors, traders, consumers, and 
        natural resources managers;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), to read as follows:
            ``(4) be carried out within the developing countries and 
        transition countries comprising newly emerging democracies and 
        newly liberalized economies; and''.

    (d) Special Programs.--Section 297 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220b) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) The Administrator shall establish and carry out special 
programs under this title as part of ongoing programs for child 
survival, democratization, development of free enterprise, environmental 
and natural resource management, and other related programs.''.

SEC. 4. BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--Section 298(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220c(a)) is amended in the third sentence, by inserting 
at the end before the period the following: ``on a case-by-case basis''.
    (b) General Areas of Responsibility of the Board.--Section 298(b) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220c(b)) is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(b) The Board's general areas of responsibility shall include 
participating in the planning, development, and implementation of, 
initiating recommendations for, and monitoring, the activities described 
in section 297 of this title.''.
    (c) Duties of the Board.--Section 298(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220c(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``increase food 
                production'' and all that follows and inserting the 
                following: ``improve agricultural production, trade, and 
                natural resource management in developing countries, and 
                with private organizations seeking to increase 
                agricultural production and trade, natural resources 
                management, and household food security in developing 
                and transition countries;''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before 
                ``sciences'' the following: ``, environmental, and 
                related social'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), after ``Administrator and 
        universities'' insert ``and their partners'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), after ``universities'' insert ``and 
        public and private partners of universities'';
            (4) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (5) in paragraph (7), by striking ``in the developing 
        nations.'' and inserting ``and natural resource issues in the 
        developing nations, assuring efficiency in use of Federal 
        resources, including in accordance with the Governmental 
        Performance and Results Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-62; 107 
        Stat. 285), and the amendments made by that Act;''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) developing information exchanges and consulting 
        regularly with nongovernmental organizations, consumer groups, 
        producers, agribusinesses and associations, agricultural 
        cooperatives and commodity groups, State departments of 
        agriculture, State agricultural research and extension agencies, 
        and academic institutions;
            ``(9) investigating and resolving issues concerning 
        implementation of this title as requested by universities; and
            ``(10) advising the Administrator on any and all issues as 
        requested.''.

    (d) Subordinate Units.--Section 298(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220c(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Research'' and insert ``Policy'';
                    (B) by striking ``administration'' and inserting 
                ``design''; and
                    (C) by striking ``section 297(a)(3) of this title'' 
                and inserting ``section 297''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``Joint Committee on Country 
                Programs'' and inserting ``Joint Operations Committee''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``which shall assist'' and all that 
                follows and inserting ``which shall assist in and advise 
                on the mechanisms and processes for implementation of 
                activities described in section 297.''.

SEC. 5. ANNUAL REPORT.

    Section 300 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2220e) 
is amended by striking ``April 1'' and inserting ``September 1''.

    Approved October 27, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4002:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 24, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 4, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 12, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>