[106th Congress Public Law 87]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ087.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1301]]

Public Law 106-87
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To reauthorize a comprehensive program of support for victims of 
             torture. <<NOTE: Nov. 3, 1999 -  [H.R. 2367]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Torture Victims Relief 
Reauthorization Act of 1999.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>>  TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Torture Victims Relief 
Reauthorization Act of 1999''.

SEC. 2. FOREIGN TREATMENT CENTERS FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Of the amounts authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal years 2001, 2002, and 2003 pursuant to 
chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, there are 
authorized to be appropriated to the President $10,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2001, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, and $10,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2003 to carry out section 130 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
section shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 3. DOMESTIC TREATMENT CENTERS FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Of the amounts authorized to 
be appropriated for the Department of Health and Human Services for 
fiscal years 2001, 2002, and 2003, there are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out subsection (a) of section 5 of the Torture 
Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 2152) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 
2001, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 
2003.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to this 
section shall remain available until expended.

SEC. 4. MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal years 2001, 2002, and 2003 for ``Voluntary Contributions to 
International Organizations'' pursuant to chapter 3 of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, there are authorized to be appropriated 
for a United States contribution to the United Nations Voluntary Fund 
for Victims of Torture (in this section referred to as the ``Fund'') the 
following amounts for the following fiscal years:
            (1) Fiscal year 2001.--For fiscal year 2001, $5,000,000.
            (2) Fiscal year 2002.--For fiscal year 2002, $5,000,000.
            (3) Fiscal year 2003.--For fiscal year 2003, $5,000,000.

    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 113 STAT. 1302]]

    (c) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
President, acting through the United States Permanent Representative to 
the United Nations, should--
            (1) request the Fund--
                    (A) to find new ways to support and protect 
                treatment centers and programs that are carrying out 
                rehabilitative services for victims of torture; and
                    (B) to encourage the development of new such centers 
                and programs;
            (2) use the voice and vote of the United States to support 
        the work of the Special Rapporteur on Torture and the Committee 
        Against Torture established under the Convention Against Torture 
        and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; 
        and
            (3) use the voice and vote of the United States to establish 
        a country rapporteur or similar procedural mechanism to 
        investigate human rights violations in a country if either the 
        Special Rapporteur or the Committee Against Torture indicates 
        that a systematic practice of torture is prevalent in that 
        country.

SEC. 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    Not later <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  than 90 days after the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives on the specialized training 
for foreign service officers required by section 7 of the Torture 
Victims Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-320). The report shall 
include detailed information regarding--
            (1) efforts by the Department of State to implement the 
        specialized training requirement;
            (2) the curriculum that is being used in the specialized 
        training;
            (3) the number of foreign service officers who have received 
        the specialized training as of the date of the report; and
            (4) the nongovernmental organizations that have been 
        involved in the development of the specialized training 
        curriculum or in providing the specialized training, and the 
        nature and extent of that involvement.

SEC. 6. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE SECOND SECTION 129 OF THE 
            FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961.

    (a) Amendment to Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--The second section 
129 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by section 4(a) of 
the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-320), 
is <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152.>>  redesignated as section 130.

    (b) Amendment to Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998.--Section 
4(b)(1) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152 
note.>>  is amended by striking ``section 129 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, as added by subsection (a)'' and inserting ``section 130 of 
the Foreign


[[Page 113 STAT. 1303]]

Assistance Act of 1961 (as redesignated by section 6(a) of the Torture 
Victims Relief Reauthorization Act of 1999)''.

    Approved November 3, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2367:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Sept. 21, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 21, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>