[106th Congress Public Law 479]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ479.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2184]]

Public Law 106-479
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the Frederick Douglass Gardens, Inc., to establish a 
memorial and gardens on Department of the Interior lands in the District 
  of Columbia or its environs in honor and commemoration of Frederick 
            Douglass. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [H.R. 5331]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note.>>  
assembled,

SECTION 1. MEMORIAL AND GARDENS TO HONOR AND COMMEMORATE FREDERICK 
            DOUGLASS.

    (a) Memorial and Gardens Authorized.--The Frederick Douglass 
Gardens, Inc., is authorized to establish a memorial and gardens on 
lands under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
Interior in the District of Columbia or its environs in honor and 
commemoration of Frederick Douglass.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the Frederick Douglass memorial and gardens shall be in 
accordance with the Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.

    The Frederick Douglass Gardens, Inc., shall be solely responsible 
for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
establishment of the memorial and gardens. No Federal funds may be used 
to pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial and gardens.

SEC. 3. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.

    If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the 
memorial and gardens (including the maintenance and preservation amount 
required under section 8(b) of the Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 
1008(b)), or upon expiration of the authority for the memorial and 
gardens under section 10(b) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)), there 
remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the 
memorial and gardens, Frederick Douglass Gardens, Inc., shall transmit 
the amount of the balance to the


[[Page 114 STAT. 2185]]

Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the account provided for in 
section 8(b)(1) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 1008(b)(1)).

    Approved November 9, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5331:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 3, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>