[106th Congress Public Law 245]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ245.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 501]]

Public Law 106-245
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: July 10, 2000 -  [S. 1515]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Radiation 
Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 2011 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Radiation Exposure Compensation Act 
Amendments of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 2210 note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 
        note) recognized the responsibility of the Federal Government to 
        compensate individuals who were harmed by the mining of 
        radioactive materials or fallout from nuclear arms testing;
            (2) a congressional oversight hearing conducted by the 
        Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate 
        demonstrated that since enactment of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note), regulatory burdens have 
        made it too difficult for some deserving individuals to be 
        fairly and efficiently compensated;
            (3) reports of the Atomic Energy Commission and the National 
        Institute for Occupational Safety and Health testify to the need 
        to extend eligibility to States in which the Federal Government 
        sponsored uranium mining and milling from 1941 through 1971;
            (4) scientific data resulting from the enactment of the 
        Radiation Exposed Veterans Compensation Act of 1988 (38 U.S.C. 
        101 note), and obtained from the Committee on the Biological 
        Effects of Ionizing Radiations, and the President's Advisory 
        Committee on Human Radiation Experiments provide medical 
        validation for the extension of compensable radiogenic 
        pathologies;
            (5) above-ground uranium miners, millers and individuals who 
        transported ore should be fairly compensated, in a manner 
        similar to that provided for underground uranium miners, in 
        cases in which those individuals suffered disease or resultant 
        death, associated with radiation exposure, due to the failure of 
        the Federal Government to warn and otherwise help protect 
        citizens from the health hazards addressed by the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 2210 note); and
            (6) it should be the responsibility of the Federal 
        Government in partnership with State and local governments and

[[Page 114 STAT. 502]]

        appropriate healthcare organizations, to initiate and support 
        programs designed for the early detection, prevention and 
        education on radiogenic diseases in approved States to aid the 
        thousands of individuals adversely affected by the mining of 
        uranium and the testing of nuclear weapons for the Nation's 
        weapons arsenal.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO THE RADIATION EXPOSURE COMPENSATION ACT.

    (a) Claims Relating to Atmospheric Nuclear Testing.--Section 4(a)(1) 
of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Claims relating to leukemia.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An individual described in this 
                subparagraph shall receive an amount specified in 
                subparagraph (B) if the conditions described in 
                subparagraph (C) are met. An individual referred to in 
                the preceding sentence is an individual who--
                          ``(i)(I) was physically present in an affected 
                      area for a period of at least 1 year during the 
                      period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending 
                      on October 31, 1958;
                          ``(II) was physically present in the affected 
                      area for the period beginning on June 30, 1962, 
                      and ending on July 31, 1962; or
                          ``(III) participated onsite in a test 
                      involving the atmospheric detonation of a nuclear 
                      device; and
                          ``(ii) submits written documentation that such 
                      individual developed leukemia--
                                    ``(I) after the applicable period of 
                                physical presence described in subclause 
                                (I) or (II) of clause (i) or onsite 
                                participation described in clause 
                                (i)(III) (as the case may be); and
                                    ``(II) more that 2 years after first 
                                exposure to fallout.
                    ``(B) Amounts.--If the conditions described in 
                subparagraph (C) are met, an individual--
                          ``(i) who is described in subclause (I) or 
                      (II) of subparagraph (A)(i) shall receive $50,000; 
                      or
                          ``(ii) who is described in subclause (III) of 
                      subparagraph (A)(i) shall receive $75,000.
                    ``(C) Conditions.--The conditions described in this 
                subparagraph are as follows:
                          ``(i) Initial exposure occurred prior to age 
                      21.
                          ``(ii) The claim for a payment under 
                      subparagraph (B) is filed with the Attorney 
                      General by or on behalf of the individual.
                          ``(iii) The Attorney General determines, in 
                      accordance with section 6, that the claim meets 
                      the requirements of this Act.''.

    (b) Definitions.--Section 4(b) of the Radiation Exposure 
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A) by inserting ``Wayne, San 
                Juan,'' after ``Millard,''; and
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:

[[Page 114 STAT. 503]]

                    ``(C) in the State of Arizona, the counties of 
                Coconino, Yavapai, Navajo, Apache, and Gila; and''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``the onset of the disease was 
                between 2 and 30 years of first exposure,'' and 
                inserting ``the onset of the disease was at least 2 
                years after first exposure, lung cancer (other than in 
                situ lung cancer that is discovered during or after a 
                post-mortem exam),'';
                    (B) by striking ``(provided initial exposure 
                occurred by the age of 20)'' after ``thyroid'';
                    (C) by inserting ``male or'' before ``female 
                breast'';
                    (D) by striking ``(provided initial exposure 
                occurred prior to age 40)'' after ``female breast'';
                    (E) by striking ``(provided low alcohol consumption 
                and not a heavy smoker)'' after ``esophagus'';
                    (F) by striking ``(provided initial exposure 
                occurred before age 30)'' after ``stomach'';
                    (G) by striking ``(provided not a heavy smoker)'' 
                after ``pharynx'';
                    (H) by striking ``(provided not a heavy smoker and 
                low coffee consumption)'' after ``pancreas''; and
                    (I) by inserting ``salivary gland, urinary bladder, 
                brain, colon, ovary,'' after ``gall bladder,''.

    (c) Claims Relating to Uranium Mining.--
            (1) In general.--Section 5(a) of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended to read as 
        follows:

    ``(a) Eligibility of Individuals.--
            ``(1) In general.--An individual shall receive $100,000 for 
        a claim made under this Act if--
                    ``(A) that individual--
                          ``(i) was employed in a uranium mine or 
                      uranium mill (including any individual who was 
                      employed in the transport of uranium ore or 
                      vanadium-uranium ore from such mine or mill) 
                      located in Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, 
                      South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North 
                      Dakota, Oregon, and Texas at any time during the 
                      period beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on 
                      December 31, 1971; and
                          ``(ii)(I) was a miner exposed to 40 or more 
                      working level months of radiation and submits 
                      written medical documentation that the individual, 
                      after that exposure, developed lung cancer or a 
                      nonmalignant respiratory disease; or
                          ``(II) was a miller or ore transporter who 
                      worked for at least 1 year during the period 
                      described under clause (i) and submits written 
                      medical documentation that the individual, after 
                      that exposure, developed lung cancer or a 
                      nonmalignant respiratory disease or renal cancers 
                      and other chronic renal disease including 
                      nephritis and kidney tubal tissue injury;
                    ``(B) the claim for that payment is filed with the 
                Attorney General by or on behalf of that individual; and
                    ``(C) the Attorney General determines, in accordance 
                with section 6, that the claim meets the requirements of 
                this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 504]]

            ``(2) Inclusion <<NOTE: Applicability.>> of additional 
        states.--Paragraph (1)(A)(i) shall apply to a State, in addition 
        to the States named under such clause, if--
                    ``(A) an Atomic Energy Commission uranium mine was 
                operated in such State at any time during the period 
                beginning on January 1, 1942, and ending on December 31, 
                1971;
                    ``(B) the State submits an application to the 
                Department of Justice to include such State; and
                    ``(C) the Attorney General makes a determination to 
                include such State.
            ``(3) Payment requirement.--Each payment under this section 
        may be made only in accordance with section 6.''.
            (2) Definitions.--Section 5(b) of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' before 
                      ``corpulmonale''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``; and if the claimant,'' 
                      and all that follows through the end of the 
                      paragraph and inserting ``, silicosis, and 
                      pneumoconiosis;'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (4) and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) the term `written medical documentation' for purposes 
        of proving a nonmalignant respiratory disease or lung cancer 
        means, in any case in which the claimant is living--
                    ``(A)(i) an arterial blood gas study; or
                    ``(ii) a written diagnosis by a physician meeting 
                the requirements of subsection (c)(1); and
                    ``(B)(i) a chest x-ray administered in accordance 
                with standard techniques and the interpretive reports of 
                a maximum of two National Institute of Occupational 
                Health and Safety certified `B' readers classifying the 
                existence of the nonmalignant respiratory disease of 
                category 1/0 or higher according to a 1989 report of the 
                International Labor Office (known as the `ILO'), or 
                subsequent revisions;
                    ``(ii) high resolution computed tomography scans 
                (commonly known as `HRCT scans') (including computer 
                assisted tomography scans (commonly known as `CAT 
                scans'), magnetic resonance imaging scans (commonly 
                known as `MRI scans'), and positron emission tomography 
                scans (commonly known as `PET scans')) and interpretive 
                reports of such scans;
                    ``(iii) pathology reports of tissue biopsies; or
                    ``(iv) pulmonary function tests indicating 
                restrictive lung function, as defined by the American 
                Thoracic Society;
            ``(6) the term `lung cancer'--
                    ``(A) means any physiological condition of the lung, 
                trachea, or bronchus that is recognized as lung cancer 
                by the National Cancer Institute; and
                    ``(B) includes in situ lung cancers;
            ``(7) the term `uranium mine' means any underground 
        excavation, including `dog holes', as well as open pit, strip, 
        rim, surface, or other aboveground mines, where uranium ore or 
        vanadium-uranium ore was mined or otherwise extracted; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 505]]

            ``(8) the term `uranium mill' includes milling operations 
        involving the processing of uranium ore or vanadium-uranium ore, 
        including both carbonate and acid leach plants.''.
            (3) Written documentation.--Section 5 of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

    ``(c) Written Documentation.--
            ``(1) Diagnosis alternative to arterial blood gas study.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this Act, the 
                written diagnosis and the accompanying interpretive 
                reports described in subsection (b)(5)(A) shall--
                          ``(i) be considered to be conclusive; and
                          ``(ii) be subject to a fair and random audit 
                      procedure established by the Attorney General.
                    ``(B) Certain written diagnoses.--
                          ``(i) In general.--For purposes of this Act, a 
                      written diagnosis made by a physician described 
                      under clause (ii) of a nonmalignant pulmonary 
                      disease or lung cancer of a claimant that is 
                      accompanied by written documentation shall be 
                      considered to be conclusive evidence of that 
                      disease.
                          ``(ii) Description of physicians.--A physician 
                      referred to under clause (i) is a physician who--
                                    ``(I) is employed by the Indian 
                                Health Service or the Department of 
                                Veterans Affairs; or
                                    ``(II) is a board certified 
                                physician; and
                                    ``(III) has a documented ongoing 
                                physician patient relationship with the 
                                claimant.
            ``(2) Chest x-rays.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this Act, a chest 
                x-ray and the accompanying interpretive reports 
                described in subsection (b)(5)(B) shall--
                          ``(i) be considered to be conclusive; and
                          ``(ii) be subject to a fair and random audit 
                      procedure established by the Attorney General.
                    ``(B) Certain written diagnoses.--
                          ``(i) In general.--For purposes of this Act, a 
                      written diagnosis made by a physician described in 
                      clause (ii) of a nonmalignant pulmonary disease or 
                      lung cancer of a claimant that is accompanied by 
                      written documentation that meets the definition of 
                      that term under subsection (b)(5) shall be 
                      considered to be conclusive evidence of that 
                      disease.
                          ``(ii) Description of physicians.--A physician 
                      referred to under clause (i) is a physician who--
                                    ``(I) is employed by--
                                            ``(aa) the Indian Health 
                                        Service; or
                                            ``(bb) the Department of 
                                        Veterans Affairs; and
                                    ``(II) has a documented ongoing 
                                physician patient relationship with the 
                                claimant.''.

    (d) Determination and Payment of Claims.--
            (1) Filing procedures.--Section 6(a) of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following: ``In establishing procedures 
        under this subsection, the Attorney General shall take into

[[Page 114 STAT. 506]]

        account and make allowances for the law, tradition, and customs 
        of Indian tribes (as that term is defined in section 5(b)) and 
        members of Indian tribes, to the maximum extent practicable.''.
            (2) Determination and payment of claims, generally.--Section 
        6(b)(1) of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2210 note) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``All 
        reasonable doubt with regard to whether a claim meets the 
        requirements of this Act shall be resolved in favor of the 
        claimant.''.
            (3) Offset for certain payments.--Section 6(c)(2)(B) of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``(other than a 
                claim for workers' compensation)'' after ``claim''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``Federal 
                Government'' and inserting ``Department of Veterans 
                Affairs''.
            (4) Application of native american law to claims.--Section 
        6(c)(4) of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 
        2210 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Application of native american law.--In 
                determining those individuals eligible to receive 
                compensation by virtue of marriage, relationship, or 
                survivorship, such determination shall take into 
                consideration and give effect to established law, 
                tradition, and custom of the particular affected Indian 
                tribe.''.
            (5) Action on claims.--Section 6(d) of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1) In general.--'' before ``The 
                Attorney General'';
                    (B) by inserting at the end the following: ``For 
                purposes of determining when the 12-month period ends, a 
                claim under this Act shall be deemed filed as of the 
                date of its receipt by the Attorney General. In the 
                event of the denial of a claim, the claimant shall be 
                permitted a reasonable period in which to seek 
                administrative review of the denial by the Attorney 
                General. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Attorney General shall 
                make a final determination with respect to any 
                administrative review within 90 days after the receipt 
                of the claimant's request for such review. In the event 
                the Attorney General fails to render a determination 
                within 12 months after the date of the receipt of such 
                request, the claim shall be deemed awarded as a matter 
                of law and paid.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Additional information.--The Attorney General may 
        request from any claimant under this Act, or from any individual 
        or entity on behalf of any such claimant, any reasonable 
        additional information or documentation necessary to complete 
        the determination on the claim in accordance with the procedures 
        established under subsection (a).
            ``(3) Treatment of period associated with request.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The period described in 
                subparagraph (B) shall not apply to the 12-month 
                limitation under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Period.--The period described in this 
                subparagraph is the period--

[[Page 114 STAT. 507]]

                          ``(i) beginning on the date on which the 
                      Attorney General makes a request for additional 
                      information or documentation under paragraph (2); 
                      and
                          ``(ii) ending on the date on which the 
                      claimant or individual or entity acting on behalf 
                      of that claimant submits that information or 
                      documentation or informs the Attorney General that 
                      it is not possible to provide that information or 
                      that the claimant or individual or entity will not 
                      provide that information.
            ``(4) Payment within 6 weeks.--The Attorney General shall 
        ensure that an approved claim is paid not later than 6 weeks 
        after the date on which such claim is approved.
            ``(5) Native american considerations.--Any procedures under 
        this subsection shall take into consideration and incorporate, 
        to the fullest extent feasible, Native American law, tradition, 
        and custom with respect to the submission and processing of 
        claims by Native Americans.''.

    (e) Regulations.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Section 6(i) of the 
        Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following: ``Not later than 180 
        days after the date of the enactment of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act Amendments of 2000, the Attorney General shall 
        issue revised regulations to carry out this Act.''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 42 USC 2210 note.>> Affidavits.--
                    (A) In general.--The Attorney General shall take 
                such action as may be necessary to ensure that the 
                procedures established by the Attorney General under 
                section 6 of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 
                U.S.C. 2210 note) provide that, in addition to any other 
                material that may be used to substantiate employment 
                history for purposes of determining working level 
                months, an individual filing a claim under those 
                procedures may make such a substantiation by means of an 
                affidavit described in subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Affidavits.--An affidavit referred to under 
                subparagraph (A) is an affidavit--
                          (i) that meets such requirements as the 
                      Attorney General may establish; and
                          (ii) is made by a person other than the 
                      individual filing the claim that attests to the 
                      employment history of the claimant.

    (f) Limitations on Claims.--Section 8 of the Radiation Exposure 
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before ``A claim''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Resubmittal of Claims.--After the date of the enactment of the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000, any claimant who 
has been denied compensation under this Act may resubmit a claim for 
consideration by the Attorney General in accordance with this Act not 
more than three times. Any resubmittal made before the date of the 
enactment of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000 
shall not be applied to the limitation under the preceding sentence.''.
    (g) Extension of Claims and Fund.--
            (1) Extension of claims.--Section 8 of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended by

[[Page 114 STAT. 508]]

        striking ``20 years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act'' and inserting ``22 years after the date of the enactment 
        of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000''.
            (2) Extension of fund.--Section 3(d) of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended in 
        the first sentence by striking ``date of the enactment of this 
        Act'' and inserting ``date of the enactment of the Radiation 
        Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000''.

    (h) Attorney Fees Limitation.--Section 9 of the Radiation Exposure 
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 9. ATTORNEY FEES.

    ``(a) General Rule.--Notwithstanding any contract, the 
representative of an individual may not receive, for services rendered 
in connection with the claim of an individual under this Act, more than 
that percentage specified in subsection (b) of a payment made under this 
Act on such claim.
    ``(b) Applicable Percentage Limitations.--The percentage referred to 
in subsection (a) is--
            ``(1) 2 percent for the filing of an initial claim; and
            ``(2) 10 percent with respect to--
                    ``(A) any claim with respect to which a 
                representative has made a contract for services before 
                the date of the enactment of the Radiation Exposure 
                Compensation Act Amendments of 2000; or
                    ``(B) a resubmission of a denied claim.

    ``(c) Penalty.--Any such representative who violates this section 
shall be fined not more than $5,000.''.
    (i) GAO <<NOTE: 42 USC 2210 note.>> Reports.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than 18 
        months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 18 
        months thereafter, the General Accounting Office shall submit a 
        report to Congress containing a detailed accounting of the 
        administration of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 
        U.S.C. 2210 note) by the Department of Justice.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under this subsection 
        shall include an analysis of--
                    (A) claims, awards, and administrative costs under 
                the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 
                note); and
                    (B) the budget of the Department of Justice relating 
                to such Act.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS TO STATES FOR 
                    EDUCATION, PREVENTION, AND EARLY DETECTION OF 
                    RADIOGENIC CANCERS AND DISEASES.

    Subpart I of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 285 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 417C. GRANTS <<NOTE: 42 USC 285a-9.>> FOR EDUCATION, 
                            PREVENTION, AND EARLY DETECTION OF 
                            RADIOGENIC CANCERS AND DISEASES.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section the term `entity' means any--
            ``(1) National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center;
            ``(2) Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or medical 
        center;

[[Page 114 STAT. 509]]

            ``(3) Federally Qualified Health Center, community health 
        center, or hospital;
            ``(4) agency of any State or local government, including any 
        State department of health; or
            ``(5) nonprofit organization.

    ``(b) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator 
of the Health Resources and Services Administration in consultation with 
the Director of the National Institutes of Health and the Director of 
the Indian Health Service, may make competitive grants to any entity for 
the purpose of carrying out programs to--
            ``(1) screen individuals described under section 
        4(a)(1)(A)(i) or 5(a)(1)(A) of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) for cancer as a 
        preventative health measure;
            ``(2) provide appropriate referrals for medical treatment of 
        individuals screened under paragraph (1) and to ensure, to the 
        extent practicable, the provision of appropriate follow-up 
        services;
            ``(3) develop and disseminate public information and 
        education programs for the detection, prevention, and treatment 
        of radiogenic cancers and diseases; and
            ``(4) facilitate putative applicants in the documentation of 
        claims as described in section 5(a) of the Radiation Exposure 
        Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note).

    ``(c) Indian Health Service.--The programs under subsection (a) 
shall include programs provided through the Indian Health Service or 
through tribal contracts, compacts, grants, or cooperative agreements 
with the Indian Health Service and which are determined appropriate to 
raising the health status of Indians.
    ``(d) Grant and Contract Authority.--Entities receiving a grant 
under subsection (b) may expend the grant to carry out the purpose 
described in such subsection.
    ``(e) Health Coverage Unaffected.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect any coverage obligation of a governmental or private 
health plan or program relating to an individual referred to under 
subsection (b)(1).
    ``(f) Report <<NOTE: Effective date.>> to Congress.--Beginning on 
October 1 of the year following the date on which amounts are first 
appropriated to carry out this section and annually on each October 1 
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on the 
Judiciary and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
the Senate and to the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
Commerce of the House of Representatives. Each report shall summarize 
the expenditures and programs funded under this section as the Secretary 
determines to be appropriate.

[[Page 114 STAT. 510]]

    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section $20,000,000 
for fiscal year 1999 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 
fiscal years 2000 through 2009.''.

    Approved July 10, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1515:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-697 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    June 27, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    June 28, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>