[106th Congress Public Law 514]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ514.106]


[[Page 2393]]

          COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 2394]]

Public Law 106-514
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To reauthorize and amend the Coastal Barrier Resources Act. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                        13, 2000 -  [S. 1752]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Coastal Barrier Resources 
Reauthorization Act of 2000. 16 USC 3501 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Coastal Barrier Resources 
Reauthorization Act of 2000''.
SEC. 2. GUIDELINES FOR CERTAIN RECOMMENDATIONS AND DETERMINATIONS.

    Section 4 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503), as 
otherwise amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(g) Guidelines for Certain Recommendations and Determinations.--
            ``(1) In general.--In making any recommendation to the 
        Congress regarding the addition of any area to the System or in 
        determining whether, at the time of the inclusion of a System 
        unit within the System, a coastal barrier is undeveloped, the 
        Secretary shall consider whether within the area--
                    ``(A) the density of development is less than 1 
                structure per 5 acres of land above mean high tide; and
                    ``(B) there is existing infrastructure consisting 
                of--
                          ``(i) a road, with a reinforced road bed, to 
                      each lot or building site in the area;
                          ``(ii) a wastewater disposal system sufficient 
                      to serve each lot or building site in the area;
                          ``(iii) electric service for each lot or 
                      building site in the area; and
                          ``(iv) a fresh water supply for each lot or 
                      building site in the area.
            ``(2) Structure defined.--In paragraph (1), the term 
        `structure' means a walled and roofed building, other than a gas 
        or liquid storage tank, that--
                    ``(A) is principally above ground and affixed to a 
                permanent site, including a manufactured home on a 
                permanent foundation; and
                    ``(B) covers an area of at least 200 square feet.
            ``(3) Savings clause.--Nothing in this subsection supersedes 
        the official maps referred to in subsection (a).''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2395]]

SEC. 3. VOLUNTARY ADDITIONS TO JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER 
                    RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Section 4 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 
U.S.C. 3503) is amended by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Additions to System.--The Secretary may add a parcel of real 
property to the System, if--
            ``(1) the owner of the parcel requests, in writing, that the 
        Secretary add the parcel to the System; and
            ``(2) the parcel is an undeveloped coastal barrier.''.

    (b) Technical Amendments Relating to Additions of Excess Property.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4(d) of the Coastal Barrier 
        Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; Public Law 101-
        591)--
                    (A) is redesignated and moved so as to appear as 
                subsection (e) of section 4 of the Coastal Barrier 
                Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503); and
                    (B) is amended--
                          (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``one hundred and 
                                eighty'' and inserting ``180''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``shall''; and
                          (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                      ``subsection (d)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                      (1)(B)''; and
                          (iii) by striking paragraph (3).
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 4 of the Coastal Barrier 
        Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; Public Law 101-
        591) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``subsection 
                (d) of this section'' and inserting ``section 4(e) of 
                the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(e))''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking subsection (f).

    (c) Additions to System.--Section 4 of the Coastal Barrier Resources 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3503) is further amended by inserting after subsection 
(e) (as added by subsection (b)(1)) the following:
    ``(f) Maps.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) keep a map showing the location of each boundary 
        modification made under subsection (c) and of each parcel of 
        real property added to the System under subsection (d) or (e) on 
        file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
        Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and in 
        such other offices of the Service as the Director considers 
        appropriate;
            ``(2) provide a copy of the map to--
                    ``(A) the State and unit of local government in 
                which the property is located;
                    ``(B) the Committees; and
                    ``(C) the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
            ``(3) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> revise the 
        maps referred to in subsection (a) to reflect each boundary 
        modification under subsection (c) and each addition of real 
        property to the System under subsection (d) or (e), after 
        publishing in the Federal Register a notice of any such proposed 
        revision.''.

    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 4(a) of the Coastal Barrier 
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) is amended by striking

[[Page 114 STAT. 2396]]

``which shall consist of'' and all that follows and inserting the 
following: ``which shall consist of those undeveloped coastal barriers 
and other areas located on the coasts of the United States that are 
identified and generally depicted on the maps on file with the Secretary 
entitled `Coastal Barrier Resources System', dated October 24, 1990, as 
those maps may be modified, revised, or corrected under--
            ``(1) subsection (f)(3);
            ``(2) section 4 of the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 
        1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; Public Law 101-591); or
            ``(3) any other provision of law enacted on or after 
        November 16, 1990, that specifically authorizes the 
        modification, revision, or correction.''.

SEC. 4. CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Coastal Barrier Resources Act.--The Coastal Barrier Resources 
Act (16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3(2) (16 U.S.C. 3502(2)), by striking 
        ``refers to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries'' and 
        inserting ``means the Committee on Resources'';
            (2) in section 3(3) (16 U.S.C. 3502(3)), in the matter 
        following subparagraph (D), by striking ``Effective October 1, 
        1983, such'' and inserting ``Such''; and
            (3) by repealing section 10 (16 U.S.C. 3509).

    (b) Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990.--Section 8 of the 
Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note; Public Law 
101-591) is repealed.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 12 of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3510) is 
redesignated as section 10, moved to appear after section 9, and amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this Act $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 
and 2005.''.

SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3503 note.>> DIGITAL MAPPING PILOT PROJECT.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Project.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in 
        this section as the ``Secretary''), in consultation with the 
        Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall carry 
        out a pilot project to determine the feasibility and cost of 
        creating digital versions of the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier 
        Resources System maps referred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal 
        Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) (as amended by section 
        3(d)).
            (2) Number of units.--The pilot project shall consist of the 
        creation of digital maps for no more than 75 units and no fewer 
        than 50 units of the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources 
        System (referred to in this section as the ``System''), \1/3\ of 
        which shall be otherwise protected areas (as defined in section 
        12 of the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 
        3503 note; Public Law 101-591)).

    (b) Data.--
            (1) Use of existing data.--To the maximum extent 
        practicable, in carrying out the pilot project under this 
        section,

[[Page 114 STAT. 2397]]

        the Secretary shall use digital spatial data in the possession 
        of State, local, and Federal agencies including digital 
        orthophotos, and shoreline, elevation, and bathymetric data.
            (2) Provision of data by other agencies.--The head of a 
        Federal agency that possesses data referred to in paragraph (1) 
        shall, upon request of the Secretary, promptly provide the data 
        to the Secretary at no cost.
            (3) Additional data.--If the Secretary determines that data 
        necessary to carry out the pilot project under this section do 
        not exist, the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the 
        Director of the United States Geological Survey under which the 
        Director shall obtain, in cooperation with other Federal 
        agencies, as appropriate, and provide to the Secretary the data 
        required to carry out this section.
            (4) Data standards.--All data used or created to carry out 
        this section shall comply with--
                    (A) the National Spatial Data Infrastructure 
                established by Executive Order 12906 (59 Fed. Reg. 17671 
                (April 13, 1994)); and
                    (B) any other standards established by the Federal 
                Geographic Data Committee established by Office of 
                Management and Budget Circular A-16.

    (c) Digital Maps Not Controlling.--Any determination as to whether a 
location is inside or outside the System shall be made without regard to 
the digital maps created under this section.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 3 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives a report that describes the results of the pilot 
        project and the feasibility, data needs, and costs of completing 
        digital maps for the entire System.
            (2) Contents.--The report shall include a description of--
                    (A) the cooperative agreements that would be 
                necessary to complete digital mapping of the entire 
                System;
                    (B) the extent to which the data necessary to 
                complete digital mapping of the entire System are 
                available;
                    (C) the need for additional data to complete digital 
                mapping of the entire System;
                    (D) the extent to which the boundary lines on the 
                digital maps differ from the boundary lines on the 
                original maps; and
                    (E) the amount of funding necessary to complete 
                digital mapping of the entire System.

    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $500,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2002 through 2004.
SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 16 USC 3501 note.>> ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF JOHN H. 
                    CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives an 
economic assessment of the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources 
System.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2398]]

    (b) Required Elements.--The assessment shall consider the impact on 
Federal expenditures of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 
3501 et seq.), including impacts resulting from the avoidance of Federal 
expenditures for--
            (1) disaster relief under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
        Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.);
            (2) the national flood insurance program established under 
        chapter 1 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
        4011 et seq.); and
            (3) development assistance for roads, potable water 
        supplies, and wastewater infrastructure.

    Approved November 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1752 (H.R. 1431):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-218 accompanying H.R. 1431 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-252 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Sept. 27, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 24, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>