[106th Congress Public Law 213]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ213.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 334]]

Public Law 106-213
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a 
     hydroelectric project in the State of Alabama. <<NOTE: May 26, 
                          2000 -  [S. 1836]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE AND REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified in 
section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission project numbered 7115, 
the Commission shall, at the request of the licensee for the project, in 
accordance with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest 
requirements of that section and the Commission's procedures under that 
section, extend for 3 consecutive 2-year periods, the time period during 
which the licensee is required to commence construction of the project.
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall take effect on the 
expiration of the period required for commencement of construction of 
the project described in subsection (a).
    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the license for the 
project described in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license 
effective as of the date of its expiration and extend the time required 
for commencement of construction of the projects for not more than 3 
consecutive 2-year periods, the first of which shall commence on the 
date of expiration of the license.

    Approved May 26, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1836 (H.R. 3852):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-265 accompanying S. 1836 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Apr. 13, considered and passed Senate.
            May 22, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>