[106th Congress Public Law 526]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ526.106]


[[Page 2511]]

                  BEND PINE NURSERY LAND CONVEYANCE ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 2512]]

Public Law 106-526
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to sell or exchange all or 
 part of certain administrative sites and other National Forest System 
 land in the State of Oregon and use the proceeds derived from the sale 
   or exchange for National Forest System purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 22, 
                          2000 -  [S. 1936]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Bend Pine Nursery Land 
Conveyance Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bend Pine Nursery Land Conveyance 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.

SEC. 3. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SITES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may, under such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary may prescribe, sell or exchange any or all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the following 
National Forest System land and improvements:
            (1) Tract A, Bend Pine Nursery, comprising approximately 210 
        acres, as depicted on site plan map entitled ``Bend Pine Nursery 
        Administrative Site, May 13, 1999''.
            (2) Tract B, the Federal Government owned structures located 
        at Shelter Cove Resort, Deschutes National Forest, buildings 
        only, as depicted on site plan map entitled ``Shelter Cove 
        Resort, November 3, 1997''.
            (3) Tract C, portions of isolated parcels of National Forest 
        Land located in Township 20 south, Range 10 East section 25 and 
        Township 20 South, Range 11 East sections 8, 9, 16, 17, 20, and 
        21 consisting of approximately 1,260 acres, as depicted on map 
        entitled ``Deschutes National Forest Isolated Parcels, January 
        1, 2000''.
            (4) Tract D, Alsea Administrative Site, consisting of 
        approximately 24 acres, as depicted on site plan map entitled 
        ``Alsea Administrative Site, May 14, 1999''.
            (5) Tract F, Springdale Administrative Site, consisting of 
        approximately 3.6 acres, as depicted on site plan map entitled 
        ``Site Development Plan, Columbia Gorge Ranger Station, April 
        22, 1964''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2513]]

            (6) Tract G, Dale Administrative Site, consisting of 
        approximately 37 acres, as depicted on site plan map entitled 
        ``Dale Compound, February 1999''.
            (7) Tract H, Crescent Butte Site, consisting of 
        approximately .8 acres, as depicted on site plan map entitled 
        ``Crescent Butte Communication Site, January 1, 2000''.

    (b) Consideration.--Consideration for a sale or exchange of land 
under subsection (a) may include the acquisition of land, existing 
improvements, or improvements constructed to the specifications of the 
Secretary.
    (c) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, any 
sale or exchange of National Forest System land under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
conveyance and acquisition of land for the National Forest System.
    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept a cash equalization payment in excess of 25 
percent of the value of land exchanged under subsection (a).
    (e) Solicitations of Offers.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary may 
        solicit offers for sale or exchange of land under this section 
        on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
            (2) Rejection of offers.--The Secretary may reject any offer 
        made under this section if the Secretary determines that the 
        offer is not adequate or not in the public interest.
            (3) Right of first refusal.--The Bend Metro Park and 
        Recreation District in Deschutes County, Oregon, shall be given 
        the right of first refusal to purchase the Bend Pine Nursery 
        described in subsection (a)(1).

    (f) Revocations.--
            (1) In general.--Any public land order withdrawing land 
        described in subsection (a) from all forms of appropriation 
        under the public land laws is revoked with respect to any 
        portion of the land conveyed by the Secretary under this 
        section.
            (2) Effective date.--The effective date of any revocation 
        under paragraph (1) shall be the date of the patent or deed 
        conveying the land.

SEC. 4. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

    (a) Deposit of Proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit the proceeds 
of a sale or exchange under section 3(a) in the fund established under 
Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a) (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'').
    (b) Use of Proceeds.--Funds deposited under subsection (a) shall be 
available to the Secretary, without further Act of appropriation, for--
            (1) the acquisition, construction, or improvement of 
        administrative and visitor facilities and associated land in 
        connection with the Deschutes National Forest;
            (2) the construction of a bunkhouse facility in the Umatilla 
        National Forest; and
            (3) to the extent the funds are not necessary to carry out 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), the acquisition of land and interests in 
        land in the State.

    (c) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
shall manage any land acquired by purchase or exchange

[[Page 114 STAT. 2514]]

under this Act in accordance with the Act of March 1, 1911 (16 U.S.C. 
480 et seq.) (commonly known as the ``Weeks Act'') and other laws 
(including regulations) pertaining to the National Forest System.

SEC. 5. CONSTRUCTION OF NEW ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES.

    The Secretary may acquire, construct, or improve administrative 
facilities and associated land in connection with the Deschutes National 
Forest System by using--
            (1) funds made available under section 4(b); and
            (2) to the extent the funds are insufficient to carry out 
        the acquisition, construction, or improvement, funds 
        subsequently made available for the acquisition, construction, 
        or improvement.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved November 22, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1936:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-938 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-256 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 27, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 17, considered and passed House, amended.
            Oct. 27, Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>