[106th Congress Private Law 23]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl023.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3123]]

Private Law 106-23
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Malia Miller. <<NOTE: Nov. 22, 2000 -  [S. 2019]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR MALIA MILLER.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Malia Miller shall be 
eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon 
filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Malia Miller enters the United States 
before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she shall be 
considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise 
eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or the application for adjustment of status are filed with 
appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3124]]

    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Malia Miller, the Secretary of 
State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by one, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien's 
birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or, if 
applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available 
to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 202(e) of 
such Act.

    Approved November 22, 2000.