[106th Congress Public Law 517]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ517.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2407]]

Public Law 106-517
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the Omnibus Crime <<NOTE: Nov. 13, 2000 -  [S. 2413]>> Control 
 and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to clarify the procedures and conditions 
    for the award of matching grants for the purchase of armor vests.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Bulletproof Vest 
Partnership Grant Act of 2000.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3711 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796ll note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the number of law enforcement officers who are killed in 
        the line of duty would significantly decrease if every law 
        enforcement officer in the United States had the protection of 
        an armor vest;
            (2) according to studies, between 1985 and 1994, 709 law 
        enforcement officers in the United States were killed in the 
        line of duty;
            (3) the Federal Bureau of Investigation estimates that the 
        risk of fatality to law enforcement officers while not wearing 
        an armor vest is 14 times higher than for officers wearing an 
        armor vest;
            (4) according to studies, between 1985 and 1994, bullet-
        resistant materials helped save the lives of more than 2,000 law 
        enforcement officers in the United States; and
            (5) the Executive Committee for Indian Country Law 
        Enforcement Improvements reports that violent crime in Indian 
        country has risen sharply, despite a decrease in the national 
        crime rate, and has concluded that there is a ``public safety 
        crisis in Indian country''.
SEC. 3. MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ARMOR VESTS.

    (a) Matching Funds.--Section 2501(f) of part Y of title I of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796ll(f)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The portion'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The portion'';
            (2) by striking ``subsection (a)'' and all that follows 
        through the period at the end of the first sentence and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) may not exceed 50 percent; and
                    ``(B) shall equal 50 percent, if--

[[Page 114 STAT. 2408]]

                          ``(i) such grant is to a unit of local 
                      government with fewer than 100,000 residents;
                          ``(ii) the Director of the Bureau of Justice 
                      Assistance determines that the quantity of vests 
                      to be purchased with such grant is reasonable; and
                          ``(iii) such portion does not cause such grant 
                      to violate the requirements of subsection (e).''; 
                      and
            (3) by striking ``Any funds'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Indian assistance.--Any funds''.

    (b) Allocation of Funds.--Section 2501(g) of part Y of title I of 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3796ll(g)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Allocation of Funds.--Funds available under this part shall be 
awarded, without regard to subsection (c), to each qualifying unit of 
local government with fewer than 100,000 residents. Any remaining funds 
available under this part shall be awarded to other qualifying 
applicants.''.
    (c) Applications.--Section 2502 of part Y of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796ll-1) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Applications in Conjunction With Purchases.--If an application 
under this section is submitted in conjunction with a transaction for 
the purchase of armor vests, grant amounts under this section may not be 
used to fund any portion of that purchase unless, before the application 
is submitted, the applicant--
            ``(1) receives clear and conspicuous notice that receipt of 
        the grant amounts requested in the application is uncertain; and
            ``(2) expressly assumes the obligation to carry out the 
        transaction, regardless of whether such amounts are received.''.

    (d) Definition of Armor Vest.--Section 2503(1) of part Y of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3796ll-2(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``means body armor'' and inserting the 
        following: ``means--
                    ``(A) body armor'';
            (2) by adding ``or'' at the end; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) body armor that has been tested through the 
                voluntary compliance testing program, and found to meet 
                or exceed the requirements of NIJ Standard 0115.00, or 
                any revision of such standard;''.

    (e) Interim Definition of Armor Vest.--For <<NOTE: 42 USC 3796ll-2 
note.>> purposes of part Y of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended by this Act, the meaning of the 
term ``armor vest'' (as defined in section 2503 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
3796ll-2)) shall, until the date on which a final NIJ Standard 0115.00 
is first fully approved and implemented, also include body armor which 
has been found to meet or exceed the requirements for protection against 
stabbing established by the State in which the grantee is located.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2409]]

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 1001(a)(23) of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3793(a)(23)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, and $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2002 through 
2004''.

    Approved November 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2413 (H.R. 4033):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-776 accompanying H.R. 4033 (Comm. on the 
Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 10, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 25, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>