[106th Congress Public Law 71]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ071.106]

         MISSING, EXPLOITED, AND RUNAWAY CHILDREN PROTECTION ACT
Public Law 106-71
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide funding for the National Center for Missing and Exploited 
  Children, to reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, and for 
          other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 12, 1999 -  [S. 249]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Missing, 
Exploited, and Runaway Children Protection Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5601 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Missing, Exploited, and Runaway 
Children Protection Act''.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL CENTER FOR MISSING AND EXPLOITED CHILDREN.

    (a) Findings.--Section 402 of the Missing Children's Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5771) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (8), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) for 14 years, the National Center for Missing and 
        Exploited Children has--
                    ``(A) served as the national resource center and 
                clearinghouse congressionally mandated under the 
                provisions of the Missing Children's Assistance Act of 
                1984; and
                    ``(B) worked in partnership with the Department of 
                Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the 
                Department of the Treasury, the Department of State, and 
                many other agencies in the effort to find missing 
                children and prevent child victimization;
            ``(10) Congress has given the Center, which is a private 
        nonprofit corporation, access to the National Crime Information 
        Center of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the National 
        Law Enforcement Telecommunications System;
            ``(11) since 1987, the Center has operated the National 
        Child Pornography Tipline, in conjunction with the United States 
        Customs Service and the United States Postal Inspection Service 
        and, beginning this year, the Center established a new 
        CyberTipline on child exploitation, thus becoming `the 911 for 
        the Internet';
            ``(12) in light of statistics that time is of the essence in 
        cases of child abduction, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation in February of 1997 created a new NCIC child 
        abduction (`CA') flag to provide the Center immediate 
        notification in the most serious cases, resulting in 642 `CA' 
        notifications to the Center and helping the Center to have its 
        highest recovery rate in history;
            ``(13) the Center has established a national and 
        increasingly worldwide network, linking the Center online with 
        each of the missing children clearinghouses operated by the 50 
        States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, as well as 
        with Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, the Royal Canadian 
        Mounted Police, INTERPOL headquarters in Lyon, France, and 
        others, which has enabled the Center to transmit images and 
        information regarding missing children to law enforcement across 
        the United States and around the world instantly;
            ``(14) from its inception in 1984 through March 31, 1998, 
        the Center has--
                    ``(A) handled 1,203,974 calls through its 24-hour 
                toll-free hotline (1-800-THE-LOST) and currently 
                averages 700 calls per day;
                    ``(B) trained 146,284 law enforcement, criminal and 
                juvenile justice, and healthcare professionals in child 
                sexual exploitation and missing child case detection, 
                identification, investigation, and prevention;
                    ``(C) disseminated 15,491,344 free publications to 
                citizens and professionals; and
                    ``(D) worked with law enforcement on the cases of 
                59,481 missing children, resulting in the recovery of 
                40,180 children;
            ``(15) the demand for the services of the Center is growing 
        dramatically, as evidenced by the fact that in 1997, the Center 
        handled 129,100 calls, an all-time record, and by the fact that 
        its new Internet website (www.missingkids.com) receives 
        1,500,000 `hits' every day, and is linked with hundreds of other 
        websites to provide real-time images of breaking cases of 
        missing children;
            ``(16) in 1997, the Center provided policy training to 256 
        police chiefs and sheriffs from 50 States and Guam at its new 
        Jimmy Ryce Law Enforcement Training Center;
            ``(17) the programs of the Center have had a remarkable 
        impact, such as in the fight against infant abductions in 
        partnership with the healthcare industry, during which the 
        Center has performed 668 onsite hospital walk-throughs and 
        inspections, and trained 45,065 hospital administrators, nurses, 
        and security personnel, and thereby helped to reduce infant 
        abductions in the United States by 82 percent;
            ``(18) the Center is now playing a significant role in 
        international child abduction cases, serving as a representative 
        of the Department of State at cases under The Hague Convention, 
        and successfully resolving the cases of 343 international child 
        abductions, and providing greater support to parents in the 
        United States;
            ``(19) the Center is a model of public/private partnership, 
        raising private sector funds to match congressional 
        appropriations and receiving extensive private in-kind support, 
        including advanced technology provided by the computer industry 
        such as imaging technology used to age the photographs of long-
        term missing children and to reconstruct facial images of 
        unidentified deceased children;
            ``(20) the Center was 1 of only 10 of 300 major national 
        charities given an A+ grade in 1997 by the American Institute of 
        Philanthropy; and
            ``(21) the Center has been redesignated as the Nation's 
        missing children clearinghouse and resource center once every 3 
        years through a competitive selection process conducted by the 
        Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the 
        Department of Justice, and has received grants from that Office 
        to conduct the crucial purposes of the Center.''.

    (b) Definitions.--Section 403 of the Missing Children's Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5772) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the term `Center' means the National Center for 
        Missing and Exploited Children.''.

    (c) Duties and Functions of the Administrator.--Section 404 of the 
Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5773) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Annual Grant to National Center for Missing and Exploited 
Children.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall annually make a 
        grant to the Center, which shall be used to--
                    ``(A)(i) operate a national 24-hour toll-free 
                telephone line by which individuals may report 
                information regarding the location of any missing child, 
                or other child 13 years of age or younger whose 
                whereabouts are unknown to such child's legal custodian, 
                and request information pertaining to procedures 
                necessary to reunite such child with such child's legal 
                custodian; and
                    ``(ii) coordinate the operation of such telephone 
                line with the operation of the national communications 
                system referred to in part C of the Runaway and Homeless 
                Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-11);
                    ``(B) operate the official national resource center 
                and information clearinghouse for missing and exploited 
                children;
                    ``(C) provide to State and local governments, public 
                and private nonprofit agencies, and individuals, 
                information regarding--
                          ``(i) free or low-cost legal, restaurant, 
                      lodging, and transportation services that are 
                      available for the benefit of missing and exploited 
                      children and their families; and
                          ``(ii) the existence and nature of programs 
                      being carried out by Federal agencies to assist 
                      missing and exploited children and their families;
                    ``(D) coordinate public and private programs that 
                locate, recover, or reunite missing children with their 
                families;
                    ``(E) disseminate, on a national basis, information 
                relating to innovative and model programs, services, and 
                legislation that benefit missing and exploited children;
                    ``(F) provide technical assistance and training to 
                law enforcement agencies, State and local governments, 
                elements of the criminal justice system, public and 
                private nonprofit agencies, and individuals in the 
                prevention, investigation, prosecution, and treatment of 
                cases involving missing and exploited children; and
                    ``(G) provide assistance to families and law 
                enforcement agencies in locating and recovering missing 
                and exploited children, both nationally and 
                internationally.
            ``(2) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this 
        subsection, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000, 2001, 
        2002, and 2003.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Grants. Contracts.>>  National Incidence Studies.--The 
Administrator, either by making grants to or entering into contracts 
with public agencies or nonprofit private agencies, shall--
            ``(1) periodically conduct national incidence studies to 
        determine for a given year the actual number of children 
        reported missing each year, the number of children who are 
        victims of abduction by strangers, the number of children who 
        are the victims of parental kidnapings, and the number of 
        children who are recovered each year; and
            ``(2) provide to State and local governments, public and 
        private nonprofit agencies, and individuals information to 
        facilitate the lawful use of school records and birth 
        certificates to identify and locate missing children.''.

    (d) National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.--Section 
405(a) of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5775(a)) is 
amended by inserting ``the Center and with'' before ``public agencies''.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 408 of the Missing 
Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5777) is amended by striking ``1997 
through 2001'' and inserting ``2000 through 2003''.

SEC. 3. RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH.

    (a) Findings.--Section 302 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5701) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``accurate reporting of 
        the problem nationally and to develop'' and inserting ``an 
        accurate national reporting system to report the problem, and to 
        assist in the development of''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the following:
            ``(8) services for runaway and homeless youth are needed in 
        urban, suburban, and rural areas;''.

    (b) Authority To Make Grants for Centers and Services.--Section 311 
of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5711) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:

    ``(a) Grants for Centers and Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall make grants to public 
        and nonprofit private entities (and combinations of such 
        entities) to establish and operate (including renovation) local 
        centers to provide services for runaway and homeless youth and 
        for the families of such youth.
            ``(2) Services provided.--Services provided under paragraph 
        (1)--
                    ``(A) shall be provided as an alternative to 
                involving runaway and homeless youth in the law 
                enforcement, child welfare, mental health, and juvenile 
                justice systems;
                    ``(B) shall include--
                          ``(i) safe and appropriate shelter; and
                          ``(ii) individual, family, and group 
                      counseling, as appropriate; and
                    ``(C) may include--
                          ``(i) street-based services;
                          ``(ii) home-based services for families with 
                      youth at risk of separation from the family; and
                          ``(iii) drug abuse education and prevention 
                      services.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``the Trust Territory 
        of the Pacific Islands,''; and
            (3) by striking subsections (c) and (d).

    (c) Eligibility.--Section 312 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5712) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (8), by striking ``paragraph (6)'' 
                and inserting ``paragraph (7)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  shall submit to the Secretary an 
        annual report that includes, with respect to the year for which 
        the report is submitted--
                    ``(A) information regarding the activities carried 
                out under this part;
                    ``(B) the achievements of the project under this 
                part carried out by the applicant; and
                    ``(C) statistical summaries describing--
                          ``(i) the number and the characteristics of 
                      the runaway and homeless youth, and youth at risk 
                      of family separation, who participate in the 
                      project; and
                          ``(ii) the services provided to such youth by 
                      the project.''; and
            (2) by striking subsections (c) and (d) and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(c) Applicants Providing Street-Based Services.--To be eligible to 
use assistance under section 311(a)(2)(C)(i) to provide street-based 
services, the applicant shall include in the plan required by subsection 
(b) assurances that in providing such services the applicant will--
            ``(1) provide qualified supervision of staff, including on-
        street supervision by appropriately trained staff;
            ``(2) provide backup personnel for on-street staff;
            ``(3) provide initial and periodic training of staff who 
        provide such services; and
            ``(4) conduct outreach activities for runaway and homeless 
        youth, and street youth.

    ``(d) Applicants Providing Home-Based Services.--To be eligible to 
use assistance under section 311(a) to provide home-based services 
described in section 311(a)(2)(C)(ii), an applicant shall include in the 
plan required by subsection (b) assurances that in providing such 
services the applicant will--
            ``(1) provide counseling and information to youth and the 
        families (including unrelated individuals in the family 
        households) of such youth, including services relating to basic 
        life skills, interpersonal skill building, educational 
        advancement, job attainment skills, mental and physical health 
        care, parenting skills, financial planning, and referral to 
        sources of other needed services;
            ``(2) provide directly, or through an arrangement made by 
        the applicant, 24-hour service to respond to family crises 
        (including immediate access to temporary shelter for runaway and 
        homeless youth, and youth at risk of separation from the 
        family);
            ``(3) establish, in partnership with the families of runaway 
        and homeless youth, and youth at risk of separation from the 
        family, objectives and measures of success to be achieved as a 
        result of receiving home-based services;
            ``(4) provide initial and periodic training of staff who 
        provide home-based services; and
            ``(5) ensure that--
                    ``(A) caseloads will remain sufficiently low to 
                allow for intensive (5 to 20 hours per week) involvement 
                with each family receiving such services; and
                    ``(B) staff providing such services will receive 
                qualified supervision.

    ``(e) Applicants Providing Drug Abuse Education and Prevention 
Services.--To be eligible to use assistance under section 
311(a)(2)(C)(iii) to provide drug abuse education and prevention 
services, an applicant shall include in the plan required by subsection 
(b)--
            ``(1) a description of--
                    ``(A) the types of such services that the applicant 
                proposes to provide;
                    ``(B) the objectives of such services; and
                    ``(C) the types of information and training to be 
                provided to individuals providing such services to 
                runaway and homeless youth; and
            ``(2) an assurance that in providing such services the 
        applicant shall conduct outreach activities for runaway and 
        homeless youth.''.

    (d) Approval of Applications.--Section 313 of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5713) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 313. APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--An application by a public or private entity for 
a grant under section 311(a) may be approved by the Secretary after 
taking into consideration, with respect to the State in which such 
entity proposes to provide services under this part--
            ``(1) the geographical distribution in such State of the 
        proposed services under this part for which all grant applicants 
        request approval; and
            ``(2) which areas of such State have the greatest need for 
        such services.

    ``(b) Priority.--In selecting applications for grants under section 
311(a), the Secretary shall give priority to--
            ``(1) eligible applicants who have demonstrated experience 
        in providing services to runaway and homeless youth; and
            ``(2) eligible applicants that request grants of less than 
        $200,000.''.

    (e) Authority for Transitional Living Grant Program.--Section 321 of 
the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-1) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``purpose and'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a)''; and
            (3) by striking subsection (b).

    (f) Eligibility.--Section 322(a)(9) of the Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-2(a)(9)) is amended by inserting ``, and the 
services provided to such youth by such project,'' after ``such 
project''.
    (g) Coordination.--Section 341 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5714-21) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 341. COORDINATION.

    ``With respect to matters relating to the health, education, 
employment, and housing of runaway and homeless youth, the Secretary--
            ``(1) in conjunction with the Attorney General, shall 
        coordinate the activities of agencies of the Department of 
        Health and Human Services with activities under any other 
        Federal juvenile crime control, prevention, and juvenile 
        offender accountability program and with the activities of other 
        Federal entities; and
            ``(2) shall coordinate the activities of agencies of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services with the activities of 
        other Federal entities and with the activities of entities that 
        are eligible to receive grants under this title.''.

    (h) Authority To Make Grants for Research, Evaluation, 
Demonstration, and Service Projects.--Section 343 of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-23) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``evaluation,'' 
        after ``research,'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting ``evaluation,'' after 
        ``research,''; and
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (10) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (9), respectively.

    (i) Study.--Part D of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5731 et seq.) is amended by adding after section 344 the following:

``SEC. 345. STUDY. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714-25.>> 

    ``The Secretary shall conduct a study of a representative sample of 
runaways to determine the percent who leave home because of sexual 
abuse. The report on the study shall include--
            ``(1) in the case of sexual abuse, the relationship of the 
        assaulter to the runaway; and
            ``(2) recommendations on how Federal laws may be changed to 
        reduce sexual assaults on children.

The <<NOTE: Reports. Public information. Deadline.>>  study shall be 
completed to enable the Secretary to make a report to the committees of 
Congress with jurisdiction over this Act, and to make such report 
available to the public, within one year of the date of the enactment of 
this section.''.

    (j) Assistance to Potential Grantees.--Section 371 of the Runaway 
and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714a) is amended by striking the last 
sentence.
    (k) Reports.--Section 381 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5715) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 381. REPORTS.

    ``(a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than April 1, 
2000, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit, to the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, a report on the 
status, activities, and accomplishments of entities that receive grants 
under parts A, B, C, D, and E, with particular attention to--
            ``(1) in the case of centers funded under part A, the 
        ability or effectiveness of such centers in--
                    ``(A) alleviating the problems of runaway and 
                homeless youth;
                    ``(B) if applicable or appropriate, reuniting such 
                youth with their families and encouraging the resolution 
                of intrafamily problems through counseling and other 
                services;
                    ``(C) strengthening family relationships and 
                encouraging stable living conditions for such youth; and
                    ``(D) assisting such youth to decide upon a future 
                course of action; and
            ``(2) in the case of projects funded under part B--
                    ``(A) the number and characteristics of homeless 
                youth served by such projects;
                    ``(B) the types of activities carried out by such 
                projects;
                    ``(C) the effectiveness of such projects in 
                alleviating the problems of homeless youth;
                    ``(D) the effectiveness of such projects in 
                preparing homeless youth for self-sufficiency;
                    ``(E) the effectiveness of such projects in 
                assisting homeless youth to decide upon future 
                education, employment, and independent living;
                    ``(F) the ability of such projects to encourage the 
                resolution of intrafamily problems through counseling 
                and development of self-sufficient living skills; and
                    ``(G) activities and programs planned by such 
                projects for the following fiscal year.

    ``(b) Contents of Reports.--The Secretary shall include in each 
report submitted under subsection (a), summaries of--
            ``(1) the evaluations performed by the Secretary under 
        section 386; and
            ``(2) descriptions of the qualifications of, and training 
        provided to, individuals involved in carrying out such 
        evaluations.''.

    (l) Evaluation.--Section 384 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5732) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 386. EVALUATION AND INFORMATION.

    ``(a) In General.--If a grantee receives grants for 3 consecutive 
fiscal years under part A, B, C, D, or E (in the alternative), then the 
Secretary shall evaluate such grantee on-site, not less frequently than 
once in the period of such 3 consecutive fiscal years, for purposes of--
            ``(1) determining whether such grants are being used for the 
        purposes for which such grants are made by the Secretary;
            ``(2) collecting additional information for the report 
        required by section 384; and
            ``(3) providing such information and assistance to such 
        grantee as will enable such grantee to improve the operation of 
        the centers, projects, and activities for which such grants are 
        made.

    ``(b) Cooperation.--Recipients of grants under this title shall 
cooperate with the Secretary's efforts to carry out evaluations, and to 
collect information, under this title.''.
    (m) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 385 of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 388. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        to carry out this title (other than part E) such sums as may be 
        necessary for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003.
            ``(2) Allocation.--
                    ``(A) Parts a and b.--From the amount appropriated 
                under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary 
                shall reserve not less than 90 percent to carry out 
                parts A and B.
                    ``(B) Part b.--Of the amount reserved under 
                subparagraph (A), not less than 20 percent, and not more 
                than 30 percent, shall be reserved to carry out part B.
            ``(3) Parts c and d.--In each fiscal year, after reserving 
        the amounts required by paragraph (2), the Secretary shall use 
        the remaining amount (if any) to carry out parts C and D.

    ``(b) Separate Identification Required.--No funds appropriated to 
carry out this title may be combined with funds appropriated under any 
other Act if the purpose of combining such funds is to make a single 
discretionary grant, or a single discretionary payment, unless such 
funds are separately identified in all grants and contracts and are used 
for the purposes specified in this title.''.
    (n) Sexual Abuse Prevention Program.--
            (1) Authority for program.--The Runaway and Homeless Youth 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) by striking the heading for part F; <<NOTE: 42 
                USC 5715.>> 
                    (B) by redesignating part E as part F; 
                and <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714a.>> 
                    (C) by inserting after part D the following:

                ``PART E--SEXUAL ABUSE PREVENTION PROGRAM

``SEC. 351. AUTHORITY TO MAKE GRANTS. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714-41.>> 

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make grants to nonprofit 
private agencies for the purpose of providing street-based services to 
runaway and homeless, and street youth, who have been subjected to, or 
are at risk of being subjected to, sexual abuse, prostitution, or sexual 
exploitation.
    ``(b) Priority.--In selecting applicants to receive grants under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to nonprofit private 
agencies that have experience in providing services to runaway and 
homeless, and street youth.''.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 388(a) of the 
        Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751), as amended by 
        subsection (m) of this section, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
            ``(4) Part e.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out part E such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 
        2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003.''.

    (o) Consolidated Review of Applications.--The Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 
383 the following:

``SEC. 385. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5731a.>>  CONSOLIDATED REVIEW OF 
            APPLICATIONS.

    ``With respect to funds available to carry out parts A, B, C, D, and 
E, nothing in this title shall be construed to prohibit the Secretary 
from--
            ``(1) announcing, in a single announcement, the availability 
        of funds for grants under 2 or more of such parts; and
            ``(2) reviewing applications for grants under 2 or more of 
        such parts in a single, consolidated application review 
        process.''.

    (p) Definitions.--The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 386, as amended by 
subsection (l) of this section, the following:

``SEC. 387. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5732a.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this title:
            ``(1) Drug abuse education and prevention services.--The 
        term `drug abuse education and prevention services'--
                    ``(A) means services to runaway and homeless youth 
                to prevent or reduce the illicit use of drugs by such 
                youth; and
                    ``(B) may include--
                          ``(i) individual, family, group, and peer 
                      counseling;
                          ``(ii) drop-in services;
                          ``(iii) assistance to runaway and homeless 
                      youth in rural areas (including the development of 
                      community support groups);
                          ``(iv) information and training relating to 
                      the illicit use of drugs by runaway and homeless 
                      youth, to individuals involved in providing 
                      services to such youth; and
                          ``(v) activities to improve the availability 
                      of local drug abuse prevention services to runaway 
                      and homeless youth.
            ``(2) Home-based services.--The term `home-based services'--
                    ``(A) means services provided to youth and their 
                families for the purpose of--
                          ``(i) preventing such youth from running away, 
                      or otherwise becoming separated, from their 
                      families; and
                          ``(ii) assisting runaway youth to return to 
                      their families; and
                    ``(B) includes services that are provided in the 
                residences of families (to the extent practicable), 
                including--
                          ``(i) intensive individual and family 
                      counseling; and
                          ``(ii) training relating to life skills and 
                      parenting.
            ``(3) Homeless youth.--The term `homeless youth' means an 
        individual--
                    ``(A) who is--
                          ``(i) not more than 21 years of age; and
                          ``(ii) for the purposes of part B, not less 
                      than 16 years of age;
                    ``(B) for whom it is not possible to live in a safe 
                environment with a relative; and
                    ``(C) who has no other safe alternative living 
                arrangement.
            ``(4) Street-based services.--The term `street-based 
        services'--
                    ``(A) means services provided to runaway and 
                homeless youth, and street youth, in areas where they 
                congregate, designed to assist such youth in making 
                healthy personal choices regarding where they live and 
                how they behave; and
                    ``(B) may include--
                          ``(i) identification of and outreach to 
                      runaway and homeless youth, and street youth;
                          ``(ii) crisis intervention and counseling;
                          ``(iii) information and referral for housing;
                          ``(iv) information and referral for 
                      transitional living and health care services;
                          ``(v) advocacy, education, and prevention 
                      services related to--
                                    ``(I) alcohol and drug abuse;
                                    ``(II) sexual exploitation;
                                    ``(III) sexually transmitted 
                                diseases, including human 
                                immunodeficiency virus (HIV); and
                                    ``(IV) physical and sexual assault.
            ``(5) Street youth.--The term `street youth' means an 
        individual who--
                    ``(A) is--
                          ``(i) a runaway youth; or
                          ``(ii) indefinitely or intermittently a 
                      homeless youth; and
                    ``(B) spends a significant amount of time on the 
                street or in other areas that increase the risk to such 
                youth for sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, 
                prostitution, or drug abuse.
            ``(6) Transitional living youth project.--The term 
        `transitional living youth project' means a project that 
        provides shelter and services designed to promote a transition 
        to self-sufficient living and to prevent long-term dependency on 
        social services.
            ``(7) Youth at risk of separation from the family.--The term 
        `youth at risk of separation from the family' means an 
        individual--
                    ``(A) who is less than 18 years of age; and
                    ``(B)(i) who has a history of running away from the 
                family of such individual;
                    ``(ii) whose parent, guardian, or custodian is not 
                willing to provide for the basic needs of such 
                individual; or
                    ``(iii) who is at risk of entering the child welfare 
                system or juvenile justice system as a result of the 
                lack of services available to the family to meet such 
                needs.''.

    (q) Redesignation of Sections.--Sections 371, 372, 381, 382, and 383 
of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714a, 5714b, 5715, 
5716, 5731.>>  (42 U.S.C. 5714b-5851 et seq.), as amended by this Act, 
are redesignated as sections 380, 381, 382, 383, and 384, respectively.

    (r) Technical Amendments.--The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 331, <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714-11.>>  in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``With'' and all that follows through 
        ``the Secretary'', and inserting ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) in section 344(a)(1), <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714-24.>>  by 
        striking ``With'' and all that follows through ``the 
        Secretary'', and inserting ``The Secretary''.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 20 USC 7101 note.>>  STUDY OF SCHOOL VIOLENCE.

    (a) Contract for Study. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> --Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education 
shall enter into a contract with the National Academy of Sciences for 
the purposes of conducting a study regarding the antecedents of school 
violence in urban, suburban, and rural schools, including the incidents 
of school violence that occurred in Pearl, Mississippi; Paducah, 
Kentucky; Jonesboro, Arkansas; Springfield, Oregon; Edinboro, 
Pennsylvania; Fayetteville, Tennessee; Littleton, Colorado; and Conyers, 
Georgia. Under the terms of such contract, the National Academy of 
Sciences shall appoint a panel that will--
            (1) review the relevant research about adolescent violence 
        in general and school violence in particular, including the 
        existing longitudinal and cross-sectional studies on youth that 
        are relevant to examining violent behavior;
            (2) relate what can be learned from past and current 
        research and surveys to specific incidents of school shootings;
            (3) interview relevant individuals, if possible, such as the 
        perpetrators of such incidents, their families, their friends, 
        their teachers, mental health providers, and others; and
            (4) give particular attention to such issues as--
                    (A) the perpetrators' early development, families, 
                communities, school experiences, and utilization of 
                mental health services;
                    (B) the relationship between perpetrators and their 
                victims;
                    (C) how the perpetrators gained access to firearms;
                    (D) the impact of cultural influences and exposure 
                to the media, video games, and the Internet; and
                    (E) such other issues as the panel deems important 
                or relevant to the purpose of the study.

The National Academy of Sciences shall utilize professionals with 
expertise in such issues, including psychiatrists, social workers, 
behavioral and social scientists, practitioners, epidemiologists, 
statisticians, and methodologists.
    (b) Report. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> --The National Academy of Sciences 
shall submit a report containing the results of the study required by 
subsection (a), to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
President pro tempore of the Senate, the Chair and ranking minority 
Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of 
Representatives, and the Chair and ranking minority Member of the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, not 
later than January 1, 2001, or 18 months after entering into the 
contract required by such subsection, whichever is earlier.

    (c) Appropriation.--Of the funds made available under Public Law 
105-277 for the Department of Education, $2,100,000 shall be made 
available to carry out this section.

    Approved October 12, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 249 (H.R. 905):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-152 accompanying H.R. 905 (Comm. on Education and 
the Workforce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Apr. 19, considered and passed Senate.
            May 25, considered and passed House, amended.
            Sept. 28, Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>