[106th Congress Public Law 531]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ531.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2537]]

Public Law 106-531
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To amend chapter 35 of title 31, <<NOTE: Nov. 22, 2000 -  [S. 
 2712]>> United States Code, to authorize the consolidation of certain 
    financial and performance management reports required of Federal 
                    agencies, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Reports Consolidation Act of 
2000.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3501 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reports Consolidation Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3516 note.>> FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) existing law imposes numerous financial and performance 
        management reporting requirements on agencies;
            (2) these separate requirements can cause duplication of 
        effort on the part of agencies and result in uncoordinated 
        reports containing information in a form that is not completely 
        useful to Congress; and
            (3) pilot projects conducted by agencies under the direction 
        of the Office of Management and Budget demonstrate that single 
        consolidated reports providing an analysis of verifiable 
        financial and performance management information produce more 
        useful reports with greater efficiency.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to authorize and encourage the consolidation of 
        financial and performance management reports;
            (2) to provide financial and performance management 
        information in a more meaningful and useful format for Congress, 
        the President, and the public;
            (3) to improve the quality of agency financial and 
        performance management information; and
            (4) to enhance coordination and efficiency on the part of 
        agencies in reporting financial and performance management 
        information.

SEC. 3. CONSOLIDATED REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 3516. Reports consolidation

    ``(a)(1) With the concurrence of the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, the head of an executive agency may adjust the 
frequency and due dates of, and consolidate into an

[[Page 114 STAT. 2538]]

annual report to the President, the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, and Congress any statutorily required reports described in 
paragraph (2). <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Such a consolidated report shall be 
submitted to the President, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, and to appropriate committees and subcommittees of Congress not 
later than 150 days after the end of the agency's fiscal year.

    ``(2) The following reports may be consolidated into the report 
referred to in paragraph (1):
            ``(A) Any report by an agency to Congress, the Office of 
        Management and Budget, or the President under section 1116, this 
        chapter, and chapters 9, 33, 37, 75, and 91.
            ``(B) The following agency-specific reports:
                    ``(i) The biennial financial management improvement 
                plan by the Secretary of Defense under section 2222 of 
                title 10.
                    ``(ii) The annual report of the Attorney General 
                under section 522 of title 28.
            ``(C) Any other statutorily required report pertaining to an 
        agency's financial or performance management if the head of the 
        agency--
                    ``(i) determines that inclusion of that report will 
                enhance the usefulness of the reported information to 
                decision makers; and
                    ``(ii) consults in advance of inclusion of that 
                report with the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the 
                Senate, the Committee on Government Reform of the House 
                of Representatives, and any other committee of Congress 
                having jurisdiction with respect to the report proposed 
                for inclusion.

    ``(b) A report under subsection (a) that incorporates the agency's 
program performance report under section 1116 shall be referred to as a 
performance and accountability report.
    ``(c) A report under subsection (a) that does not incorporate the 
agency's program performance report under section 1116 shall contain a 
summary of the most significant portions of the agency's program 
performance report, including the agency's success in achieving key 
performance goals for the applicable year.
    ``(d) A report under subsection (a) shall include a statement 
prepared by the agency's inspector general that summarizes what the 
inspector general considers to be the most serious management and 
performance challenges facing the agency and briefly assesses the 
agency's progress in addressing those 
challenges. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The inspector general shall provide such 
statement to the agency head at least 30 days before the due date of the 
report under subsection (a). The agency head may comment on the 
inspector general's statement, but may not modify the statement.

    ``(e) A report under subsection (a) shall include a transmittal 
letter from the agency head containing, in addition to any other 
content, an assessment by the agency head of the completeness and 
reliability of the performance and financial data used in the report. 
The assessment shall describe any material inadequacies in the 
completeness and reliability of the data, and the actions the agency can 
take and is taking to resolve such inadequacies.''.
    (b) Special <<NOTE: Deadline. 31 USC 3516 note.>> Rule for Fiscal 
Years 2000 and 2001.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of section 3516(a) 
of title 31, United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this 
section), the head of

[[Page 114 STAT. 2539]]

an executive agency may submit a consolidated report under such 
paragraph not later than 180 days after the end of that agency's fiscal 
year, with respect to fiscal years 2000 and 2001.

    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 3515 the following:

``3516. Reports consolidation.''.

SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

    (a) Financial Statements.--Section 3515 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Congress and the'' 
        before ``Director''; and
            (2) by striking subsections (e) through (h).

    (b) Elimination of Report.--Section 3521(f) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsections (a) and (f)'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2).
SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PROGRAM PERFORMANCE REPORTS.

    (a) Report Due Date.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1116(a) of title 31, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``No later than March 31, 2000, and 
        no later than March 31 of each year thereafter,'' and inserting 
        ``Not later than 150 days after the end of an agency's fiscal 
        year,''.
            (2) Special <<NOTE: 31 USC 1116 note.>> rule for fiscal 
        years 2000 and 2001.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 
        1116 of title 31, United States Code (as amended by paragraph 
        (1) of this subsection), an agency head may submit a report 
        under such subsection not later than 180 days after the end of 
        that agency's fiscal year, with respect to fiscal years 2000 and 
        2001.

    (b) Inclusion of Information in Financial Statement.--Section 
1116(e) of title 31, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), each program 
performance report shall contain an assessment by the agency head of the 
completeness and reliability of the performance data included in the 
report. The assessment shall describe any material inadequacies in the 
completeness and reliability of the performance data, and the actions 
the agency can take and is taking to resolve such inadequacies.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2540]]

    ``(2) If a program performance report is incorporated into a report 
submitted under section 3516, the requirements of section 3516(e) shall 
apply in lieu of paragraph (1).''.

    Approved November 22, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2712:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-337 (Comm. on Governmental Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 19, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 26, 27, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>