[106th Congress Public Law 66]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ066.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 977]]

Public Law 106-66
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To direct the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior to convey certain 
lands in San Juan County, New Mexico, to San Juan College. <<NOTE: Oct. 
                         6, 1999 -  [S. 293]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. OLD JICARILLA ADMINISTRATIVE SITE.

    (a) Conveyance <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of Property.--Not later than one 
year after the date of completion of the survey referred to in 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to San Juan 
College, in Farmington, New Mexico, subject to the terms, conditions, 
and reservations under subsection (c), all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property (including any 
improvements on the land) not to exceed 20 acres known as the ``Old 
Jicarilla Site'' located in San Juan County, New Mexico (T29N; R5W; 
portions of sections 29 and 30).

    (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior, 
Secretary of Agriculture, and the President of San Juan College. The 
cost of the survey shall be borne by San Juan College.
    (c) Terms, Conditions, and Reservations.--
            (1) Notwithstanding exceptions of application under the 
        Recreation and Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869(c)), 
        consideration for the conveyance described in subsection (a) 
        shall be--
                    (A) an amount that is consistent with the Bureau of 
                Land Management special pricing program for Governmental 
                entities under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act; 
                and
                    (B) an agreement between the Secretaries of the 
                Interior and Agriculture and San Juan College 
                indemnifying the Government of the United States from 
                all liability of the Government that arises from the 
                property.
            (2) The lands conveyed by this Act shall be used for 
        educational and recreational purposes. If such lands cease to be 
        used for such purposes, at the option of the United States, such 
        lands will revert to the United States.
            (3) The Secretary of Agriculture shall identify any 
        reservations of rights-of-way for ingress, egress, and utilities 
        as the Secretary deems appropriate.
            (4) The conveyance described in subsection (a) shall be 
        subject to valid existing rights.

[[Page 113 STAT. 978]]

    (d) Land Withdrawals.--Public Land Order 3443, only insofar as it 
pertains to lands described in subsections (a) and (b), shall be revoked 
simultaneous with the conveyance of the property under subsection (a).

    Approved October 6, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 293 (H.R. 695):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-256 accompanying H.R. 695 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-17 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Mar. 25, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 27, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>