[106th Congress Public Law 466]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ466.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2024]]

Public Law 106-466
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain irrigation 
 facilities to the Nampa and Meridian Irrigation District. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                         7, 2000 -  [S. 3022]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Nampa and Meridian 
Conveyance Act.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Nampa and Meridian Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF FACILITIES.

    The Secretary of the Interior (in this Act referred to as the 
``Secretary'') shall, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, convey facilities to the Nampa and Meridian Irrigation 
District (in this Act referred to as the ``District'') in accordance 
with all applicable laws and pursuant to the terms of the Memorandum of 
Agreement (contract No. 1425-99MA102500, dated 7 July 1999) between the 
Secretary and the District. The conveyance of facilities shall include 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to any 
portion of the canals, laterals, drains, and any other portion of the 
water distribution and drainage system that is operated or maintained by 
the District for delivery of water to and drainage of water from lands 
within the boundaries of the District.

SEC. 3. LIABILITY.

    Except <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  as otherwise provided by law, 
effective on the date of conveyance of facilities under this Act, the 
United States shall not be liable for damages of any kind arising out of 
any act, omission, or occurrence based on its prior ownership or 
operation of the conveyed property.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2025]]

SEC. 4. EXISTING RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED.

    Nothing in this Act affects the rights of any person except as 
provided in this Act. No water rights shall be transferred, modified, or 
otherwise affected by the conveyance of facilities and interests to the 
Nampa and Meridian Irrigation District under this Act. Such conveyance 
shall not affect or abrogate any provision of any contract executed by 
the United States or State law regarding any irrigation district's right 
to use water developed in the facilities conveyed.

    Approved November 7, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 3022:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-480 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 13, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 23, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>