[106th Congress Public Law 221]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ221.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 351]]

Public Law 106-221
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain works, 
facilities, and titles of the Gila Project, and designated lands within 
 or adjacent to the Gila Project, to the Wellton-Mohawk Irrigation and 
               Drainage District, and for other purposes.

<<NOTE: June 20, 2000 -  [S. 356]>>     Be it enacted by the Senate and 
House of Representatives of the United States of America in 
Congress <<NOTE: Wellton-Mohawk Transfer Act.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be referred to as the ``Wellton-Mohawk Transfer Act''.

SEC. 2. TRANSFER.

    The Secretary of the Interior (``Secretary'') is authorized to carry 
out the terms of the Memorandum of Agreement No. 8-AA-34-WAO14 
(``Agreement'') dated July 10, 1998 between the Secretary and the 
Wellton-Mohawk Irrigation and Drainage District (``District'') providing 
for the transfer of works, facilities, and lands to the District, 
including conveyance of Acquired Lands, Public Lands, and Withdrawn 
Lands, as defined in the Agreement.

SEC. 3. WATER AND POWER CONTRACTS.

    Notwithstanding the transfer, the Secretary and the Secretary of 
Energy shall provide for and deliver Colorado River water and Parker-
Davis Project Priority Use Power to the District in accordance with the 
terms of existing contracts with the District, including any amendments 
or supplements thereto or extensions thereof and as provided under 
section 2 of the Agreement.

SEC. 4. SAVINGS.

    Nothing in this Act shall affect any obligations under the Colorado 
River Basin Salinity Control Act (Public Law 93-320, 43 U.S.C. 1571).

SEC. 5. REPORT.

    If transfer <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of works, facilities, and lands 
pursuant to the Agreement has not occurred by July 1, 2000, the 
Secretary shall report on the status of the transfer as provided in 
section 5 of the Agreement.

[[Page 114 STAT. 352]]

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.

    Approved June 20, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 356 :
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-21 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Mar. 25, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    June 6, 7, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>