[106th Congress Public Law 455]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ455.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1953]]

Public Law 106-455
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To address resource management issues in Glacier Bay National Park, 
               Alaska. <<NOTE: Nov. 7, 2000 -  [S. 501]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Glacier Bay 
National Park Resource Management Act of 2000.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Glacier Bay National Park Resource 
Management Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act--
            (1) the term ``local residents'' means those persons living 
        within the vicinity of Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve, 
        including but not limited to the residents of Hoonah, Alaska, 
        who are descendants of those who had an historic and cultural 
        tradition of sea gull egg gathering within the boundary of what 
        is now Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve;
            (2) the term ``outer waters'' means all of the marine waters 
        within the park outside of Glacier Bay proper;
            (3) the term ``park'' means Glacier Bay National Park;
            (4) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior; and
            (5) the term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>> COMMERCIAL FISHING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall allow for commercial fishing in 
the outer waters of the park in accordance with the management plan 
referred to in subsection (b) in a manner that provides for the 
protection of park resources and values.
    (b) Management Plan.--The Secretary and the State shall cooperate in 
the development of a management plan for the regulation of commercial 
fisheries in the outer waters of the park in accordance with existing 
Federal and State laws and any applicable international conservation and 
management treaties.
    (c) Savings.--(1) Nothing in this Act shall alter or affect the 
provisions of section 123 of the Department of the Interior and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-277), 
as amended by section 501 of the 1999 Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31).
    (2) Nothing in this Act shall enlarge or diminish Federal or State 
title, jurisdiction, or authority with respect to the waters of the 
State of Alaska, the waters within Glacier Bay National Park and 
Preserve, or tidal or submerged lands.
    (d) Study.--(1) Not later than one year after the date funds are 
made available, the Secretary, in consultation with the State,

[[Page 114 STAT. 1954]]

the National Marine Fisheries Service, the International Pacific Halibut 
Commission, and other affected agencies shall develop a plan for a 
comprehensive multi-agency research and monitoring program to evaluate 
the health of fisheries resources in the park's marine waters, to 
determine the effect, if any, of commercial fishing on--
            (A) the productivity, diversity, and sustainability of 
        fishery resources in such waters; and
            (B) park resources and values.

    (2) The Secretary shall promptly notify the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives upon the 
completion of the plan.
    (3) The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary shall complete the program set 
forth in the plan not later than seven years after the date the 
congressional committees are notified pursuant to paragraph (2), and 
shall transmit the results of the program to such committees on a 
biennial basis.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>> SEA GULL EGG COLLECTION STUDY.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary, in consultation with local residents, 
shall undertake a study of sea gulls living within the park to assess 
whether sea gull eggs can be collected on a limited basis without 
impairing the biological sustainability of the sea gull population in 
the park. The study shall be completed no later than two years after the 
date funds are made available.
    (b) Recommendations.--If the study referred to in subsection (a) 
determines that the limited collection of sea gull eggs can occur 
without impairing the biological sustainability of the sea gull 
population in the park, the Secretary shall submit recommendations for 
legislation to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
United States Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United States 
House of Representatives.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh-4 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
carry out this Act.

    Approved November 7, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 501:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-128 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Oct. 23, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>