[106th Congress Public Law 485]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ485.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2199]]

Public Law 106-485
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain land under the 
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management in Washakie County and Big 
Horn County, Wyoming, to the Westside Irrigation District, Wyoming, and 
         for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [S. 610]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE.

    (a) In General.--On completion of an environmental analysis under 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), 
the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau 
of Land Management (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary''), shall 
convey to the Westside Irrigation District, Wyoming (referred to in this 
Act as ``Westside''), all right, title, and interest (excluding the 
mineral interest) of the United States in and to such portions of the 
Federal land in Big Horn County and Washakie County, Wyoming, described 
in subsection (c), as the district enters into an agreement with the 
Secretary to purchase.
    (b) Price.--The price of the land conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be equal to the appraised value of the land, as determined by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Land Description.--
            (1) In general.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
        the approximately 16,500 acres of land in Big Horn County and 
        Washakie County, Wyoming, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Westside Project'' and dated May 9, 2000.
            (2) Adjustment.--On agreement of the Secretary and Westside, 
        acreage may be added to or subtracted from the land to be 
        conveyed as necessary to satisfy any mitigation requirements 
        under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
        4321 et seq.).

[[Page 114 STAT. 2200]]

    (d) Use of Proceeds.--Proceeds of the sale of land under subsection 
(a) shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the 
United States and shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior, 
without further Act of appropriation, for the acquisition of land and 
interests in land in the Worland District of the Bureau of Land 
Management in the State of Wyoming that will benefit public recreation, 
public access, fish and wildlife habitat, or cultural resources.

    Approved November 9, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 610:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-313 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 27, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 23, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>