[106th Congress Public Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ006.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 10]]

Public Law 106-6
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Airport Improvement Program for 2 months, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 31, 1999 -  [S. 643]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Interim Federal 
Aviation Administration Authorization Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT <<NOTE: 49 USC 40101 note.>> TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Interim Federal Aviation 
Administration Authorization Act''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 48103 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking from ``$1,205,000,000'' 
through the period and inserting ``$1,607,000,000 for the 8-month period 
beginning October 1, 1998.''.
    (b) Obligational Authority.--Section 47104(c) of such title is 
amended by striking ``March'' and inserting ``May''.
    (c) Liquidation-of-Contract Authorization.--The Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 <<NOTE: 112 
Stat. 2681-445.>> is amended by striking the last proviso under the 
heading ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports, (Liquidation of Contract 
Authorization), (Airport and Airway Trust Fund)'' and inserting 
``Provided further, That not more than $1,300,000,000 of funds limited 
under this heading may be obligated before the enactment of a law 
extending contract authorization for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports 
Program beyond May 31, 1999.''.

SEC. 3. AIRWAY FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

    Section 48101(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end thereof the following:
            ``(3) $2,131,000,000 for fiscal year 1999.''.

SEC. 4. FAA OPERATIONS.

    Section 106(k) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking from ``$5,158,000,000'' through the period and inserting 
``$5,632,000,000 for fiscal year 1999.''.

SEC. 5. REMOVAL OF THE CAP ON DISCRETIONARY FUND.

    Section 47115(g) <<NOTE: 49 USC 47115.>> is amended by striking 
paragraph (4).

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF AVIATION INSURANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 44310 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``March'' and inserting ``May''.

SEC. 7. MILITARY AIRPORT PROGRAM.

    Section 124 of the Federal Aviation Reauthorization Act of 
1996 <<NOTE: 49 USC 47117.>> is amended by striking subsection (d).

[[Page 113 STAT. 11]]

SEC. 8. DISCRETIONARY FUND DEFINITION.

    (a) Amendment of Section 47115.--Section 47115 of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``25'' in subsection (a) and inserting 
        ``12.5''; and
            (2) by striking the second sentence in subsection (b).

    (b) Amendment of Section  47116.--Section 47116 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``75'' in subsection (a) and inserting 
        ``87.5'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) in subsection 
        (b) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and inserting 
        before subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, the following:
            ``(1) one-seventh for grants for projects at small hub 
        airports (as defined in section 41731 of this title); and
            ``(2) the remaining amounts based on the following:''.

SEC. 9. RELEASE OF 10 PERCENT OF MWAA FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 49106(c)(6)(C) and 49108 
of title 49, United States Code, the Secretary of Transportation may 
approve an application of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority 
(an application that is pending at the Department of Transportation on 
March 17, 1999) for expenditure or obligation of up to $30,000,000 of 
the amount that otherwise would have been available to the Authority for 
passenger facility fee/airport development project grants under 
subchapter I of chapter 471 of such title.
    (b) Limitation.--The Authority may not execute contracts, for 
applications approved under subsection (a), that obligate or expend 
amounts totalling more than the amount for which the Secretary may 
approve applications under that subsection, except to the extent that 
funding for amounts in excess of that amount are from other authority or 
sources.

    Approved March 31, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 643 (H.R. 99):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-3 accompanying H.R. 99 (Comm. on Transportation 
and Infrastructure).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Mar. 17, considered and passed Senate.
            Mar. 24, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>