[106th Congress Private Law 17]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl017.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3113]]

Private Law 106-17
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Frances Schochenmaier and Mary Hudson. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                         22, 2000 -  [S. 785]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. RELIEF OF FRANCES SCHOCHENMAIER.

    The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, out of any moneys in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to Frances Schochenmaier of 
Bonesteel, South Dakota, the sum of $60,567.58 in compensation for the 
erroneous underpayment to Herman Schochenmaier, husband of Frances 
Schochenmaier, during the period from September 1945 to March 1995, of 
compensation and other benefits relating to a service-connected 
disability incurred by Herman Schochenmaier during military service in 
World War II.

SEC. 2. RELIEF OF MARY HUDSON.

    Notwithstanding section 5121(a) of title 38, United States Code, or 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall not 
recover from the estate of Wallace Hudson, formerly of Russellville, 
Alabama, or from Mary Hudson, the surviving spouse of Wallace Hudson, 
the sum of $97,253 paid to Wallace Hudson for compensation and other 
benefits relating to a service-connected disability incurred by Wallace 
Hudson during active military service in World War II, which payment was 
mailed by the Secretary to Wallace Hudson in January 2000 but was 
delivered after Wallace Hudson's death.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3114]]

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON FEES.

    (a) In General.--Not more than a total of 10 percent of the payment 
required by section 1 or retained under section 2 may be paid to or 
received by agents or attorneys for services rendered in connection with 
obtaining or retaining such payment, as the case may be, any contract to 
the contrary notwithstanding.
    (b) Violation.--Any person who violates subsection (a) shall be 
fined not more than $1,000.

    Approved November 22, 2000.