[105th Congress Public Law 174]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ174.105]


[[Page 57]]

          1998 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND RESCISSIONS ACT

[[Page 112 STAT. 58]]

Public Law 105-174
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1998, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: May 1, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                3579]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: 1998 Supplemental 
Appropriations and Rescissions Act.>>  assembled, That the following 
sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, and for 
other purposes, namely:

  TITLE I--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF 
                                 DEFENSE

                                CHAPTER 1

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$184,000,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$22,300,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$5,100,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$10,900,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the

[[Page 112 STAT. 59]]

Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                         Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$4,100,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$1,886,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$48,100,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $27,400,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $1,390,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.
    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $125,528,000, for emergency expenses resulting from natural 
disasters in the United States: Provided, That the Secretary of Defense 
may transfer these funds to current applicable operation and maintenance 
and working capital funds appropriations, to be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
appropriation to which transferred: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority provided in this provision is in addition to any transfer 
authority available to the Department of Defense: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement

[[Page 112 STAT. 60]]

pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $125,528,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $650,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $229,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $175,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

              Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Overseas Contingency Operations 
Transfer Fund'', $1,814,100,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds to fiscal year 
1998 appropriations for operation and maintenance, working capital 
funds, the Defense Health Program, procurement, and research, 
development, test and evaluation: Provided further, That the funds 
transferred shall be merged with and shall be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period as the appropriation to which 
transferred, except that funds made available for or transferred to 
classified programs shall remain available until September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
heading is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in 
Public Law 105-56.

[[Page 112 STAT. 61]]

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                        Navy Working Capital Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Navy Working Capital Fund'', 
$23,017,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    Defense-Wide Working Capital Fund

    For an additional amount for ``Defense-Wide Working Capital Fund'', 
$1,000,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', $1,900,000: 
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Section 1. In addition to the amounts provided in Public Law 105-56, 
$36,500,000 is appropriated under the heading ``Overseas Humanitarian, 
Disaster, and Civic <<NOTE: Grants. American Red Cross.>>  Aid'': 
Provided, That from the funds made available under that heading, the 
Secretary of Defense shall make a grant in the amount of $16,500,000 to 
the American Red Cross for Armed Forces emergency services: Provided 
further, That from the funds made available under that heading, the 
Secretary of Defense shall make a grant in the amount of $20,000,000 to 
the American Red Cross for reimbursement for disaster relief and 
recovery expenditures at overseas locations: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $36,500,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

    Sec. 2. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).
    Sec. 3. In addition to the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Defense under Public Law 105-56, there is hereby appropriated 
$47,000,000 for the ``Reserve Mobilization Income Insurance Fund'', to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement

[[Page 112 STAT. 62]]

pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $47,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress.
    Sec. 4. The President is urged to encourage other nations who are 
allies and friends of the United States to contribute to the burden 
being borne by the United States in preventing the government of Iraq 
from using Weapons of Mass Destruction, which pose a threat to the world 
community. The President is also urged to seek financial, in-kind and 
other contributions to help defray the costs being incurred by the 
United States in this operation. For this purpose, a special account 
shall be established in the Treasury which will accept such financial 
contributions, and from which funds will be subject to obligation 
through the normal appropriations process. <<NOTE: Reports. Records.>>  
The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of 
State, shall provide a report to the Congress within 60 days after 
enactment as to the status of this effort, and shall make a 
comprehensive account of the efforts made and results obtained to share 
the burden of the common <<NOTE: Reports.>>  defense. The Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall report to the Congress within 
30 days as to the establishment of such burden-sharing account in the 
Department of the Treasury.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 5. (a) Quality <<NOTE: Establishment.>>  Assurance Report on 
Military Health Care.--The Secretary of Defense shall appoint an 
independent panel of experts to evaluate recent measures taken by the 
Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs and the 
Surgeons General of the Army, Navy and Air Force to improve the quality 
of care provided by the Military Health Services System.

    (b) Membership.--(1) The panel shall be composed of nine members 
appointed by the Secretary of Defense. At least five of those members 
shall be persons who are highly qualified in the medical arts, have 
experience in setting health care standards, and possess a demonstrated 
understanding of the military health care system and its unique mission 
requirements. The remaining members shall be persons who are current 
beneficiaries of the Military Health Services System.
    (2) The Secretary shall designate one member to serve as chairperson 
of the panel.
    (3) The Secretary shall appoint the members of this panel not later 
than 45 days after enactment of this Act.
    (c) Functions of the Panel.--The panel shall review the Department 
of Defense Access and Quality Improvement Initiative announced in early 
1998 (together with other related quality improvement actions) to assess 
whether all reasonable measures have been taken to ensure that the 
Military Health Services System delivers health care services in 
accordance with consistently high professional standards. The panel 
shall specifically assess actions of the Department to accomplish the 
following objectives of that initiative and related management actions:
            (1) upgrade professional education and training requirements 
        for military physicians and other health care providers;

[[Page 112 STAT. 63]]

            (2) establish ``Centers of Excellence'' for complicated 
        surgical procedures;
            (3) make timely <<NOTE: Reports.>>  and complete reports to 
        the National Practitioner Data Bank and eliminate associated 
        reporting backlogs;
            (4) assure that Military Health Services System providers 
        are properly licensed and have appropriate credentials;
            (5) reestablish the Quality Management Report to aid in 
        early identification of compliance problems;
            (6) improve communications with beneficiaries to provide 
        comprehensive and objective information on the quality of care 
        being provided;
            (7) strengthen the National Quality Management Program;
            (8) ensure that all laboratory work meets professional 
        standards; and
            (9) ensure the accuracy of patient data and information.

    (d) Report.--Not later than six months after the date on which the 
panel is established, the panel shall submit to the Secretary a report 
setting forth its findings and conclusions, and the reasons therefor, 
and such recommendations it deems appropriate. The Secretary shall 
forward the report of the panel to Congress not later than 15 days after 
the date on which the Secretary receives it, together with the 
Secretary's comments on the report.
    (e) Panel Administration.--(1) The members of the panel shall be 
allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
rates authorized by law for employees of agencies while away from their 
homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for 
the panel.
    (2) Upon request of the chairperson of the panel, the Secretary of 
Defense may detail to the panel, on a nonreimbursable basis, personnel 
of the Department of Defense to assist the panel in carrying out its 
duties. The Secretary of Defense shall furnish to the panel such 
administrative and support services as may be requested by the chairman 
of the panel.
    (f) Panel Financing.--Of the funds appropriated in Public Law 105-56 
for ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', $4,700,000 
shall be transferred to ``Defense Health Program'', to be available 
through fiscal year 1999, only for administrative costs of this panel 
and for the express purpose of initiating or accelerating any activity 
identified by the panel that will improve the quality of health care 
provided by the Military Health Services System.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 6. Of the funds appropriated in Public Law 105-56, under the 
heading ``Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense'' for 
Operation and maintenance, $40,000,000 shall be transferred to 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide''.
    Sec. 7. (a) Congress urges the President to seek concurrence among 
the members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) on 
arrangements that set forth--
            (1) the benchmarks for achieving a sustainable peace process 
        that are detailed in the report accompanying the certification 
        that was made by the President to Congress on March 3, 1998;
            (2) estimated target dates for achieving the benchmarks; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 64]]

            (3) a process for NATO to review progress toward achieving 
        the benchmarks.

    (b) The President <<NOTE: President. Reports.>>  shall submit to 
Congress--
            (1) not later than June 30, 1998, a report on efforts to 
        gain agreement on arrangements described in subsection (a), and 
        such report should include an explanation of the 
        Administration's view of whether it would promote United States 
        interests to adopt firm schedules or deadlines for achieving 
        such benchmarks; and
            (2) semiannually after that report, so long as United States 
        ground combat forces continue to participate in the 
        Stabilization Force for Bosnia (SFOR), a report on the progress 
        made toward achieving the benchmarks referred to in subsection 
        (a)(1), including any developments which may affect the ability 
        of the relevant parties to achieve the benchmarks in a timely 
        manner.

    (c) The Congress urges the President to ensure that efforts to meet 
the estimated target dates described in this section do not jeopardize 
the safety of United States Armed Forces in Bosnia.
    (d) The enactment of this section does not reflect approval or 
disapproval of the benchmarks submitted by the President in the 
certification to Congress transmitted on March 3, 1998.
    Sec. 8. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of a 
person who is selected for training in a State program conducted under 
the National Guard Challenge Program and who obtains a general education 
diploma in connection with such training, the general education diploma 
shall be treated as equivalent to a high school diploma for purposes of 
determining the eligibility of the person for enlistment in the Armed 
Forces.
    Sec. 9. In addition to the amounts provided in Public Law 105-56, 
$179,000,000 is appropriated under the heading ``Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'': Provided, That the additional 
amount shall be made available for enhancements to selected theater 
missile defense programs to counter enhanced ballistic missile threats: 
Provided further, That of the additional amount appropriated, 
$45,000,000 shall be made available only for the purpose of adjusting 
the cost-share of the parties under the Agreement between the Department 
of Defense and the Ministry of Defence of Israel for the Arrow 
Deployability Program: Provided further, That of the additional amount 
appropriated, $38,000,000 shall be made available only for the Sea-Based 
Wide Area Defense (Navy Upper-Tier) Program: Provided further, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $179,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    Sec. 10. (a)(1) The Secretary of Defense may enter into a lease or 
acquire any other interest in the parcels of land described in paragraph 
(2). The parcels consist in aggregate of approximately 90 acres.
    (2) The parcels of land referred to in paragraph (1) are the 
following land used for the commercial production of cranberries:

[[Page 112 STAT. 65]]

            (A) The parcels known as the Mashpee bogs, located on the 
        Quashnet River adjacent to the Massachusetts Military 
        Reservation, Massachusetts.
            (B) The parcels known as the Falmouth bogs, located on the 
        Coonamessett River adjacent to the Massachusetts Military 
        Reservation, Massachusetts.

    (3) The term of any lease or other interest acquired under paragraph 
(1) may not exceed two years.
    (4) Any lease or other real property interest acquired under 
paragraph (1) shall be subject to such other terms and conditions as are 
agreed upon jointly by the Secretary and the person or entity entering 
into the lease or extending the interest.
    (b) Of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 1998, up to $2,000,000 may be 
available to acquire interest under subsection (a).
    Sec. 11. In addition to the amounts provided in Public Law 105-56, 
$272,500,000 is appropriated under the heading ``Aircraft Procurement, 
Navy'': Provided, That the additional amount shall be made available 
only for the procurement of eight F/A-18 aircraft for the United States 
Marine Corps: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for 
$272,500,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    Sec. 12. Funds appropriated in fiscal year 1997, 1998 and hereafter 
for the Pacific Disaster Center may be obligated to carry out such 
missions as the Secretary of Defense may specify for disaster 
information management supporting mitigation, preparedness, response and 
recovery from this Federal facility and assuring critical infrastructure 
availability and humanitarian assistance at the Federal, State, local 
and regional levels in the geographic area of responsibility of the 
Commander in Chief, Pacific and beyond in support of the Global Disaster 
Information Network as appropriate.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 13. Of the funds provided in Public Law 105-56 for ``Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', $300,000 shall be transferred 
to ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'': Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Grants.>>  the Secretary of Defense shall make grants from 
the ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' account in the total 
amount of not to exceed $300,000 to the Outdoor Odyssey at Roaring Run 
to initiate a youth development and leadership program.

    Sec. 14. Notwithstanding section 7306 of title 10 United States 
Code, and any other provision of law, of the funds made available to the 
Department of the Navy by Public Law 105-56, $3,000,000 may be used only 
for disposal of residual fuel contained on the U.S.S. Alabama.
    Sec. 15. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for the Defense Health Program for fiscal year 1998 may be 
used to provide health benefits under section 1086 of title 10, United 
States Code, to a person who is described in paragraph

[[Page 112 STAT. 66]]

(1) of subsection (d) of such section, would be eligible for health 
benefits under such section in the absence of such paragraph (1), and 
satisfies the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) 
of such subsection (d), if the Secretary of Defense considers that the 
provision of health benefits under such section is appropriate to ensure 
health care coverage for such a person who may have been unaware of the 
termination of the person's eligibility for such health benefits.

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 16. In addition to the amounts provided in Public Law 105-56, 
$28,000,000, to remain available until expended, is appropriated and 
shall be available for deposit in the International Trust Fund of the 
Republic of Slovenia, Mine Clearance, and Assistance to Mine Victims in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the ``Fund'') and other land mine-affected 
countries in the region: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request, for a specific 
dollar amount, that includes a designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted to the Congress 
by the President: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act: Provided further, That the amount designated 
as an emergency shall be transferred to the Department of State for 
administration: Provided further, That such amount may be deposited in 
the Fund in two equal annual installments, upon emergency designation, 
only if the President certifies annually to the Congress of the United 
States that such amounts could be used effectively and for objectives 
consistent with ongoing efforts to carry out humanitarian demining 
activities in and around Bosnia: Provided further, That such amount may 
be deposited in the Fund only to the extent of deposits of matching 
amounts in that Fund by other governments, entities, or persons.
    Sec. 17. It is the sense of the Congress that none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be made 
available for the conduct of offensive operations by United States Armed 
Forces against Iraq for the purpose of obtaining compliance by Iraq with 
United Nations Security Council Resolutions relating to inspection and 
destruction of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq unless such 
operations are specifically authorized by a law enacted after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 18. Cavalese, Italy Air Tragedy.--The United States Congress 
expresses regret and extends its deepest sympathies to the families of 
the victims for the tragic incident involving Marine Corps aircraft near 
Cavalese, Italy on <<NOTE: Claims.>>  February 3, 1998. The Secretary of 
Defense shall make available on a timely basis all legal and other 
technical assistance necessary to facilitate the expeditious processing 
and resolution of legitimate claims for wrongful death, loss of business 
and profits, and property damage under the procedures set forth under 
the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. The Secretary of Defense shall 
ensure that any claim to replace the destroyed funicular system before 
the upcoming winter tourist season be considered on a priority basis.

[[Page 112 STAT. 67]]

                                CHAPTER 2

              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army National 
Guard'' to cover costs arising from storm related damage, $3,700,000, to 
be available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of 
the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine 
Corps'' to cover costs arising from Typhoon Paka related damage, 
$15,600,000: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine 
Corps'' to cover costs arising from El Nino related damage, $2,500,000, 
to be available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of 
the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided, That the entire 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Air Force'' to cover 
costs arising from Typhoon Paka related damage, $1,500,000: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Air Force'' to cover 
costs arising from El Nino related damage, $900,000, to be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar 
amount that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as 
an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 68]]

             Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part III

    For an additional amount for ``Base Realignment and Closure Account, 
Part III'' to cover costs arising from El Nino related damage, 
$1,020,000, to be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 20. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, using amounts 
appropriated in Public Law 104-196 for ``Military Construction, Navy'', 
for the military construction project for North Island Naval Air 
Station, California, and contributions (if any) provided by the State of 
California and local governments to support that project, the Secretary 
of the Navy, in cooperation with local governments, shall carry out 
beach replenishment in connection with that project using sand obtained 
from any location. The contributions (if any) provided by the State of 
California and local governments shall be available only for beach 
replenishment activities performed after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

             TITLE II--EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of 
emergency insured loans authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, for 
losses in fiscal year 1998 resulting from natural disasters, 
$87,400,000.
    For the additional cost of emergency insured loans, including the 
cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, $21,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $21,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

                     emergency conservation program

    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'' 
for expenses resulting from natural disasters,

[[Page 112 STAT. 69]]

$30,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $30,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.
    For an additional amount for the ``Emergency Conservation Program'' 
to provide cost-sharing assistance to maple producers to replace taps 
and tubing that were damaged by ice storms in northeastern States in 
1998, $4,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
entire amount shall be available only to the extent that an official 
budget request for $4,000,000, that includes designation of the entire 
amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That 
the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                         tree assistance program

    An amount of $14,000,000 is provided for assistance to replace or 
rehabilitate trees, excluding trees used for pulp and/or timber, and 
vineyards damaged by natural disasters: Provided, That the entire amount 
shall be available only to the extent that an official budget request 
for $14,000,000, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  livestock disaster assistance program

    Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  only for losses incurred 
beginning on November 27, 1997, through the date of enactment of this 
Act, $4,000,000 to implement a livestock indemnity program to compensate 
producers for losses of livestock (including ratites) due to natural 
disasters designated pursuant to a Presidential or Secretarial 
declaration requested during such a period in a manner similar to 
catastrophic loss coverage available for other commodities under 7 
U.S.C. 1508(b): Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent that an official budget request for $4,000,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 70]]

              dairy production disaster assistance program

    Effective only for <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  natural disasters 
beginning on November 27, 1997, through the date of enactment of this 
Act, $6,800,000 to implement a dairy production indemnity program to 
compensate producers at a payment rate of $4.00 per hundredweight for 
losses of milk that had been produced but not marketed or for diminished 
production (including diminished future production due to mastitis) due 
to natural disasters designated pursuant to a Presidential or 
Secretarial declaration requested during such period: Provided, That 
payments for diminished production shall be determined on a per head 
basis derived from a comparison to a like production period from the 
previous year, the disaster period is 180 days starting with the date of 
the disasters and the payment rate shall be $4.00 per hundredweight of 
milk: Provided further, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent that an official budget request for $6,800,000, that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'' to repair damages to the waterways and watersheds resulting 
from natural disasters, $80,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the extent 
that an official budget request for $80,000,000, that includes 
designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
such Act.

                                CHAPTER 2

                    United States Information Agency

                  international broadcasting operations

    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999, 
for a grant to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty for surrogate radio 
broadcasting to the Iraqi people: Provided, That such broadcasting shall 
be designated ``Radio Free <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Iraq'': Provided further, 
That within 30 days of enactment into law of this Act the Broadcasting 
Board of Governors shall submit a detailed report to the appropriate 
committees of Congress on plans to establish a surrogate broadcasting 
service to Iraq: Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That the entire

[[Page 112 STAT. 71]]

amount shall be available only to the extent that an official budget 
request for a specific dollar amount, that includes designation of the 
entire amount of the request as an emergency requirement as defined in 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to Congress.

                                CHAPTER 3

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                   operation and maintenance, general

    For emergency repairs due to flooding and other natural disasters, 
$105,185,000, to remain available until expended, of which such amounts 
for eligible navigation projects which may be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund pursuant to Public Law 99-662, shall be derived 
from that Fund: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only 
to the extent an official budget request for a specific dollar amount 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Bureau of Reclamation

                       water and related resources

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Related Resources'' to 
repair damage caused by floods and other natural disasters, $4,520,000, 
to remain available until expended, which shall be available only to the 
extent that an official budget request for a specific dollar amount that 
includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to 
Congress: Provided, That the entire amount is designated by Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

[[Page 112 STAT. 72]]

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $1,837,000, to remain 
available until expended, to repair damage caused by floods and other 
natural disasters: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request that includes 
designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $32,818,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damage caused by floods and 
other natural disasters: Provided, That of such amount, $29,130,000 
shall be available only to the extent that an official budget request 
that includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency 
requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the 
Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended.

                          National Park Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'' to repair damage 
caused by floods and other natural disasters, $9,506,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such 
Act.

                     United States Geological Survey

                  surveys, investigations, and research

    For an additional amount for ``Surveys, Investigations, and 
Research'' for emergency expenses resulting from floods and other 
natural disasters, $1,198,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to the

[[Page 112 STAT. 73]]

extent that an official budget request that includes designation of the 
entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $1,065,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $700,000 is to repair damage caused 
by floods and other natural disasters, and $365,000 is for replacement 
of fixtures and testing for and remediation of Polylchlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs) in Bureau of Indian Affairs schools and administrative 
facilities: Provided, That the entire amount shall be available only to 
the extent that an official budget request that includes designation of 
the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That the 
entire amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                       state and private forestry

    For an additional amount for ``State and Private Forestry'' for 
emergency expenses resulting from damages from ice storms, tornadoes and 
other natural disasters, $48,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of such amount, $28,000,000 shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request that includes 
designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for the ``National Forest System'' for 
emergency expenses resulting from damages from ice storms, tornadoes and 
other natural disasters, $10,461,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of such amount, $5,461,000 shall be available 
only to the extent that an official budget request that includes 
designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as defined 
in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided 
further, That the entire amount

[[Page 112 STAT. 74]]

is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                        wildland fire management

    For an additional amount for ``Wildland Fire Management'' for 
emergency expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on National 
Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or adjacent to 
such lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, and for 
emergency rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System lands, in 
response to damages caused by windstorms in Texas, $2,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the entire amount shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request that 
includes designation of the entire amount as an emergency requirement as 
defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                       Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    The paragraph under this heading in <<NOTE: 111 Stat. 1580.>>  
Public Law 105-83 is 
amended by inserting before the period ``: Provided further, That the 
drawdown and sale of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve shall be 
prohibited to the extent that such actions are determined by the 
President to be imprudent in light of current market conditions and that 
an official budget request for a prohibition of the drawdown and sale of 
oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and including a designation of 
the entire request and the $207,500,000 of revenue foregone as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act''.

                                CHAPTER 5

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Highway Administration

                          federal-aid highways

                        emergency relief program

                          (highway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for the Emergency Relief Program for 
emergency expenses resulting from floods and other natural disasters, as 
authorized by 23 U.S.C. 125, $259,000,000, to be derived from the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the entire amount is designated

[[Page 112 STAT. 75]]

by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That of such amount, $35,000,000 shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific dollar amount that includes designation of the entire amount of 
the request as an emergency requirement as defined in such Act is 
transmitted by the President to the Congress: Provided further, That any 
obligations for the Emergency Relief Program shall not be subject to the 
prohibition against obligations in section 2(e)(3)(A) and (D) of the 
Surface Transportation Extension Act of 1997: Provided further, That 23 
U.S.C. 125(b)(1) shall not apply to projects resulting from flooding 
during the fall of 1997 through the winter of 1998 in California: 
Provided further, That if sufficient carryover balances for the 
necessary expenses for administration and operation (including motor 
carrier safety program operations) of the Federal Highway 
Administration, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and 
the Bureau of Transportation Statistics are not available, and pending 
the reauthorization of the Federal-aid highways program, the Secretary 
of Transportation may borrow such sums as may be necessary for such 
expenses from the unobligated balances of discretionary allocations for 
the Federal-aid highways program made available by this Act.

                     Federal Railroad Administration

              emergency railroad rehabilitation and repair

    For necessary expenses to repair and rebuild freight rail lines of 
regional and short line railroads or a State entity damaged by floods 
that occurred between and including September 1996 and March 1998, 
$9,800,000, to be awarded to the States subject to the discretion of the 
Secretary on a case-by-case basis: Provided, That funds provided under 
this heading shall be available for rehabilitation of railroad rights-
of-way, bridges, and other facilities which are part of the general 
railroad system of transportation, and primarily used by railroads to 
move freight traffic: Provided further, That railroad rights-of-way, 
bridges, and other facilities owned by class I railroads are not 
eligible for funding under this heading unless the rights-of-way, 
bridges, or other facilities are under contract lease to a class II or 
class III railroad under which the lessee is responsible for all 
maintenance costs of the line: Provided further, That railroad rights-
of-way, bridges, and other facilities owned by passenger railroads, or 
by tourist, scenic, or historic railroads are not eligible for funding 
under this heading: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available only to the extent an official budget request, for a specific 
dollar amount, that includes designation of the entire amount as an 
emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, That all funds made available under this 
heading are to remain available until September 30, 1998.

[[Page 112 STAT. 76]]

                                CHAPTER 6

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                   Community Planning and Development

                   community development block grants

    For an additional amount for ``Community development block grants'', 
as authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act 
of 1974, $130,000,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
2001, for use only for disaster relief, long-term recovery, and 
mitigation in communities affected by Presidentially-declared natural 
disasters designated during fiscal year 1998, except for those 
activities reimbursable by or for which funds are made available by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration, 
or the Army Corps of Engineers: Provided, That in administering these 
amounts and except as provided in the next proviso, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development (the Secretary) may waive or specify 
alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation 
that the Secretary administers in connection with the obligation by the 
Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds, except for 
statutory requirements related to civil rights, fair housing and 
nondiscrimination, the environment, and labor standards, upon a finding 
that such waiver is required to facilitate the use of such funds and 
would not be inconsistent with the overall purpose of the statute: 
Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the requirements that 
activities benefit persons of low- and moderate-income, except that at 
least 50 percent of the funds under this heading must benefit primarily 
persons of low- and moderate-income unless the Secretary makes a finding 
of compelling need: Provided further, That all funds under this heading 
shall be allocated by the Secretary to States to be administered by each 
State in conjunction with its Federal Emergency Management Agency 
program or its community development block grants program or by the 
entity designated by its Chief Executive Officer to administer the HOME 
Investment Partnerships Program: Provided further, That each State shall 
provide not less than 25 percent in non-Federal public matching funds or 
its equivalent value (other than administrative costs) for any funds 
allocated to the State under this heading: Provided further, That, in 
conjunction with the Director of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, the Secretary shall allocate funds based on the unmet needs 
identified by the Director as those which have not or will not be 
addressed by other Federal disaster assistance programs: Provided 
further, That, in conjunction with the Director, the Secretary shall 
utilize annual disaster cost estimates in order that the funds under 
this heading shall be available, to the maximum extent feasible, to 
assist States with all Presidentially declared disasters designated 
during this fiscal year: Provided further, That the <<NOTE: Federal 
Register, publication.>>  Secretary shall publish a notice in the 
Federal Register governing the allocation and use of the community 
development block grants funds made available under this heading for 
disaster areas: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Records.>>  10 days prior 
to distribution of funds, the Secretary and the Director shall submit a 
list to the House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees on VA, HUD and 
Independent Agencies, setting forth the proposed uses of funds and the 
most recent estimates of unmet

[[Page 112 STAT. 77]]

needs (including all uses of waivers and the reasons therefore): 
Provided further, That the Secretary <<NOTE: Reports.>>  and the 
Director shall submit quarterly reports to the Subcommittees regarding 
the actual projects, localities and needs for which funds have been 
provided: Provided further, That these reports shall be based upon 
quarterly reports submitted to HUD and the Director by each State 
receiving funds under this heading: Provided further, That the entire 
amount shall be available only to the extent an official budget request, 
that includes designation of the entire amount of the request as an 
emergency requirement as defined by the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by the President 
to the Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985, as amended.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                             disaster relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster relief '', $1,600,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That these funds shall be 
available only to the extent that an official budget request for a 
specific amount, that includes designation of the entire amount of the 
request as an emergency requirement as defined in the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, is transmitted by 
the President to Congress: Provided further, That the entire amount 
appropriated herein is designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                                CHAPTER 7

                               RESCISSIONS

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 49 U.S.C. 48103 as 
amended, $241,000,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 78]]

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                        Public and Indian Housing

                 section 8 reserve preservation account

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts recaptured under this heading during fiscal year 1998 
and prior years, $2,347,190,000 are rescinded.

                 TITLE III--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                         Office of the Secretary

    During fiscal year 1998, not to exceed $543,000 from funds available 
to the Secretary of Agriculture to provide compensation to agriculture 
producers and other persons under section 105(b) of the Federal Plant 
Pest Act (7 U.S.C. 150dd(b)) may be available for payments to any person 
who had wheat stored in a storage facility that was subject to an 
emergency action notice issued by the Secretary relating to the presence 
or presumed presence of Karnal bunt to compensate the person for 
economic losses incurred as a result of the effect of the notice on the 
operation of the storage facility (including wheat plowed under in 
calendar year 1996) after issuance of an emergency action notice due to 
Karnal bunt. The determination by the Secretary of the amount of any 
compensation to be paid under this section shall be final.

                       Departmental Administration

    For an additional amount for ``Departmental Administration'', 
$2,000,000.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the General Counsel'', 
$235,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                    inspection and weighing services

    For expenses necessary to recapitalize the revolving fund 
established under section 7(j)(1) of the United States Grain Standards 
Act (7 U.S.C. 79(j)(1)), $1,500,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
and guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: farm ownership loans, $43,320,000, of which

[[Page 112 STAT. 79]]

$25,000,000 shall be available for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$105,000,000, of which $35,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed 
loans; and for boll weevil eradication program loans as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1989, $18,814,000.
    For the additional cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, 
$3,356,000, of which $967,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating 
loans, $7,973,000, of which $3,374,000 shall be for subsidized 
guaranteed loans; and for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $222,000.

                           Food Stamp Program

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 105-
86, funds for employment and training shall remain available until 
expended as authorized by section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and expenses'' from fees 
collected pursuant to section 736 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act, not to exceed $25,918,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees derived from applications received during 
fiscal year 1998 shall be credited to the appropriation current in the 
year in which fees are collected and subject to the fiscal year 1998 
limitation.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1001. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, permanent 
employees of county committees employed during fiscal year 1998 pursuant 
to 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(b)) shall be considered as having Federal Civil Service status only 
for the purpose of applying for United States Department of Agriculture 
Civil Service vacancies.
    Sec. 1002. Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding a 
competitive research, education, or extension grant program of the 
Department of Agriculture, the Secretary may use grant program funds, as 
necessary, to supplement funds otherwise available for program 
administration, to pay for the costs associated with peer review of 
grant proposals under the program.

                                CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                       Departmental Administration

    Such additional amounts as necessary, not to exceed $5,408,000, to 
cover increases in the estimated amount of cost of Work For Others 
notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 
1511 et seq.): Provided, That such increases in cost

[[Page 112 STAT. 80]]

of Work For Others are offset by revenue increases of the same or 
greater amount derived from fees authorized by sections 31 and 33 of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2051 and 2053), to remain available 
until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2001. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, no fully 
allocated funding policy shall be applied to projects for which funds 
were identified in the Conference Report (House Report 105-271) 
accompanying the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1998, 
Public Law 105-62 (111 Stat. 1320 et seq.), under the Construction, 
General; Operation and Maintenance, General; and Flood Control, 
Mississippi River and Tributaries, appropriation accounts: Provided, 
That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
is directed to undertake these projects using continuing contracts, as 
authorized in section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of September 22, 
1922 (33 U.S.C. 621).
    Sec. 2002. The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use available funds, up to the maximum amount 
authorized per project under section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 
1948, as amended, to provide a level of enhanced flood protection at 
Elba, Alabama.
    Sec. 2003. Section 2 of the Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1996 
(Public Law 104-318; 110 Stat. 3862) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
    ``(c) Extension of Periods for Repayment.--Notwithstanding any 
provision of the Reclamation Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485 et 
seq.), the Secretary of the Interior--
            ``(1) shall extend the period <<NOTE: Texas.>>  for 
        repayment by the City of Corpus Christi, Texas, and the Nueces 
        River Authority under contract No. 6-07-01-x0675, relating to 
        the Nueces River reclamation project, Texas, until--
                    ``(A) August 1, 2029 for repayment pursuant to the 
                municipal and industrial water supply benefits portion 
                of the contract; and
                    ``(B) until August 1, 2044 for repayment pursuant to 
                the fish and wildlife and recreation benefits portion of 
                the contract; and
            ``(2) shall extend the period for repayment by the Canadian 
        River Municipal Water Authority under contract No. 14-06-500-485 
        relating to the Canadian River reclamation project, Texas, until 
        October 1, 2021.''.

    Sec. 2004. Section 303 of the Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-62), does not apply to the 
worker transition plan for the Pinellas Plant site.

                                CHAPTER 3

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          National Park Service

                  operation of the national park system

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of the National Park 
System'', $340,000, to remain available until expended, to provide for 
public access at Katmai National Park and Preserve and for

[[Page 112 STAT. 81]]

litigation costs related to the disposition of an allotment within the 
Park.

                       Minerals Management Service

                royalty and offshore minerals management

    For an additional amount for ``Royalty and Offshore Minerals 
Management'' to meet increased demand and workload requirements stemming 
from higher than anticipated leasing activity in the Gulf of Mexico, 
$6,675,000, to remain available until expended, to be derived from 
increased receipts resulting from increases to rates in effect on August 
5, 1993, from rate increases to fee collections for Outer Continental 
Shelf administrative activities performed by the Minerals Management 
Service over and above the rates in effect on September 30, 1993, and 
from additional fees for Outer Continental Shelf administrative 
activities established after September 30, 1993.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                     abandoned mine reclamation fund

                           (transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for the ``Abandoned Mine Reclamation 
Fund'', $3,163,000, to be derived by transfer from amounts available in 
Public Law 105-83 under the heading, ``Regulation and Technology'', and 
to be subject to the same terms and conditions of the account to which 
transferred.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$1,050,000, to remain available until expended, for the cost of document 
collection and production, including electronic imaging, required to 
support litigation involving individual Indian trust fund accounts.

             Office of Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

    For an additional amount for ``Federal Trust Programs'', $4,650,000, 
to remain available until expended, for the cost of document collection 
and production, including electronic imaging, required to support 
litigation involving individual Indian trust fund accounts.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                          Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For an additional amount for ``Indian Health Services'', $100,000, 
to remain available until expended, for suicide prevention counseling.

[[Page 112 STAT. 82]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 3001. Section 330C(c) of subpart I of part D of title III of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b et seq.), as 
amended <<NOTE: 42 USC 254c-3.>>  by section 4922 of Public Law 105-33, 
is further amended by inserting ``, to remain available until 
expended,'' after the words ``fiscal years 1998 through 2002, 
$30,000,000''.

    Sec. 3002. Construction of the Trappers Loop connector road, and any 
related actions, by any Federal or state agency or other entity are 
deemed to be non-discretionary actions authorized and directed by 
Congress under title III, section 304(e)(3) of the Omnibus Parks and 
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 4093).
    Sec. 3003. Neither the issuance by the United States of an easement 
on and across National Forest lands for the Boulder City Pipeline (also 
known as Lakewood Pipeline) nor the acceptance of such easement by the 
City of Boulder, Colorado, nor the relocation of such pipeline on such 
easement, shall cause, be construed as, or result in the abandonment, 
termination, relinquishment, revocation, limitation, or diminution of 
any rights claimed by such city pursuant to or as a result of any prior 
grant, including the Act of July 26, 1866 (43 U.S.C. 661) and the Acts 
authorizing the conveyance of such city of the Silver Lake Watershed. 
The alignment of the relocated pipeline shall be considered neither more 
nor less within the scope of any prior grants than the alignment of the 
pipeline existing prior to the issuance of such easement.
    Sec. 3004. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of the Interior, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, may hereafter 
directly transfer to Indian tribes in North and South Dakota portable 
housing units at the Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota that 
have been declared excess by the Department of Defense and requested for 
transfer by the Department of the Interior: Provided, That the 
Department of the Interior shall not be responsible for rehabilitation 
of the portable housing units or remediation of any potentially 
hazardous substances.
    Sec. 3005. Petroglyph <<NOTE: Petroglyph National Monument Boundary 
Adjustment Act. New Mexico. 16 USC 431 note.>>  National Monument. (a) 
Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Petroglyph National 
Monument Boundary Adjustment Act''.

    (b) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the purposes for which Petroglyph National Monument 
        (referred to in this section as ``the monument'') was 
        established continue to be valid;
            (2) it is of mutual benefit to the trustee institutions of 
        the New Mexico State Trust lands and the National Park Service 
        for land exchange negotiations to be completed with all due 
        diligence, resulting in the transfer of all State Trust lands 
        within the boundaries of the monument to the United States in 
        accordance with State and Federal law;
            (3) because the city of Albuquerque, New Mexico, has 
        acquired substantial acreage within the monument boundaries, 
        purchased with State and municipal funds, the consolidation of 
        land ownership and jurisdiction under the National Park Service 
        will require the consent of the city of Albuquerque, and options 
        for National Park Service acquisition that are not currently 
        available;
            (4) corridors for the development of Paseo del Norte and 
        Unser Boulevard are depicted on the map referred to in section 
        102(a) of the Petroglyph National Monument Establishment

[[Page 112 STAT. 83]]

        Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-313; 16 U.S.C. 431 note), and the 
        alignment of the roadways was anticipated by Congress before the 
        date of enactment of the Act;
            (5) it was the expectation of the principal proponents of 
        the monument, including the cities of Albuquerque and Rio 
        Rancho, New Mexico, and the National Park Service, that passage 
        of the Petroglyph National Monument Establishment Act of 1990 
        (Public Law 101-313; 16 U.S.C. 431 note) would allow the city of 
        Albuquerque--
                    (A) to utilize the Paseo del Norte and Unser 
                Boulevard corridors through the monument; and
                    (B) to design and construct infrastructure within 
                the corridors with the cultural and natural resources of 
                the monument in mind;
            (6) the city of Albuquerque has not provided for the 
        establishment of rights-of-way for the Paseo del Norte and Unser 
        Boulevard corridors under the Joint Powers Agreement (JPANO 78-
        521.81-277A), which expanded the boundary of the monument to 
        include the Piedras Marcadas and Boca Negra units, pursuant to 
        section 104 of the Petroglyph National Monument Establishment 
        Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-313; 16 U.S.C. 431 note);
            (7) the National Park Service has identified the realignment 
        of Unser Boulevard, depicted on the map referred to in section 
        102(a) of the Petroglyph National Monument Establishment Act of 
        1990 (Public Law 101-313; 16 U.S.C. 431 note), as serving a park 
        purpose in the General Management Plan/Development Concept Plan 
        for Petroglyph National Monument;
            (8) the establishment of a citizens' advisory committee 
        prior to construction of the Unser Boulevard South project, 
        which runs along the eastern boundary of the Atrisco Unit of the 
        monument, allowed the citizens of Albuquerque and the National 
        Park Service to provide significant and meaningful input into 
        the parkway design of the road, and that similar proceedings 
        should occur prior to construction within the Paseo del Norte 
        corridor;
            (9) parkway standards approved by the city of Albuquerque 
        for the construction of Unser Boulevard South along the eastern 
        boundary of the Atrisco Unit of the monument would be 
        appropriate for a road passing through the Paseo del Norte 
        corridor;
            (10) adequate planning and cooperation between the city of 
        Albuquerque and the National Park Service is essential to avoid 
        resource degradation within the monument resulting from storm 
        water runoff, and drainage conveyances through the monument 
        should be designed and located to provide sufficient capacity 
        for effective runoff management; and
            (11) the monument will best be managed for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations with cooperation 
        between the city of Albuquerque, the State of New Mexico, and 
        the National Park Service.

    (c) Planning Authority.--
            (1) Storm water drainage.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary''), and the city 
        of Albuquerque, New Mexico, shall enter into negotiations to

[[Page 112 STAT. 84]]

        provide for the management of storm water runoff and drainage 
        within the monument, including the design and construction of 
        any storm water corridors, conveyances, and easements within the 
        monument boundaries.
            (2) Road design.--
                    (A) If the city of Albuquerque decides to proceed 
                with the construction of a roadway within the area 
                excluded from the monument by the amendment made by 
                subsection (d), the design criteria shall be similar to 
                those provided for the Unser Boulevard South project 
                along the eastern boundary of the Atrisco Unit, taking 
                into account topographic differences and the lane, speed 
                and noise requirements of the heavier traffic load that 
                is anticipated for Paseo del Norte, as referenced in 
                section A-2 of the Unser Middle Transportation Corridor 
                Record of Decision prepared by the city of Albuquerque 
                dated December 1993.
                    (B) At least 180 days before the initiation of any 
                road construction within the area excluded from the 
                monument by the amendment made by subsection (d), the 
                city of Albuquerque shall notify the Director of the 
                National Park Service (hereinafter ``the Director''), 
                who may submit suggested modifications to the design 
                specifications of the road construction project within 
                the area excluded from the monument by the amendment 
                made by subsection (d).
                    (C) If after 180 days, an agreement on the design 
                specifications is not reached by the city of Albuquerque 
                and the Director, the city may contract with the head of 
                the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of 
                New Mexico, to design a road to meet the design criteria 
                referred to in subparagraph (A). The design 
                specifications developed by the Department of Civil 
                Engineering shall be deemed to have met the requirements 
                of this paragraph, and the city may proceed with the 
                construction project, in accordance with those design 
                specifications.

    (d) Acquisition Authority; Boundary Adjustment; Administration and 
Management of the Monument.--
            (1) Acquisition authority.--Section 103(a) of the Petroglyph 
        National Monument Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-313; 
        16 U.S.C. 431 note) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(a) The Secretary'' and inserting 
                the following:

    ``(a) Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary'';
                    (B) by striking ``, except that lands or interests 
                therein owned by the State or a political subdivision 
                thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Land owned by the state or a political subdivision.--
        No land or interest in land owned by the State or a political 
        subdivision of the State may be acquired by purchase before--
                    ``(A) the State or political subdivision holding 
                title to the land or interest in land identifies the 
                land or interest in land for disposal; and
                    ``(B)(i) all private land within the monument 
                boundary for which there is a willing seller is 
                acquired; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 85]]

                          ``(ii) 2 years have elapsed after the date on 
                      which the Secretary has made a final offer (for 
                      which funds are available) to acquire all 
                      remaining private land at fair market value.''.
            (2) Boundary adjustment.--Section 104(a) of the Petroglyph 
        National Monument Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-313; 
        16 U.S.C. 431 note) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting 
                appropriately;
                    (B) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(2)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), effective as of the date of 
enactment of this subparagraph--
            ``(i) the boundary of the monument is adjusted to exclude 
        the Paseo Del Norte corridor in the Piedras Marcadas Unit 
        described in Exhibit B of the document described in subparagraph 
        (B); and
            ``(ii) the inclusion of the Paseo Del Norte corridor within 
        the boundary of the monument before the date of enactment of 
        this paragraph shall have no effect on any future ownership, 
        use, or management of the corridor.

    ``(B) The document described in this subparagraph is the document 
entitled `Petroglyph National Monument Roadway/Utility Corridors', dated 
October 30, 1997, on file with the Secretary of the Interior and the 
mayor of the city of Albuquerque, New Mexico.''.
    (e) Administration and management of the monument.--Section 105 of 
the Petroglyph National Monument Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101-313; 16 U.S.C. 431 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(f) Boca Negra and Piedras Marcadas Units.--If the binding 
agreement providing for the expansion of the monument pursuant to 
section 104 is amended, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, 
to transfer to the National Park Service responsibility for operation, 
maintenance, and repair of any or all property within the Boca Negra or 
Piedras Marcadas Unit of the monument, the Secretary may employ, at a 
comparable grade and salary within the National Park Service, any 
willing employees of the city assigned to the Unit.''.
    (f) Double Eagle II Airport Access Road.--The Administrator of the 
Federal Aviation Administration shall allow the use of the access road 
to the Double Eagle II Airport in existence on the date of enactment of 
this Act for visitor access to the monument.
    Sec. 3006. County <<NOTE: 16 USC 1608 note.>>  Payment Mitigation--
Transportation System Moratorium. (a)(1) This section provides 
compensation for loss of revenues that would have been provided to 
counties if no road moratorium, as described in subsection (a)(2), were 
implemented or no substitute sales offered as described in subsection 
(b)(1). This section does not endorse or prohibit the road building 
moratorium nor does it affect the applicability of existing law to any 
moratorium.

    (2) The Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, in 
his sole discretion, may offer any timber sales that were scheduled 
October 1, 1997, or thereafter, to be offered in fiscal year 1998 or 
fiscal year 1999 even if such sales would have been delayed or halted as 
a result of any moratorium (resulting from the Federal

[[Page 112 STAT. 86]]

Register proposal of January 28, 1998, pages 4351-4354) on construction 
of roads in roadless areas within the National Forest System adopted as 
policy or by regulation that would otherwise be applicable to such 
sales.
    (3) Any sales offered pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall--
            (A) comply with all applicable laws and regulations and be 
        consistent with applicable land and resource management plans, 
        except any regulations or plan amendments which establish or 
        implement the moratorium referred to in subsection (a)(2); and
            (B) be subject to administrative appeals pursuant to part 
        215 of title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations and to 
        judicial review.

    (b)(1) For any previously scheduled sales that are not offered 
pursuant to subsection (a)(2), the Chief may, to the extent practicable, 
offer substitute sales within the same State in fiscal year 1998 or 
fiscal year 1999. Such substitute sales shall be subject to the 
requirements of subsection (a)(3).
    (2)(A) The Chief shall pay as soon as practicable after fiscal year 
1998 and fiscal year 1999 to any State in which sales previously 
scheduled to be offered that are referred to in, but not offered 
pursuant to, subsection (a)(2) would have occurred, 25 percent of any 
anticipated receipts from such sales that--
            (i) were scheduled from fiscal year 1998 or fiscal year 1999 
        sales in the absence of any moratorium referred to in subsection 
        (a)(2); and
            (ii) are not offset by revenues received in such fiscal 
        years from substitute projects authorized pursuant to subsection 
        (b)(1).

    (B) After reporting the amount of funds required to make any 
payments required by subsection (b)(2)(A), and the source from which 
such funds are to be derived, to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the Chief shall make any 
payments required by subsection (b)(2)(A) from any funds available to 
the Forest Service in fiscal year 1998 or fiscal year 1999, subject to 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, that are not specifically earmarked for 
another purpose by the applicable appropriation Act or a committee or 
conference report thereon.
    (C) Any State which receives payments required by subsection 
(b)(2)(A) shall expend such funds only in the manner, and for the 
purposes, prescribed in section 500 of title 16, United States Code.
    (c)(1) During the term <<NOTE: Reports.>>  of the moratorium 
referred to in subsection (a)(2), the Chief shall prepare and submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report on each of the following--
            (A) a study of whether standards and guidelines in existing 
        land and resource management plans compel or encourage entry 
        into roadless areas within the National Forest System for the 
        purpose of constructing roads or undertaking any other ground-
        disturbing activities;
            (B) an inventory of all roads within the National Forest 
        System and the uses which they serve, in a format that will 
        inform and facilitate the development of a long-term Forest 
        Service transportation policy; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 87]]

            (C) a comprehensive and detailed analysis of the economic 
        and social effects of the moratorium referred to in subsection 
        (a)(2) on county, State, and regional levels.

    Sec. 3007. Provision of Certain Health Care Services for Alaska 
Natives.--Section 203(a) of the Michigan Indian Land Claims Settlement 
Act (Public Law 105-143; 111 Stat. 2666) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``other than community based alcohol 
        services,'' after ``Ketchikan Gateway Borough,''; and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following new sentence: 
        ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such contract or 
        compact shall provide services to all Indian and Alaska Native 
        beneficiaries of the Indian Health Service in the Ketchikan 
        Gateway Borough without the need for resolutions of support from 
        any Indian tribe as defined in the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)).''.

    Sec. 3008. Section 326(a) of the Act making Appropriations for the 
Department of the Interior and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1998 and for other purposes (Public Law 105-83; 111 
Stat. 1543) is amended <<NOTE: 111 Stat. 1599.>>  by striking ``with any 
Alaska Native village or Alaska Native village corporation'' and 
inserting ``to any Indian tribe as defined in the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e))''.

    Sec. 3009. None of the funds in this or any other Act shall be used 
to issue a notice of final rulemaking prior to October 1, 1998 with 
respect to the valuation of crude oil for royalty purposes, including 
without limitation a rulemaking derived from proposed rules published in 
63 Federal Register 6113 (1998), 62 Federal Register 36030, and 62 
Federal Register 3742 (1997).

                                CHAPTER 4

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 disease control, research, and training

    For an additional amount for the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, ``disease control, research, and training'', $9,000,000.

                  Health Care Financing Administration

                           program management

    For an additional amount for ``Program management'', $2,200,000.
    Title II of Public <<NOTE: 111 Stat. 1484.>>  Law 105-78 is amended 
under this heading by striking the fourth proviso and inserting the 
following new proviso: ``Provided further, That $20,000,000 appropriated 
under this heading for the transition to a single Part A and Part B 
processing system and $20,000,000 to be used only to the extent needed 
for Year 2000 century date change conversion requirements of external 
contractor systems shall remain available until expended:''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 88]]

                         Office of the Secretary

                     general departmental management

    Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``general departmental 
management'' in Public Law 105-78 to carry out title XX of the Public 
Health Service Act, $10,831,000 shall be for activities specified under 
section 2003(b)(2), of which $9,131,000 shall be for prevention service 
demonstration grants under section 510(b)(2) of title V of the Social 
Security Act, as amended, without application of the limitation of 
section 2010(c) of said title XX.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                            Special Education

    Public Law 105-78, under the <<NOTE: 111 Stat. 1500.>>  heading 
``special education'' is amended by inserting before the period the 
following: ``: Provided further, That $600,000 of the funds provided 
under section 672 of the Act shall be for the Early Childhood 
Development Project of the National Easter Seal Society for the 
Mississippi Delta Region, which funds shall be used to provide training, 
technical support, services, and equipment to address personnel and 
other needs''.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 4001. (a) If a State child health plan under title XXI of the 
Social Security Act is approved on or after October 1, 1998, and before 
October 1, 1999, for purposes of such title (including allotments under 
section 2104(b) of such title) the plan shall be treated as having been 
approved with respect to amounts allotted under such title for fiscal 
year 1998, as well as for fiscal year 1999.
    (b) The appropriation in section 2104(a)(1) of such title for fiscal 
year 1998 shall remain available to be obligated through September 30, 
1999.
    Sec. 4002. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Department of Health and Human Services shall permit the submission of 
public comments until August 31, 1998, on the final rule entitled 
``Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network'' published by the 
Department in the Federal Register on April 2, 1998 (63 Fed. Reg. 16295 
et seq.), and such rule shall not become effective before October 1, 
1998, after the end of such comment period.

                                CHAPTER 5

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

      Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For payment to Lois <<NOTE: Lois G. Capps.>>  G. Capps, widow of 
Walter H. Capps, late a Representative of the State of California, 
$133,600.

    For payment to Mary Bono, widow <<NOTE: Mary Bono.>>  of Sonny Bono, 
late a Representative of the State of California, $136,700.

[[Page 112 STAT. 89]]

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Capitol Buildings Salaries and 
Expenses'', $7,500,000, to remain available until expended, to begin 
repairs and rehabilitation of the Capitol dome: Provided, That this 
additional amount shall be available for obligation without regard to 
section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, as amended.

                             capitol grounds

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the design, installation and maintenance 
of the Capitol Square perimeter security plan, $20,000,000 (of which not 
to exceed $4,000,000 shall be transferred upon request of the Capitol 
Police Board to the Capitol Police Board, ``Capitol Police'', ``General 
Expenses'' for physical security measures associated with the Capitol 
Square perimeter security plan) to remain available until expended, 
subject to the review and approval by the appropriate House and Senate 
authorities: Provided, That this additional amount shall be available 
for obligation without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes, 
as amended.

                                CHAPTER 6

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Office of the Secretary

                          amtrak reform council

    For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council, including the 
independent assessment of Amtrak, authorized under sections 202, 203, 
and 409 of Public Law 105-134, $2,450,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 1999: Provided, That not to exceed $400,000 shall be 
transferred to the Department of Transportation Inspector General for 
the new responsibilities associated with section 409(c) of Public Law 
105-134.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                        facilities and equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For an additional amount for ``Facilities and Equipment'' for 
expenses relating to Year 2000 computer hardware and software problems, 
$25,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

[[Page 112 STAT. 90]]

              Research and Special Programs Administration

                      research and special programs

    For an additional amount for emergency transportation activities, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of these 
funds, $400,000 shall be available only for costs associated with 
construction and establishment of an emergency transportation response 
center in Arab, Alabama, $550,000 shall be available only for costs 
associated with purchase and establishment of a mobile emergency 
response system to be administered jointly by the Alabama Department of 
Transportation and the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, and $50,000 
shall be for Research and Special Programs Administration administrative 
costs associated with these projects.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' for necessary 
expenses resulting from the crash of TWA Flight 800, $5,400,000: 
Provided, That the entire amount is available only for costs associated 
with rental of the facility in Calverton, New York, of which not to 
exceed $500,000 is for security expenses: Provided further, That no 
funds or unobligated balances are available to provide for or permit 
flight operations at the Calverton airfield.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 6001. Of the balances available to the Federal Transit 
Administration from previous appropriations Acts, $1,000,000 shall be 
made available for a comprehensive transportation investment analysis of 
the primary urban corridor from Ewa to east Honolulu, Hawaii: Provided, 
That these funds shall remain available until September 30, 2001.

                                CHAPTER 7

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                         automation enhancement

                year 2000 century date change conversion

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Treasury for Year 
2000 century date change conversion requirements, $35,500,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000.

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', for Year 
2000 century date change conversion requirements, $5,300,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 91]]

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 7001. Federal <<NOTE: Effective date. Termination 
date. Applicability. 5 USC 8336 note.>>  Employee Voluntary Early 
Retirement. (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--Effective for purposes 
of the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending 
on September 30, 1999, paragraph (2) of section 8336(d) of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be applied as if it had been amended to read 
as follows:
            ``(2)(A) has been employed continuously, by the agency in 
        which the employee is serving, for at least the 31-day period 
        ending on the date on which such agency requests the 
        determination referred to in subparagraph (D);
            ``(B) is serving under an appointment that is not time 
        limited;
            ``(C) has not been duly notified that such employee is to be 
        involuntarily separated for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            ``(D) is separated from the service voluntarily during a 
        period in which, as determined by the Office of Personnel 
        Management (upon request of the agency) under regulations 
        prescribed by the Office--
                    ``(i) such agency (or, if applicable, the component 
                in which the employee is serving) is undergoing a major 
                reorganization, a major reduction in force, or a major 
                transfer of function; and
                    ``(ii) a significant percentage of the employees 
                serving in such agency (or component) will be separated 
                or subject to an immediate reduction in the rate of 
                basic pay (without regard to subchapter VI of chapter 
                53, or comparable provisions); and
            ``(E) as determined by the agency under regulations 
        prescribed by the Office, is within the scope of the offer of 
        voluntary early retirement, which may be made on the basis of--
                    ``(i) one or more organizational units;
                    ``(ii) one or more occupational series or levels;
                    ``(iii) one or more geographical locations;
                    ``(iv) other similar nonpersonal factors the Office 
                determines appropriate; or
                    ``(v) any appropriate combination of such 
                factors;''.

    (b) Federal <<NOTE: Effective date. Termination 
date. Applicability. 5 USC 8414 note.>>  Employees' Retirement System.--
Effective for purposes of the period beginning on the date of enactment 
of this Act and ending on September 30, 1999, subparagraph (B) of 
section 8414(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, shall be applied as 
if it had been amended to read as follows:
            ``(B)(i) has been employed continuously, by the agency in 
        which the employee is serving, for at least the 31-day period 
        ending on the date on which such agency requests the 
        determination referred to in clause (iv);
            ``(ii) is serving under an appointment that is not time 
        limited;
            ``(iii) has not been duly notified that such employee is to 
        be involuntarily separated for misconduct or unacceptable 
        performance;
            ``(iv) is separated <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  from the service 
        voluntarily during a period in which, as determined by the 
        Office of Personnel Management (upon request of the agency) 
        under regulations prescribed by the Office--

[[Page 112 STAT. 92]]

                    ``(I) such agency (or, if applicable, the component 
                in which the employee is serving) is undergoing a major 
                reorganization, a major reduction in force, or a major 
                transfer of function; and
                    ``(II) a significant percentage of the employees 
                serving in such agency (or component) will be separated 
                or subject to an immediate reduction in the rate of 
                basic pay (without regard to subchapter VI of chapter 
                53, or comparable provisions); and
            ``(v) as determined by the agency under regulations 
        prescribed by the Office, is within the scope of the offer of 
        voluntary early retirement, which may be made on the basis of--
                    ``(I) one or more organizational units;
                    ``(II) one or more occupational series or levels;
                    ``(III) one or more geographical locations;
                    ``(IV) other similar nonpersonal factors the Office 
                determines appropriate; or
                    ``(V) any appropriate combination of such 
                factors;''.

    Sec. 7002. <<NOTE: Manuel Zurita.>>  Notwithstanding section 2164 of 
title 10, United States Code, the Department of Defense shall permit the 
two dependent children of deceased United States Customs Senior Special 
Agent Manuel Zurita attending the Antilles Consolidated School System at 
Fort Buchanan, Puerto Rico, to complete their primary and secondary 
education at this school system without cost to such children or any 
parent, relative, or guardian of such children. The United States 
Customs Service shall reimburse the Department of Defense for reasonable 
educational expenses to cover these costs.

                                CHAPTER 8

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

    For an additional amount for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
$550,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 43 USC 1281 note.>>  any other provision of 
law, eligible recipients of the funds appropriated to the Environmental 
Protection Agency in the State and Tribal Assistance Grants account 
since fiscal year 1997 and hereafter for multi-media or single media 
grants, other than Performance Partnership Grants authorized pursuant to 
Public Law 104-134 and Public Law 105-65, for pollution prevention, 
control, and abatement and related activities have been and shall be 
those entities eligible for grants under the Agency's organic statutes.

                        administrative provision

    No requirements set forth in any carbon monoxide Federal 
implementation plan (FIP) that are based on the Clean Air Act

[[Page 112 STAT. 93]]

as in effect prior to the 1990 amendments to such Act may be imposed in 
the State of Arizona.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

                           (transfer of funds)

    The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall transfer from amounts made available for NASA in 
Public Law 105-65 under the heading, ``Mission support'', $53,000,000 to 
``Human space flight'' for Space Station activities, to be merged with 
and to be available for the same purposes of such account: Provided, 
That the total amount available for Space Station activities in fiscal 
year 1998 shall be up to $2,441,300,000.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 8001. Section 206 of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1998 <<NOTE: 111 Stat. 1365.>>  (Public Law 105-65; October 27, 
1997) is amended by inserting the following before the final period: ``, 
and for loans and grants for economic development in and around 18th and 
Vine''.

    Sec. 8002. Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS. (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to the amount 
allocated for fiscal year 1998, and the amounts that would otherwise be 
allocated for fiscal year 1999, to the City of Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania on behalf of the Philadelphia, PA-NJ Primary Metropolitan 
Statistical Area (in this section referred to as the ``metropolitan 
area''), under section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 
U.S.C. 12903(c)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
adjust such amounts by allocating to the State of New Jersey the 
proportion of the metropolitan area's amount that is based on the number 
of cases of AIDS reported in the portion of the metropolitan area that 
is located in New Jersey.
    (b) The State of New Jersey shall use amounts allocated to the State 
under this section to carry out eligible activities under section 855 of 
the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in the portion of the 
metropolitan area that is located in New Jersey.
    Sec. 8003. Ratification of Internet Intellectual Infrastructure Fee. 
(a) The 30 percent portion of the fee charged by Network Solutions, Inc. 
between September 14, 1995 and March 31, 1998 for registration or 
renewal of an Internet second-level domain name, which portion was to be 
expended for the preservation and enhancement of the intellectual 
infrastructure of the Internet under a cooperative agreement with the 
National Science Foundation, and which portion was held to have been 
collected without authority in William Thomas et al. v. Network 
Solutions, Inc. and National Science Foundation, Civ. No. 97-2412, is 
hereby legalized and ratified and confirmed as fully to all intents and 
purposes as if the same had, by prior Act of Congress, been specifically 
authorized and directed.

[[Page 112 STAT. 94]]

    (b) The National Science Foundation is authorized and directed to 
deposit all money remaining in the Internet Intellectual Infrastructure 
Fund into the Treasury and credit that amount to its Fiscal Year 1998 
Research and Related Activities appropriation to be available until 
expended for the support of networking activities, including the Next 
Generation Internet.

                                CHAPTER 9

                         RESCISSIONS AND OFFSET

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                      Agricultural Research Service

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$223,000 are rescinded.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$350,000 are rescinded.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$25,000 are rescinded.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$38,000 are rescinded.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$502,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 95]]

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$1,080,000 are rescinded.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for the cost of the unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$8,273,000 are rescinded.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$378,000 are rescinded.

                          Rural Housing Service

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$846,000 are rescinded.

                       food program administration

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-86, 
$114,000 are rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, $1,188,000 are rescinded.

                    oregon and california grant lands

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, $2,500,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 96]]

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                           resource management

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-18, 
$250,000 are rescinded.

                              construction

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, $1,188,000 are rescinded.

                          National Park Service

                              construction

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, $1,638,000 are rescinded.

                             Bureau of Mines

                           mines and minerals

                              (rescission)

    The following amounts, totaling $1,605,000, are rescinded from funds 
made available under this heading: in Public Law 103-332, $1,255,000; in 
Public Law 103-138, $60,000; in Public Law 102-381, $173,000; and in 
Public Law 102-154, $117,000.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                              construction

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, $837,000 are rescinded.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                      forest and rangeland research

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-83, 
$148,000 are rescinded.

                       state and private forestry

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-83, 
$59,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 97]]

                         national forest system

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-83, 
$1,094,000 are rescinded.

                        wildland fire management

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-83, 
$148,000 are rescinded.

                     reconstruction and construction

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-83, 
$30,000 are rescinded.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                    health professions education fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under the Health Professions Education 
Fund appropriation account, $11,200,000 are rescinded.

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Office of the Secretary

                        payments to air carriers

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 101-516 
and subsequently obligated, $2,500,000 shall be deobligated and are 
hereby rescinded.

                        payments to air carriers

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the budgetary resources provided for ``Small Community Air 
Service'' by Public Law 101-508 for fiscal years prior to fiscal year 
1998, $3,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                Facilities, Engineering, and Development

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in previous 
appropriations Acts, $500,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 112 STAT. 98]]

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 49 U.S.C. 48103 as 
amended, $54,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Railroad Administration

                        Conrail Labor Protection

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in previous 
appropriations Acts, $508,234 are rescinded.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-
208, as amended by Public Law 105-18, $6,000,000 are rescinded.

    operations and maintenance, customs p-3 drug interdiction program

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 102-
393, $4,470,000 are rescinded.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                   information technology investments

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 105-61, 
$30,330,000 are rescinded.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 9001. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in Public Law 105-86 shall be used to pay the salaries and 
expenses of personnel to carry out a conservation farm option program as 
authorized by section 335 of Public Law 104-127 in excess of 
$11,000,000.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 10001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

[[Page 112 STAT. 99]]

    Sec. 10002. None <<NOTE: Reports.>>  of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this or any prior Act may be obligated or 
expended by the Patent and Trademark Office to plan for the lease of new 
facilities until 30 days after the submission of a report, to be 
delivered not later than May 15, 1998, to the Committees on 
Appropriations, on the space plans and detailed cost estimate for the 
build-out of the new facilities: Provided, That such funds shall be made 
available only in accordance with section 605 of Public Law 105-119.

    Sec. 10003. Section 203 of the National Sea Grant College Program 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1122) is amended by--
            (1) striking paragraph (5) and redesignating paragraphs (6) 
        through (17) as paragraphs (5) through (16);
            (2) redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (F) of paragraph 
        (7), as redesignated, as subparagraphs (D) through (G); and
            (3) inserting after subparagraph (B) of paragraph (7), as 
        redesignated, the following:
                    ``(C) Lake Champlain (to the extent that such 
                resources have hydrological, biological, physical, or 
                geological characteristics and problems similar or 
                related to those of the Great Lakes);''.

    Sec. 10004. (a) Any agency listed in section 404(b) of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, Public Law 105-119, may transfer any 
amount to the Department of State, subject to the limitations of 
subsection (b) of this section, for the purpose of making technical 
adjustments to the amounts transferred by section 404 of such Act.
    (b) Funds transferred pursuant to subsection (a) shall not exceed 
$12,000,000, of which not to exceed $3,500,000 may be transferred from 
the United States Information Agency, of which not to exceed $3,600,000 
may be transferred from the Defense Intelligence Agency, of which not to 
exceed $1,600,000 may be transferred from the Defense Security 
Assistance Agency, of which not to exceed $900,000 may be transferred 
from the Peace Corps, and of which not to exceed $500,000 may be 
transferred from any other single agency listed in section 404(b) of 
Public Law 105-119.
    (c) A transfer of funds pursuant to this section shall not require 
any notification or certification to Congress or any committee of 
Congress, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    Sec. 10005. Section 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208; 110 
Stat. 3009-171) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``For purposes'' and inserting 
                ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
                purposes''; and
                    (B) by striking ``fiscal year 1997'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal years 1998 and 1999''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

    ``(b) Aliens Covered.--
            ``(1) In general.--An alien described in this subsection is 
        an alien who--
                    ``(A) is the son or daughter of a qualified 
                national;
                    ``(B) is 21 years of age or older; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 100]]

                    ``(C) was unmarried as of the date of acceptance of 
                the alien's parent for resettlement under the Orderly 
                Departure Program.
            ``(2) Qualified national.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the term `qualified national' means a national of Vietnam who--
                    ``(A)(i) was formerly interned in a reeducation camp 
                in Vietnam by the Government of the Socialist Republic 
                of Vietnam; or
                    ``(ii) is the widow or widower of an individual 
                described in clause (i); and
                    ``(B)(i) qualified for refugee processing under the 
                reeducation camp internees subprogram of the Orderly 
                Departure Program; and
                    ``(ii) on or after April 1, 1995, is accepted--
                          ``(I) for resettlement as a refugee; or
                          ``(II) for admission as an immigrant under the 
                      Orderly Departure Program.''.

    Sec. 10006. The President <<NOTE: President.>>  shall instruct the 
United States Representatives to the World Trade Organization to seek 
the adoption of procedures that will ensure broader application of the 
principles of transparency and openness in the activities of the 
organization, including by urging the World Trade Organization General 
Council to--
            (1) permit appropriate meetings of the Council, the 
        Ministerial Conference, dispute settlement panels, and the 
        Appellate Body to be made open to the public; and
            (2) provide for timely public summaries of the matters 
        discussed and decisions made in any closed meeting of the 
        Conference or Council.

                  district of columbia chief of police

    Sec. 10007. (a) Employment Contract.--Paragraph 2 of section 1 of 
the Act entitled ``An Act relating to the Metropolitan police of the 
District of Columbia'', approved February 28, 1901 (D.C. Code, sec. 4-
104), and any other provision of law affecting the employment of the 
Chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia 
shall not apply to the Chief of the Department to the extent that such 
paragraph or provision is inconsistent with the terms of an employment 
agreement entered into between the Chief, the Mayor of the District of 
Columbia, and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Authority.
    (b) Appointment and Removal During Control Year.--
            (1) Appointment.--During a control year, the Chief of the 
        Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia shall 
        be appointed by the Mayor of the District of Columbia as 
        follows:
                    (A) Prior to appointment, the District of Columbia 
                Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
                Authority (hereafter in this subsection referred to as 
                the ``Authority'') may submit recommendations for the 
                appointment to the Mayor.
                    (B) In consultation with the Authority and the 
                Council of the District of Columbia, the Mayor shall 
                nominate an individual for appointment and notify the 
                Council of the nomination.

[[Page 112 STAT. 101]]

                    (C) After the expiration of the 7-day period which 
                begins on the date the Mayor notifies the Council of the 
                nomination under subparagraph (B), the Mayor shall 
                notify the Authority of the nomination.
                    (D) The nomination shall be effective subject to 
                approval by a majority vote of the Authority.
            (2) Removal.--During a control year, the Chief of the 
        Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia may 
        be removed by the Authority or by the Mayor with the approval of 
        the Authority.
            (3) Control year defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``control year'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        305(4) of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
        Management Assistance Act of 1995.

    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall be effective as of April 21, 
1998.
    Sec. 10008. Support for Democratic Opposition in Iraq. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds made available 
under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in Public Law 105-118, 
$5,000,000 shall be made available for assistance to the Iraqi 
democratic opposition for such activities as organization, training, 
communication and dissemination of information, developing and 
implementing agreements among opposition groups, compiling information 
to support the indictment of Iraqi officials for war crimes, and for 
related <<NOTE: Reports.>>  purposes: Provided, That within 30 days of 
enactment into law of this Act the Secretary of State shall submit a 
detailed report to the appropriate committees of Congress on plans to 
establish a program to support the democratic opposition in Iraq.

    This Act may be cited as the ``1998 Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescissions Act''.

    Approved May 1, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3579 (S. 1768):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-469 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-504 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-168 accompanying S. 1768 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Mar. 31, considered and passed House. Passed Senate, 
                amended, in lieu of S. 1768.
            Apr. 30, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            May 1, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>