[105th Congress Public Law 280]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ280.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 2694]]

Public Law 105-280
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for a land exchange involving the Cape Cod National Seashore 
and to extend the authority for the Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory 
           Commission. <<NOTE: Oct. 26, 1998 -  [H.R. 2411]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE.

    (a) Land Exchange and Boundary Adjustment.--Section 2 of Public Law 
87-126 (16 U.S.C. 459b-1) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(d) <<NOTE: Massachusetts.>>  The Secretary may convey to the town 
of Provincetown, Massachusetts, a parcel of real property consisting of 
approximately 7.62 acres of Federal land within such area in exchange 
for approximately 11.157 acres of land outside of such area, as depicted 
on the map entitled `Cape Cod National Seashore Boundary Revision Map', 
dated May, 1997, and numbered 609/80,801, to allow for the establishment 
of a municipal facility to serve the town that is restricted to solid 
waste transfer and recycling facilities and for other municipal 
activities that are compatible with National Park Service laws and 
regulations. Upon completion of the exchange, the Secretary shall modify 
the boundary of the Cape Cod National Seashore to include the land that 
has been added.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  Reauthorization of Advisory 
Commission.--Section 8(a) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 459b-7(a)) is amended 
by striking the second sentence and inserting the following new 
sentence: ``The Commission shall terminate September 26, 2008.''.

    Approved October 26, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2411:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-568 (Comm. on Resources)
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-392 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            June 22, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 7, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>