[105th Congress Public Law 55]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ55.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 1177]]

Public Law 105-55
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  <<NOTE: Oct. 7, 1997 -  [H.R. 2209]>> Making appropriations for the 
             Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
               September 30, 1998, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1998.>>  That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1998, and for other purposes, namely:

  <<NOTE: Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1998. 2 USC 60a 
note.>> TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
pro tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $77,254,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,612,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President pro tempore, $371,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,388,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1178]]

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,221,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,061,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,122,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $409,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,077,500 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,155,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $260,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $13,306,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $33,037,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,165,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $19,208,000.

             office of the legislative counsel of the senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,605,000.

                     office of senate legal counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$966,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1179]]

           Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, 
           Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and 
         Secretaries for the Majority and Minority of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $75,600,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $370,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,511,000.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $64,833,000, of which $7,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 1999.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $7,905,000.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$228,600,000.

                       stationery (revolving fund)

    For stationery for the President of the Senate, $4,500, for officers 
of the Senate and the Conference of the Majority and Conference of the 
Minority of the Senate, $8,500; in all, $13,000.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                        administrative provisions

<<NOTE: Contracts. 2 USC 68e.>>     Section 1. (a) For fiscal year 1998, 
and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Senate is 
authorized to make advance

[[Page 111 STAT. 1180]]

payments under a contract or other agreement to provide a service or 
deliver an article for the United States Government without regard to 
the provisions of section 3324 of title 31, United States Code.
<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     (b) An advance payment authorized by 
subsection (a) shall be made in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

    (c) The authority granted by subsection (a) shall not take effect 
until regulations are issued pursuant to subsection (b).
<<NOTE: 2 USC 31a-2c.>>     Sec. 2. (a) Upon the written request of the 
Majority or Minority Whip of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate 
shall transfer during any fiscal year, from the appropriations account 
appropriated under the headings ``Salaries, Officers and Employees'' and 
``offices of the majority and minority whips'', such amount as either 
whip shall specify to the appropriations account, within the contingent 
fund of the Senate, ``miscellaneous items''.

    (b) The Majority and Minority Whips of the Senate are each 
authorized to incur such expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. 
Expenses incurred by either such whip shall be paid from the amount 
transferred pursuant to subsection (a) by such whip and upon vouchers 
approved by such whip.
    (c) The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to advance such sums 
as may be necessary to defray expenses incurred in carrying out 
subsections (a) and (b).
<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     Sec. 3. (a) Effective in the case of any 
fiscal year which begins on or after October 1, 1997, clause (iii) of 
paragraph (3)(A) of section 506(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 58(b)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(iii) subject to subparagraph (B), in case the Senator 
        represents Alabama, $182,567, Alaska, $251,901, Arizona, 
        $197,079, Arkansas, $168,282, California, $468,724, Colorado, 
        $186,350, Connecticut, $160,903, Delaware, $127,198, Florida, 
        $299,746, Georgia, $210,214, Hawaii, $279,512, Idaho, $163,335, 
        Illinois, $266,248, Indiana, $194,770, Iowa, $170,565, Kansas, 
        $168,177, Kentucky, $177,338, Louisiana, $185,647, Maine, 
        $147,746, Maryland, $173,020, Massachusetts, $195,799, Michigan, 
        $236,459, Minnesota, $187,702, Mississippi, $168,103, Missouri, 
        $197,941, Montana, $161,725, Nebraska, $160,361, Nevada, 
        $171,096, New Hampshire, $142,394, New Jersey, $206,260, New 
        Mexico, $166,140, New York, $327,955, North Carolina, $210,946, 
        North Dakota, $149,824, Ohio, $259,452, Oklahoma, $181,761, 
        Oregon, $189,345, Pennsylvania, $266,148, Rhode Island, 
        $138,582, South Carolina, $170,451, South Dakota, $151,450, 
        Tennessee, $191,954, Texas, $348,681, Utah, $168,632, Vermont, 
        $135,925, Virginia, $193,467, Washington, $214,694, West 
        Virginia, $147,772, Wisconsin, $191,569, Wyoming, $152,438, 
        plus''.

    (b) Subsection (a) of the first section of Public Law 100-137 (2 
U.S.C. 58c) is amended by adding at the end the following:
<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     ``(6) Effective on and after October 1, 
1997, the Senators' Account shall be available for the payment of 
franked mail expenses of Senators.''.

<<NOTE: 2 USC 58c-1.>>     (c)(1) Section 12 of Public Law 101-520 is 
repealed.

<<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 58c-1 note. 2 USC 58c note.>>     (2) The 
amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be effective on and after October 
1, 1997.

    (d) Nothing in this section affects the authority of the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate to prescribe

[[Page 111 STAT. 1181]]

 regulations relating to the frank by Senators and officers of the 
Senate.
    Sec. 4. (a) The aggregate amount authorized by Senate Resolution 54, 
agreed to February 13, 1997, is increased--
            (1) by $401,635 for the period March 1, 1997, through 
        September 30, 1998, and
            (2) by $994,150 for the period March 1, 1998, through 
        February 28, 1999.

<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (b) This section is effective on and after 
October 1, 1997.

<<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61-1.>>     Sec. 5. Effective on and after 
October 1, 1997, each of the dollar amounts contained in the table under 
section 105(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 
U.S.C. 61-1) shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that table on 
December 31, 1995, increased by 2 percent on January 1, 1996, and by 2.3 
percent on January 1, 1997.

    Sec. 6. (a) The aggregate amount authorized by Senate Resolution 54, 
agreed to February 13, 1997, is increased--
            (1) by $125,000 for the period March 1, 1997, through 
        September 30, 1998; and
            (2) by $175,000 for the period March 1, 1998, through 
        February 28, 1999.

<<NOTE: 2 USC 72d.>>     (b) Funds in the account, within the contingent 
fund of the Senate, available for the expenses of inquiries and 
investigations shall be available for franked mail expenses incurred by 
committees of the Senate the other expenses of which are paid from that 
account.

<<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 72d note.>>     (c) This section is 
effective for fiscal years beginning on and after October 1, 1997.

    Sec. 7. Section 1101 of Public Law 85-58 (2 U.S.C. 46a-1) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ``Disbursements from the fund shall 
be made upon vouchers approved by the 
Secretary of the Senate, or his designee.''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$708,738,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $12,293,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,590,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,626,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,652,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,024,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $998,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $397,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $736,000; Republican Conference, $1,172,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,277,000; Democratic Caucus, $631,000; 
and nine minority employees, $1,190,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1182]]

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $379,789,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $86,268,000: Provided, That 
such amount (together with any amounts appropriated for such salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 1997) shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 1998.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$18,276,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount (together with any amounts 
appropriated for such salaries and expenses for fiscal year 1997) shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 1998.

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $84,356,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $3,500, of which not 
more than $2,500 is for the Family Room, for official representation and 
reception expenses, $16,804,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages, and including not more than $750 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $3,564,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, $50,727,000, including 
$27,247,000 for salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of 
House Information Resources, of which $23,210,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That of the amount provided for House Information Resources, 
$8,253,000 shall be for net expenses of telecommunications: Provided 
further, That House Information Resources is authorized to receive 
reimbursement from Members of the House of Representatives and other 
governmental entities for services provided and such reimbursement shall 
be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $3,808,000, of 
which $1,000 shall be for the release of the Inspector General's Report 
on Management and Financial Irregularities--Office of the Chief 
Administrative Office: Provided further, That all names of persons 
making favorable or unfavorable statements in the report shall be 
expunged; for the Office of the Chaplain, $133,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Parliamentarian, including the 
Parliamentarian and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1183]]

$2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, $1,101,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, 
$1,821,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the House, $4,827,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Corrections Calendar Office, $791,000; and for other authorized 
employees, $780,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $127,756,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $2,225,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $500,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $124,390,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of 
House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
heirs of deceased employees of the House, $641,000.

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

<<NOTE: 2 USC 74d, 74d-1, 74d-2.>>     Sec. 101. The provisions of House 
Resolution 7, One Hundred Fifth Congress, agreed to January 7, 1997, 
establishing the Corrections Calendar Office, shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto. The provisions of House Resolution 130, One 
Hundred Fifth Congress, agreed to April 24, 1997, providing a lump sum 
allowance for the Corrections Calendar Office, shall be the permanent 
law with respect thereto.

<<NOTE: 2 USC 95b note.>>     Sec. 102. The funds and accounts specified 
in section 107(b) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1996 (2 
U.S.C. 123b note) shall be treated as categories of allowances and 
expenses for purposes of section 101(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(a)).

    Sec. 103. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1996 (2 U.S.C. 60o(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``who 
        is separated from employment,'';
            (2) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``employee'' the second place it appears and inserting 
        ``employee or for any other purpose''; and
            (3) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``the amount'' and 
        inserting ``in the case of a lump sum payment for the accrued 
        annual leave of the employee, the amount''.

<<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 60o note.>>     (b) The amendments made by 
subsection (a) shall apply to fiscal years beginning on or after October 
1, 1997.

    Sec. 104. (a) Section 104(c)(2) of the House of Representatives 
Administrative Reform Technical Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 92(c)(2)) is 
amended by striking ``in the District of Columbia''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1184]]

<<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 92 note.>>     (b) The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal years beginning on or 
after October 1, 1997.

    Sec. 105. (a) Section 204(11)(A) of the House of Representatives 
Administrative Reform Technical Corrections Act <<NOTE: 2 USC 72a.>>  
(110 Stat. 1731) is amended by striking out ``through `respective 
Houses' and'' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``through 
`respective Houses' the second place it appears and''.

<<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 72a note.>>     (b) The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall take effect as of August 20, 1996.

    Sec. 106. Section 104(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1987 (as incorporated by reference in section 101(j) of Public Law 
99-500 and Public Law 99-591) (2 U.S.C. 117e) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence of paragraph (2), by striking ``A 
        donation'' and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), 
        a donation'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:

    ``(3)(A) In the case of computer-related equipment, during fiscal 
year 1998 the Chief Administrative Officer may donate directly the 
equipment to a public elementary or secondary school of the District of 
Columbia without regard to whether the donation meets the requirements 
of the second sentence of paragraph (2), except that the total number of 
workstations donated as a result of this paragraph may not exceed 1,000.
    ``(B) In this paragraph--
            ``(i) the term `computer-related equipment' includes 
        desktops, laptops, printers, file servers, and peripherals which 
        are appropriate for use in public school education;
            ``(ii) the terms `public elementary school' and `public 
        secondary school' have the meaning given such terms in section 
        14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; and
            ``(iii) the term `workstation' includes desktops and 
        peripherals, file servers and peripherals, laptops and 
        peripherals, 
        printers and peripherals, and workstations and peripherals.

<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     ``(C) The Committee on House Oversight shall 
have authority to issue regulations to carry out this paragraph.''.

    Sec. 107. Title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives'' each place it appears in 
sections 5532(i)(2)(B), 5532(i)(3), 8344(k)(2)(B), 8344(k)(3), 
8468(h)(2)(B), and 8468(h)(3) and inserting ``the Committee on House 
Oversight of the House of Representatives''.
<<NOTE: Contracts. 2 USC 95c.>>     Sec. 108. (a) For fiscal year 1998 
and each succeeding fiscal year, the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives is authorized to make advance payments under a 
contract or other agreement to provide a service or deliver an article 
for the United States Government without regard to the provisions of 
section 3324 of title 31, United States Code.

<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     (b) An advance payment authorized by 
subsection (a) shall be made in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives.

    (c) The authority granted by subsection (a) shall not take effect 
until regulations are issued pursuant to subsection (b).
<<NOTE: 2 USC 95d.>>     Sec. 109. (a) There is hereby established an 
account in the House of Representatives for purposes of making payments 
of the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1185]]

House of Representatives to the Employees' Compensation Fund under 
section 8147 of title 5, United States Code.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payments may be made 
from the account established under subsection (a) at any time after the 
date of the enactment of this Act without regard to the fiscal year for 
which the obligation to make such payments is incurred.
    (c) The account established under subsection (a) shall be treated as 
a category of allowances and expenses for purposes of section 101(a) of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(a)).

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$2,750,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$804,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$5,815,500, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each to 
not to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $893,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,266,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous

[[Page 111 STAT. 1186]]

duty pay differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for 
members required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $70,955,000, of which $34,118,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House, and $36,837,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and $85 per month for 
extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board by an employee of 
the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
designated by the Chairman of the Board, $3,099,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 1998 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
the Treasury from funds available to the Department of the Treasury.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 110. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1998 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to 
        the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.

<<NOTE: Pay and leave. 40 USC 207b.>>     Sec. 111. (a)(1) The Capitol 
Police Board shall establish and maintain unified schedules of rates of 
basic pay for members and civilian employees of the Capitol Police which 
shall apply to both members and employees whose appointing authority is 
an officer of the Senate and members and employees whose appointing 
authority is an officer of the House of Representatives.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1187]]

    (2) The Capitol Police Board may, from time to time, adjust any 
schedule established under paragraph (1) to the extent that the Board 
determines appropriate to reflect changes in the cost of living and to 
maintain pay comparability.
    (3) A schedule established or revised under paragraph (1) or (2) 
shall take effect only upon approval by the Committee on House Oversight 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate.
    (4) A schedule approved under paragraph (3) shall have the force and 
effect of law.
<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     (b)(1) The Capitol Police Board shall 
prescribe, by regulation, a unified leave system for members and 
civilian employees of the Capitol Police which shall apply to both 
members and employees whose appointing authority is an officer of the 
Senate and members and employees whose appointing authority is an 
officer of the House of Representatives. The leave system shall include 
provisions for--
            (A) annual leave, based on years of service;
            (B) sick leave;
            (C) administrative leave;
            (D) leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 
        U.S.C. 2601 et seq.);
            (E) leave without pay and leave with reduced pay, including 
        provisions relating to contributions for benefits for any period 
        of such leave;
            (F) approval of all leave by the Chief or the designee of 
        the Chief;
            (G) the order in which categories of leave shall be used;
            (H) use, accrual, and carryover rules and limitations, 
        including rules and limitations for any period of active duty in 
        the Armed Forces;
            (I) advance of annual leave or sick leave after a member or 
        civilian employee has used all such accrued leave;
            (J) buy back of annual leave or sick leave used during an 
        extended recovery period in the case of an injury in the 
        performance of duty;
            (K) the use of accrued leave before termination of the 
        employment as a member or civilian employee of the Capitol 
        Police, with provision for lump sum payment for unused annual 
        leave; and
            (L) a leave-sharing program.

    (2) The leave system under this section may not provide for the 
accrual of either annual or sick leave for any period of leave without 
pay or leave with reduced pay.
    (3) All provisions of the leave system established under this 
subsection shall be subject to the approval of the Committee on House 
Oversight of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate. All regulations approved under this 
subsection shall have the force and effect of law.
    (c)(1) Upon the approval of the Capitol Police Board, a member or 
civilian employee of the Capitol Police who is separated from service 
may be paid a lump sum payment for the accrued annual leave of the 
member or civilian employee.
    (2) The lump sum payment under paragraph (1)--
            (A) shall equal the pay the member or civilian employee 
        would have received had such member or employee remained

[[Page 111 STAT. 1188]]

        in the service until the expiration of the period of annual 
        leave;
            (B) shall be paid from amounts appropriated to the Capitol 
        Police;
            (C) shall be based on the rate of basic pay in effect with 
        respect to the member or civilian employee on the last day of 
        service of the member or civilian employee;
            (D) shall not be calculated on the basis of extending the 
        period of leave described under subparagraph (A) by any holiday 
        occurring after the date of separation from service;
            (E) shall be considered pay for taxation purposes only; and
            (F) shall be paid only after the Chairman of the Capitol 
        Police Board certifies the applicable period of leave to the 
        Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of 
        the House of Representatives, as appropriate.

    (3) A member or civilian employee of the Capitol Police who enters 
active duty in the Armed Forces may--
            (A) receive a lump sum payment for accrued annual leave in 
        accordance with this subsection, in addition to any pay or 
        allowance payable from the Armed Forces; or
            (B) elect to have the leave remain to the credit of such 
        member or civilian employee until such member or civilian 
        employee returns from active duty.

    (4) The Capitol Police Board may prescribe regulations to carry out 
this subsection. No lump sum payment may be paid under this subsection 
until such regulations are approved by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House Oversight of the 
House of Representatives. All regulations approved under this subsection 
shall have the force and effect of law.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the 
appointing authority of any officer of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $1,991,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than forty individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board 
is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than ten additional individuals for not more than six months each, for 
the Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the One Hundred Fifth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1189]]

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,479,000.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $24,797,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of the Capitol and 
electrical substations of the Senate and House office buildings under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, including furnishings 
and office equipment, including not more than $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; <<NOTE: 40 USC 166a.>>  and not 
to exceed $20,000 for attendance, when specifically authorized by the 
Architect of the Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with 
subjects related to work under the Architect of the Capitol, 
$36,977,000, of which $7,500,000 shall remain available until expended.

                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,116,000, of which $745,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$52,021,000, of which $13,200,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date. 40 USC 174j-10.>>  That appropriations 
under this


[[Page 111 STAT. 1190]]

heading for management personnel and miscellaneous restaurant expenses 
hereafter shall be transferred at the beginning of each fiscal year to 
the special deposit account in the United States Treasury established 
under Public Law 87-82, approved July 6, 1961, as amended (40 U.S.C. 
174j-4), and effective October 1, 1997, all management personnel of the 
Senate Restaurant facilities shall be paid from the special deposit 
account. Management personnel transferred hereunder shall be paid at the 
same rates of pay applicable immediately prior to the date of transfer, 
and annual and sick leave balances shall be credited to leave accounts 
of such personnel in the Senate Restaurants.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $36,610,000, of which $8,082,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $33,932,000, of which $1,650,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not more than $4,000,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 1998.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$64,603,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Oversight of the House 
of 
Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate: Provided further, <<NOTE: 2 USC 166 note.>>  That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the compensation of the 
Director of the Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, 
shall be at an annual rate which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
pay for positions

[[Page 111 STAT. 1191]]

at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, 
United States Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be 
distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $81,669,000, of which 
$11,017,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Government Printing 
Office revolving fund under section 309 of title 44, United States Code: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for paper 
copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record for 
individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1998''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,016,000.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $227,016,000, of which not 
more than $7,869,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during

[[Page 111 STAT. 1192]]

fiscal year 1998, and shall remain available until expended, under the 
Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150): 
Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess 
of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations 
Acts: Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation 
shall be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than the 
$7,869,000: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$9,619,000 is to remain available until expended for acquisition of 
books, periodicals, 
newspapers, and all other materials including subscriptions for 
bibliographic services for the Library, including $40,000 to be 
available solely for the purchase, when specifically approved by the 
Librarian, of special and unique materials for additions to the 
collections: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$5,584,000 is to remain available until expended for the acquisition and 
partial support for implementation of an integrated library system 
(ILS).

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $34,361,000, of which not more than $17,340,000 shall be 
derived from collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal 
year 1998 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), and not more than $5,086,000 shall be 
derived from collections during fiscal year 1998 under 17 U.S.C. 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: Provided, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $22,426,000: Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright 
Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals 
of developing countries in intellectual property laws and policies: 
Provided further, That not more than $2,250 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $46,561,000, of which 
$12,944,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, and repair of 
furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, $4,178,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1193]]

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $194,290, of 
which $58,100 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
            (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
            (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
        work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
        the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a)(10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of 
Congress from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative 
overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other 
agencies under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be 
used to employ more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations 
        Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or
                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 204. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. (a) For fiscal year 1998, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $100,490,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the legislative 
branch.
<<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 182.>>     Sec. 207. (a) Establishment.--
Effective October 1, 1997, there is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a revolving

[[Page 111 STAT. 1194]]

fund to be known as the Cooperative Acquisitions Program Revolving Fund 
(in this section referred to as the ``revolving fund''). Moneys in the 
revolving fund shall be available to the Librarian of Congress, without 
fiscal year limitation, for financing the cooperative acquisitions 
program (in this section referred to as the ``program'') under which the 
Library acquires foreign publications and research materials on behalf 
of participating institutions on a cost-recovery basis. Obligations 
under the revolving fund are limited to amounts specified in the 
appropriations Act for that purpose for any fiscal year.
    (b) Amounts Deposited.--The revolving fund shall consist of--
            (1) any amounts appropriated by law for the purposes of the 
        revolving fund;
            (2) any amounts held by the Librarian as of October 1, 1997 
        or the date of enactment, whichever is later, that were 
        collected as payment for the Library's indirect costs of the 
        program; and
            (3) the difference between (A) the total value of the 
        supplies, equipment, gift fund balances, and other assets of the 
        program, and (B) the total value of the liabilities (including 
        unfunded liabilities such as the value of accrued annual leave 
        of employees) of the program.

    (c) Credits to the Revolving Fund.--The revolving fund shall be 
credited with all advances and amounts received as payment for purchases 
under the program and services and supplies furnished to program 
participants, at rates estimated by the Librarian to be adequate to 
recover the full direct and indirect costs of the program to the Library 
over a reasonable period of time.
    (d) Unobligated Balances.--Any unobligated and unexpended balances 
in the revolving fund that the Librarian determines to be in excess of 
amounts needed for activities financed by the revolving fund, shall be 
deposited in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous 
receipts. Amounts needed for activities financed by the revolving fund 
means the direct and indirect costs of the program, including the costs 
of purchasing, shipping, binding of books and other library materials; 
supplies, materials, equipment and services needed in support of the 
program; salaries and benefits; general overhead; and travel.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than March 31 of each year, the 
Librarian of Congress shall prepare and submit to Congress an audited 
financial statement for the revolving fund for the preceding fiscal 
year. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with Government 
Auditing Standards for financial audits issued by the Comptroller 
General of the United States.
    Sec. 208. Authority of the Board To Invest Gift Funds.--Section 4 of 
the Act entitled ``An Act to create a Library of Congress Trust Fund 
Board, and for other purposes'', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 160), 
is amended by adding at the end the following new undesignated 
paragraph:
    ``Upon agreement by the Librarian of Congress and the Board, a gift 
or bequest accepted by the Librarian under the first paragraph of this 
section may be invested or reinvested in the same manner as provided for 
trust funds under the second paragraph of section 2.''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1195]]

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$11,573,000, of which $3,910,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,077,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $150,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 1996 and 
1997 to depository and other designated libraries.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or 
purchase of not more than twelve passenger motor vehicles: Provided 
further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to 
carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of 
the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available 
for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,550 workyears: 
Provided further, That activities financed through the revolving fund 
may provide information in any format: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall not

[[Page 111 STAT. 1196]]

be used to administer any flexible or compressed work schedule which 
applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade or level of 
which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That expenses 
for attendance at meetings shall not exceed $75,000: Provided further, 
That $1,500,000 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer, for reimbursement to the General Accounting Office, for a 
management audit.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; 
benefits comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6) and 
901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6) 
and 4081(8)); and under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller 
General of the United States, rental of living quarters in foreign 
countries; $339,499,000: Provided, That not more than $1,000,000 of 
reimbursements received incident to the operation of the General 
Accounting Office Building shall be available for use in fiscal year 
1998: Provided further, That an additional amount of $4,404,000 shall be 
available by transfer from funds previously deposited in the special 
account established pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 782: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 31 USC 9105 note.>>  That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to the Comptroller General pursuant to 
that section shall be deposited to the appropriation of the General 
Accounting Office then available and remain available until expended, 
and not more than $2,000,000 of such funds shall be available for use in 
fiscal year 1998: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the Joint Financial Management Improvement 
Program (JFMIP) shall be available to finance an appropriate share of 
JFMIP costs as determined by the JFMIP, including the salary of the 
Executive Director and secretarial support: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including necessary 
travel expenses of non-Federal participants. Payments hereunder to 
either the Forum or the JFMIP may be credited as reimbursements to any 
appropriation from which costs involved are initially financed: Provided 
further, That this appropriation and appropriations for administrative 
expenses of any other department or agency which is a member of the 
American Consortium on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall 
be available to finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as 
determined

[[Page 111 STAT. 1197]]

by the ACIPA, including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA 
in the International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Oversight and for the Senate issued by the 
Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond fiscal year 1998 unless expressly so 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in 
this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
<<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>     Sec. 304. The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate

[[Page 111 STAT. 1198]]

share of LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total 
LBFMC costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch 
entities (in such allocations among the entities as the entities may 
determine) may not exceed $1,500.
    Sec. 308. (a) Section 713(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``Senate,'' the following: ``or the seal of 
the United States House of Representatives, or the seal of the United 
States Congress,''.
    (b) Section 713 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsections:

    ``(d) Whoever, except as directed by the United States House of 
Representatives, or the Clerk of the House of Representatives on its 
behalf, knowingly uses, manufactures, reproduces, sells or purchases for 
resale, either separately or appended to any article manufactured or 
sold, any likeness of the seal of the United States House of 
Representatives, or any substantial part thereof, except for manufacture 
or sale of the article for the official use of the Government of the 
United States, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more 
than six months, or both.
    ``(e) Whoever, except as directed by the United States Congress, or 
the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives, acting jointly on its behalf, knowingly uses, 
manufactures, reproduces, sells or purchases for resale, either 
separately or appended to any article manufactured or sold, any likeness 
of the seal of the United States Congress, or any substantial part 
thereof, except for manufacture or sale of the article for the official 
use of the Government of the United States, shall be fined under this 
title or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.''.
    (c) Section 713(f) of title 18, United States Code (as redesignated 
by subsection (b)(1)), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) in the case of the seal of the United States House of 
        Representatives, upon complaint by the Clerk of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            ``(4) in the case of the seal of the United States Congress, 
        upon complaint by the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of 
        the House of Representatives, acting jointly.''.

    (d) The heading of section 713 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``and the seal of the United States Senate'' and 
inserting the following: ``the seal of the United States Senate, the 
seal of the United States House of 
Representatives, and the seal of the United States Congress''.
    (e) The table of sections for chapter 33 of part I of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by amending the item relating to section 
713 to read as follows:

``713. Use of likenesses of the great seal of the United States, the 
           seals of the 
           President and Vice President, the seal of the United States 
           Senate, the seal of the United States House of 
           Representatives, and the seal of the United States 
           Congress.''.

<<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-6.>>     Sec. 309. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 
is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``1997'' 
and inserting ``1998''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1199]]

<<NOTE: 40 USC 174j-1 note.>>     Sec. 310. (a) Severance Pay.--Section 
5595 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon; and
                    (B) by adding after subparagraph (E) the following 
                new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, 
                but only with respect to the United States Senate 
                Restaurants; and'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in clause (vii) by striking ``or'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating clause (viii) as clause (ix) 
                and inserting after clause (vii) the following:
                          ``(viii) an employee of the United States 
                      Senate Restaurants of the Office of the Architect 
                      of the Capitol, who is employed on a temporary 
                      when actually employed basis; or''; and
            (3) in subsection (b) by adding at the end the following: 
        ``The Architect of the Capitol may prescribe regulations to 
        effect the application and operation of this section to the 
        agency specified in subsection (a)(1)(F) of this section.''.

<<NOTE: Applicability.>>     (b) Early Retirement.--(1) This subsection 
applies to an employee of the United States Senate Restaurants of the 
Office of the Architect of the Capitol who--
            (A) voluntarily separates from service on or after the date 
        of enactment of this Act and before October 1, 1999; and
            (B) on such date of separation--
                    (i) has completed 25 years of service as defined 
                under section 8331(12) or 8401(26) of title 5, United 
                States 
                Code; or
                    (ii) has completed 20 years of such service and is 
                at least 50 years of age.

    (2) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, 
United States Code, an employee described under paragraph (1) is 
entitled to an annuity which shall be computed consistent with the 
provisions of law applicable to annuities under section 8336(d) or 
8414(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--(1) In this 
subsection, the term ``employee'' means an employee of the United States 
Senate Restaurants of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, 
serving without limitation, who has been currently employed for a 
continuous period of at least 12 months, except that such term shall not 
include--
            (A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system for employees of the Government;
            (B) an employee having a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under any of the retirement systems referred to in subparagraph 
        (A); or
            (C) an employee who is employed on a temporary when actually 
        employed basis.

    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in order to avoid or 
minimize the need for involuntary separations due to a reduction in 
force, reorganization, transfer of function, or other similar action 
affecting the agency, the Architect of the Capitol

[[Page 111 STAT. 1200]]

shall establish a program under which voluntary separation incentive 
payments may be offered to encourage not more than 50 eligible employees 
to separate from service voluntarily (whether by retirement or 
resignation) during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act through September 30, 1999.
    (3) Such voluntary separation incentive payments shall be paid in 
accordance with the provisions of section 5597(d) of title 5, United 
States Code. Any such payment shall not be a basis of payment, and shall 
not be included in the computation, of any other type of Government 
benefit.
    (4)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), an employee who has received a 
voluntary separation incentive payment under this section and accepts 
employment with the Government of the United States within 5 years after 
the date of the separation on which the payment is based shall be 
required to repay the entire amount of the incentive payment to the 
agency that paid the incentive payment.
    (B)(i) If the employment is with an executive agency (as defined by 
section 105 of title 5, United States Code), the Director of the Office 
of Personnel Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, 
waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique 
abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the 
position.
    (ii) If the employment is with an entity in the legislative branch, 
the head of the entity or the appointing official may waive the 
repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
the only qualified applicant available for the position.
    (iii) If the employment is with the judicial branch, the Director of 
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may waive the 
repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
the only qualified applicant available for the position.
    (C) For purposes of subparagraph (A) (but not subparagraph (B)), the 
term ``employment'' includes employment under a personal services 
contract with the United States.
    (5) The Architect of the Capitol may prescribe regulations to carry 
out this subsection.
    (d) Competitive Service Treatment for Certain Employees.--(1) 
This <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  subsection applies to any employee of the 
United States Senate Restaurants of the Office of the Architect of the 
Capitol who--
            (A) is involuntarily separated from service on or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and before October 1, 1999 
        (except by removal for cause on charges of misconduct or 
        delinquency); and
            (B) has performed any period of service employed in the 
        Office of the Architect of the Capitol (including the United 
        States Senate Restaurants) in a position in the excepted service 
        as defined under section 2103 of title 5, United States Code.

    (2) For purposes of applying for employment for any position in the 
executive branch (including for purposes of the administration of 
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, with respect to such 
employment application), any period of service described under paragraph 
(1)(B) of this subsection shall be deemed a period of service in the 
competitive service as defined under section 2102 of title 5, United 
States Code.
    (3) This subsection shall--
        <<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (A) take effect on the date of 
        enactment of this Act; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1201]]

        <<NOTE: Applicability.>>     (B) apply only to an employment 
        application submitted by an employee during the 2-year period 
        beginning on the date of such employee's separation from service 
        described under paragraph (1)(A).

    (e) Retraining, Job Placement, and Counseling Services.--(1) In this 
subsection, the term ``employee''--
            (A) means an employee of the United States Senate 
        Restaurants of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol; and
            (B) shall not include--
                    (i) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of 
                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, 
                or another retirement system for employees of the 
                Government; or
                    (ii) an employee who is employed on a temporary when 
                actually employed basis.

    (2) The Architect of the Capitol may establish a program to provide 
retraining, job placement, and counseling services to employees and 
former employees.
    (3) A former employee may not participate in a program established 
under this subsection, if--
            (A) the former employee was separated from service with the 
        United States Senate Restaurants of the Office of the Architect 
        of the Capitol for more than 1 year; or
            (B) the separation was by removal for cause on charges of 
        misconduct or delinquency.

    (4) Retraining costs for the program established under this 
subsection may not exceed $5,000 for each employee or former employee.
    (f) Administrative Provisions.--(1) The Architect of the 
Capitol--
            (A) may use employees of the Office of the Architect of the 
        Capitol to establish and administer programs and carry out the 
        provisions of this section; and
            (B) may procure temporary and intermittent services under 
        section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, to carry out 
        such provisions--
                    (i) not subject to the 1 year of service limitation 
                under such section 3109(b); and
                    (ii) at rates for individuals which do not exceed 
                the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
                prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
                section 5316 of such title.

    (2) Funds to carry out subsections (a) and (c) may be expended only 
from funds available for the basic pay of the employee who is receiving 
the applicable payment.
    (3) Funds to carry out subsection (e) may be expended from any funds 
made available to the Architect of the Capitol.
    Sec. 311. (a) Rate of Pay for Director of Engineering.--Section 
108(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 (40 U.S.C. 
166b-3b(a)) is amended by striking ``the rate of basic pay payable for 
level V of the Executive Schedule'' and inserting ``such rate as the 
Architect considers appropriate, not to exceed 90 percent of the highest 
total rate of pay for the Senior Executive Service under chapter 53 of 
title 5, United States Code, for the locality involved''.
    (b) Applicable Rate of Pay.--Section 108(b)(1) of such Act (40 
U.S.C. 166b-3b(b)(1)) is amended--

[[Page 111 STAT. 1202]]

            (1) by striking the second sentence; and
            (2) by striking ``the maximum rate allowable for the Senior 
        Executive Service'' each place it appears in subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) and inserting the following: ``the highest total rate of 
        pay for the Senior Executive Service under chapter 53 of title 
        5, United States Code, for the locality involved''.

<<NOTE: 40 USC 166b-3b note.>>     (c) Effective Date.--The amendments 
made by this section shall apply with respect to pay periods beginning 
on or after 
January 1, 1998.

    Sec. 312. Any amount appropriated in this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 1998. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for such 
fiscal year shall be deposited in the Treasury, to be used for deficit 
reduction.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.

    Approved October 7, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2209 (S. 1019):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-196 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-254 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-47 accompanying S. 1019 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            July 28, considered and passed House.
            July 29, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 24, House and Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>