[105th Congress Public Law 208]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ208.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 879]]

Public Law 105-208
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To facilitate the sale of certain land in Tahoe National Forest in the 
   State of California to Placer County, California. <<NOTE: July 29, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 1439]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, TAHOE NATIONAL FOREST, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Sale Authorized.--Subject to all valid existing rights, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may sell to Placer County, California (in this 
section referred to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, consisting of 
approximately 35 acres located in Tahoe National Forest in the State of 
California to permit the County to create a community park in Squaw 
Valley.
    (b) Description of Property.--The parcel to be conveyed under 
subsection (a) is generally depicted on a map entitled ``Placer County 
Conveyance'', dated April 1997, which shall be available for public 
inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretary. The map and attached 
approximate legal description are subject to adjustment by survey. The 
cost of any such survey shall be borne by the County.
    (c) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the County shall pay to the United States an amount 
equal to the fair market value of the conveyed parcel, as determined in 
conformance with the document entitled ``Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
Federal Land Acquisitions (1992)''. The proceeds from the sale shall be 
deposited in the fund established by Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a; 
commonly known as the Sisk Act) and shall be available for expenditure 
in accordance with such Act.
    (d) Existing Uses.--As a condition on the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the County shall agree to provide for continuation of 
any existing non-Federal improvements or uses on the conveyed parcel for 
the remainder of the terms of the existing authorizations.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

    Approved July 29, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1439:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-114 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-231 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 143 (1997):
                                    June 3, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 144 (1998):
                                    July 17, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>