[105th Congress Public Law 80]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ80.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 1529]]

Public Law 105-80
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To make technical amendments to certain provisions of title 17, United 
           States Code. <<NOTE: Nov. 13, 1997 -  [H.R. 672]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 17 USC 119.>> TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE SATELLITE 
            HOME VIEWER ACT OF 1994.

    The Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-369) is 
amended as follows:
            (1) Section 2(3)(A) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) in clause (i) by striking `12 cents' and 
                inserting `17.5 cents per subscriber in the case of 
                superstations that as retransmitted by the satellite 
                carrier include any program which, if delivered by any 
                cable system in the United States, would be subject to 
                the syndicated exclusivity rules of the Federal 
                Communications Commission, and 14 cents per subscriber 
                in the case of superstations that are syndex-proof as 
                defined in section 258.2 of title 37, Code of Federal 
                Regulations'; and''.
            (2) Section 2(4) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Subsection (c) is amended--
                    ``(A) in paragraph (1)--
                          ``(i) by striking `until December 31, 1992,';
                          ``(ii) by striking `(2), (3) or (4)' and 
                      inserting `(2) or (3)'; and
                          ``(iii) by striking the second sentence;
                    ``(B) in paragraph (2)--
                          ``(i) in subparagraph (A) by striking `July 1, 
                      1991' and inserting `July 1, 1996'; and
                          ``(ii) in subparagraph (D) by striking 
                      `December 31, 1994' and inserting `December 31, 
                      1999, or in accordance with the terms of the 
                      agreement, whichever is later'; and
                    ``(C) in paragraph (3)--
                          ``(i) in subparagraph (A) by striking 
                      `December 31, 1991' and inserting `January 1, 
                      1997';
                          ``(ii) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as 
                      follows:
                    ```(B) Establishment of royalty fees.--In 
                determining royalty fees under this paragraph, the 
                copyright arbitration royalty panel appointed under 
                chapter 8 shall establish fees for the retransmission of 
                network stations and superstations that most clearly 
                represent the fair market value of secondary 
                transmissions. In determining the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1530]]

                fair market value, the panel shall base its decision on 
                economic, competitive, and programming information 
                presented by the parties, including--
                          ```(i) the competitive environment in which 
                      such programming is distributed, the cost of 
                      similar signals in similar private and compulsory 
                      license marketplaces, and any special features and 
                      conditions of the retransmission marketplace;
                          ```(ii) the economic impact of such fees on 
                      copyright owners and satellite carriers; and
                          ```(iii) the impact on the continued 
                      availability of secondary transmissions to the 
                      public.'; and
                          ``(iii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting `or 
                      July 1, 1997, whichever is later' after `section 
                      802(g)'.''.
            (3) Section 2(5)(A) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A) in paragraph (5)(C) by striking `the date of 
                the enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1988' 
                and inserting `November 16, 1988'; and''.

SEC. 2. COPYRIGHT IN RESTORED WORKS.

    Section 104A of title 17, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) Subsection (d)(3)(A) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Existing derivative works.--(A) In the case of a 
        derivative work that is based upon a restored work and is 
        created--
                    ``(i) before the date of the enactment of the 
                Uruguay Round Agreements Act, if the source country of 
                the restored work is an eligible country on such date, 
                or
                    ``(ii) before the date on which the source country 
                of the restored work becomes an eligible country, if 
                that country is not an eligible country on such date of 
                enactment,
        a reliance party may continue to exploit that derivative work 
        for the duration of the restored copyright if the reliance party 
        pays to the owner of the restored copyright reasonable 
        compensation for conduct which would be subject to a remedy for 
        infringement but for the provisions of this paragraph.''.
            (2) Subsection (e)(1)(B)(ii) is amended by striking the last 
        sentence.
            (3) Subsection (h)(2) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) The `date of restoration' of a restored copyright is--
                    ``(A) January 1, 1996, if the source country of the 
                restored work is a nation adhering to the Berne 
                Convention or a WTO member country on such date, or
                    ``(B) the date of adherence or proclamation, in the 
                case of any other source country of the restored 
                work.''.
            (4) Subsection (h)(3) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) The term `eligible country' means a nation, other than 
        the United States, that--
                    ``(A) becomes a WTO member country after the date of 
                the enactment of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act;
                    ``(B) on such date of enactment is, or after such 
                date of enactment becomes, a member of the Berne 
                Convention; or
                    ``(C) after such date of enactment becomes subject 
                to a proclamation under subsection (g).

[[Page 111 STAT. 1531]]

        For purposes of this section, a nation that is a member of the 
        Berne Convention on the date of the enactment of the Uruguay 
        Round Agreements Act shall be construed to become an eligible 
        country on such date of enactment.''.

SEC. 3. LICENSES FOR NONEXEMPT SUBSCRIPTION TRANSMISSIONS.

    Section 114(f) of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, or, <<NOTE: Federal 
        Register, publication.>>  if a copyright arbitration royalty 
        panel is convened, ending 30 days after the Librarian issues and 
        publishes in the Federal Register an order adopting the 
        determination of the copyright arbitration royalty panel or an 
        order setting the terms and rates (if the Librarian rejects the 
        panel's determination)'' after ``December 31, 2000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and publish in the 
        Federal Register''.

SEC. 4. ROYALTY PAYABLE UNDER COMPULSORY LICENSE.

    Section 115(c)(3)(D) of title 17, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``and publish in the Federal Register''.

SEC. 5. NEGOTIATED LICENSE FOR JUKEBOXES.

    Section 116 of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (b)(2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Arbitration.--Parties not subject to such a 
        negotiation may determine, by arbitration in accordance with the 
        provisions of chapter 8, the terms and rates and the division of 
        fees described in paragraph (1).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) Definitions.--As used in this section, the following terms 
mean the following:
            ``(1) A `coin-operated phonorecord player' is a machine or 
        device that--
                    ``(A) is employed solely for the performance of 
                nondramatic musical works by means of phonorecords upon 
                being activated by the insertion of coins, currency, 
                tokens, or other monetary units or their equivalent;
                    ``(B) is located in an establishment making no 
                direct or indirect charge for admission;
                    ``(C) is accompanied by a list which is comprised of 
                the titles of all the musical works available for 
                performance on it, and is affixed to the phonorecord 
                player or posted in the establishment in a prominent 
                position where it can be readily examined by the public; 
                and
                    ``(D) affords a choice of works available for 
                performance and permits the choice to be made by the 
                patrons of the establishment in which it is located.
            ``(2) An `operator' is any person who, alone or jointly with 
        others--
                    ``(A) owns a coin-operated phonorecord player;
                    ``(B) has the power to make a coin-operated 
                phonorecord player available for placement in an 
                establishment for purposes of public performance; or
                    ``(C) has the power to exercise primary control over 
                the selection of the musical works made available for 
                public performance on a coin-operated phonorecord 
                player.''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1532]]

SEC. 6. REGISTRATION AND INFRINGEMENT ACTIONS.

    Section 411(b)(1) of title 17, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(1) serves notice upon the infringer, not less than 48 
        hours before such fixation, identifying the work and the 
        specific time and source of its first transmission, and 
        declaring an intention to secure copyright in the work; and''.

SEC. 7. COPYRIGHT OFFICE FEES.

    (a) Fee Increases.--Section 708(b) of title 17, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) In calendar year 1997 and in any subsequent calendar year, the 
Register of Copyrights, by regulation, may increase the fees specified 
in subsection (a) in the following manner:
            ``(1) The Register shall conduct a study of the costs 
        incurred by the Copyright Office for the registration of claims, 
        the recordation of documents, and the provision of services. The 
        study shall also consider the timing of any increase in fees and 
        the authority to use such fees consistent with the budget.
            ``(2) The Register may, on the basis of the study under 
        paragraph (1), and subject to paragraph (5), increase fees to 
        not more than that necessary to cover the reasonable costs 
        incurred by the Copyright Office for the services described in 
        paragraph (1), plus a reasonable inflation adjustment to account 
        for any estimated increase in costs.
            ``(3) Any fee established under paragraph (2) shall be 
        rounded off to the nearest dollar, or for a fee less than $12, 
        rounded off to the nearest 50 cents.
            ``(4) Fees established under this subsection shall be fair 
        and equitable and give due consideration to the objectives of 
        the copyright system.
            ``(5) If the Register determines under paragraph (2) that 
        fees should be increased, the Register shall prepare a proposed 
        fee schedule and submit the schedule with the accompanying 
        economic analysis to the Congress. The fees proposed by the 
        Register may be instituted after the end of 120 days after the 
        schedule is submitted to the Congress unless, within that 120-
        day period, a law is enacted stating in substance that the 
        Congress does not approve the schedule.''.

    (b) Deposit of Fees.--Section 708(d) of such title is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), all fees received 
under this section shall be deposited by the Register of Copyrights in 
the Treasury of the United States and shall be credited to the 
appropriations for necessary expenses of the Copyright Office. Such fees 
that are collected shall remain available until expended. The Register 
may, in accordance with regulations that he or she shall prescribe, 
refund any sum paid by mistake or in excess of the fee required by this 
section.
    ``(2) In the case of fees deposited against future services, the 
Register of Copyrights shall request the Secretary of the Treasury to 
invest in interest-bearing securities in the United States Treasury any 
portion of the fees that, as determined by the Register, is not required 
to meet current deposit account demands. Funds from such portion of fees 
shall be invested in securities that permit funds to be available to the 
Copyright Office at all times if they are determined to be necessary to 
meet current deposit account

[[Page 111 STAT. 1533]]

demands. Such investments shall be in public debt securities with 
maturities suitable to the needs of the Copyright Office, as determined 
by the Register of Copyrights, and bearing interest at rates determined 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current 
market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States 
of comparable maturities.
    ``(3) The income on such investments shall be deposited in the 
Treasury of the United States and shall be credited to the 
appropriations for necessary expenses of the Copyright Office.''.

SEC. 8. COPYRIGHT ARBITRATION ROYALTY PANELS.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose.--Section 801 of title 17, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1) by striking ``and 116'' in the 
        first sentence and inserting ``116, and 119'';
            (2) in subsection (c) by inserting after ``panel'' at the 
        end of the sentence the following:

``, including--
            ``(1) authorizing the distribution of those royalty fees 
        collected under sections 111, 119, and 1005 that the Librarian 
        has found are not subject to controversy; and
            ``(2) accepting or rejecting royalty claims filed under 
        sections 111, 119, and 1007 on the basis of timeliness or the 
        failure to establish the basis for a claim''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:

    ``(d) Support and Reimbursement of Arbitration Panels.--The 
Librarian of Congress, upon the recommendation of the Register of 
Copyrights, shall provide the copyright arbitration royalty panels with 
the necessary administrative services related to proceedings under this 
chapter, and shall reimburse the arbitrators presiding in distribution 
proceedings at such intervals and in such manner as the Librarian shall 
provide by regulation. Each such arbitrator is an independent contractor 
acting on behalf of the United States, and shall be hired pursuant to a 
signed agreement between the Library of Congress and the arbitrator. 
Payments to the arbitrators shall be considered reasonable costs 
incurred by the Library of Congress and the Copyright Office for 
purposes of section 802(h)(1).''.
    (b) Proceedings.--Section 802(h) of title 17, United States Code, is 
amended by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) Deduction of costs of library of congress and 
        copyright office from royalty fees.--The Librarian of Congress 
        and the Register of Copyrights may, to the extent not otherwise 
        provided under this title, deduct from royalty fees deposited or 
        collected under this title the reasonable costs incurred by the 
        Library of Congress and the Copyright Office under this chapter. 
        Such deduction may be made before the fees are distributed to 
        any copyright claimants. In addition, all funds made available 
        by an appropriations Act as offsetting collections and available 
        for deductions under this subsection shall remain available 
        until expended. In ratemaking proceedings, the reasonable costs 
        of the Librarian of Congress and the Copyright Office shall be 
        borne by the parties to the proceedings as directed by the 
        arbitration panels under subsection (c).''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1534]]

SEC. 9. DIGITAL AUDIO RECORDING DEVICES AND MEDIA.

    Section 1007(b) of title 17, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Within 30 days after'' in the first sentence and inserting 
``After''.

SEC. 10. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    Section 4 of the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act 
of 1995 (Public Law 104-39) <<NOTE: 17 USC 115.>>  is amended by 
redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).

SEC. 11. DISTRIBUTION OF PHONORECORDS.

    Section 303 of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Copyright'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Copyright''; and
            (2) by inserting at the end the following:

    ``(b) The distribution before January 1, 1978, of a phonorecord 
shall not for any purpose constitute a publication of the musical work 
embodied therein.''.

SEC. 12. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Amendments to Title 17, United States Code.--Title 17, United 
States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) The table of chapters at the beginning of title 17, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the item relating to chapter 6, by striking 
                ``Requirement'' and inserting ``Requirements'';
                    (B) in the item relating to chapter 8, by striking 
                ``Royalty Tribunal'' and inserting ``Arbitration Royalty 
                Panels'';
                    (C) in the item relating to chapter 9, by striking 
                ``semiconductor chip products'' and inserting 
                ``Semiconductor Chip Products''; and
                    (D) by inserting after the item relating to chapter 
                9 the following:

``10. Digital Audio Recording Devices and Media..................1001''.

            (2) The item relating to section 117 in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of chapter 1 is amended to read as 
        follows:

``117. Limitations on exclusive rights: Computer programs.''.

            (3) Section 101 is amended in the definition of to perform 
        or display a work ``publicly'' by striking ``processs'' and 
        inserting ``process''.
            (4) Section 108(e) is amended by striking ``pair'' and 
        inserting ``fair''.
            (5) Section 109(b)(2)(B) is amended by striking 
        ``Copyright'' and inserting ``Copyrights''.
            (6) Section 110 is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (8) by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (9) by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (10) by striking ``4 above'' and 
                inserting ``(4)''.
            (7) Section 115(c)(3)(E) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (i) by striking ``sections 106(1) and 
                (3)'' each place it appears and inserting ``paragraphs 
                (1) and (3) of section 106''; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1535]]

                    (B) in clause (ii)(II) by striking ``sections 106(1) 
                and 106(3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) and (3) of 
                section 106''.
            (8) Section 119(c)(1) is amended by striking ``until 
        unless'' and inserting ``unless''.
            (9) Section 304(c) is amended in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1) by striking ``the subsection (a)(1)(C)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(C)''.
            (10) Section 405(b) is amended by striking ``condition or'' 
        and inserting ``condition for''.
            (11) Section 407(d)(2) is amended by striking ``cost of'' 
        and inserting ``cost to''.
            (12) The item relating to section 504 in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of chapter 5 is amended by striking 
        ``Damage'' and inserting ``Damages''.
            (13) Section 504(c)(2) is amended by striking ``court it'' 
        and inserting ``court in''.
            (14) Section 509(b) is amended by striking ``merchandise; 
        and baggage'' and inserting ``merchandise, and baggage''.
            (15) Section 601(a) is amended by striking ``nondramtic'' 
        and inserting ``nondramatic''.
            (16) Section 601(b)(1) is amended by striking 
        ``subsustantial'' and inserting ``substantial''.
            (17) The item relating to section 710 in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of chapter 7 is amended by striking 
        ``Reproductions'' and inserting ``Reproduction''.
            (18) The item relating to section 801 in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of chapter 8 is amended by striking 
        ``establishment'' and inserting ``Establishment''.
            (19) Section 801(b) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``shall be--'' and inserting ``shall 
                be as follows:'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1) by striking ``to make'' and 
                inserting ``To make'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) by striking ``to make'' and inserting ``To 
                      make''; and
                          (ii) in subparagraph (D) by striking 
                      ``adjustment; and'' and inserting ``adjustment.''; 
                      and
                    (D) in paragraph (3) by striking ``to distribute'' 
                and inserting ``To distribute''.
            (20) Section 803(b) is amended in the second sentence by 
        striking ``subsection subsection'' and inserting ``subsection''.
            (21) The item relating to section 903 in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of chapter 9 is amended to read as 
        follows:

``903. Ownership, transfer, licensure, and recordation.''.

            (22) Section 909(b)(1) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``force'' and inserting ``work''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``sumbol'' and inserting ``symbol''.
            (23) Section 910(a) is amended in the second sentence by 
        striking ``as used'' and inserting ``As used''.
            (24) Section 1006(b)(1) is amended by striking ``Federation 
        Television'' and inserting ``Federation of Television''.
            (25) Section 1007 is amended--

[[Page 111 STAT. 1536]]

                    (A) in subsection (a)(1) by striking ``the calendar 
                year in which this chapter takes effect'' and inserting 
                ``calendar year 1992''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b) by striking ``the year in 
                which this section takes effect'' and inserting 
                ``1992''.

    (b) Related Provisions.--
            (1) Section 1(a)(1) of the Act entitled ``An Act to amend 
        chapter 9 of title 17, United States Code, regarding protection 
        extended to semiconductor chip products of foreign entities'', 
        approved November 9, 1987 (17 U.S.C. 914 note), is amended by 
        striking ``orginating'' and inserting ``originating''.
            (2) Section 2319(b)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``last 10'' and inserting ``least 10''.

SEC. 13. EFFECTIVE DATES. <<NOTE: 17 USC 119 note.>> 

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), the 
amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Satellite Home Viewer Act.--The amendments made by section 1 
shall be effective as if enacted as part of the Satellite Home Viewer 
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-369).
    (c) Technical Amendment.--The amendment made by section 12(b)(1) 
shall be effective as if enacted on November 9, 1987.

    Approved November 13, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 672 (S. 506):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-25 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Mar. 18, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 30, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 4, House concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>