[105th Congress Public Law 190]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ190.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 623]]

Public Law 105-190
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To extend the deadline under the Federal Power Act for the construction 
 of a hydroelectric project located in the State of Washington, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: July 14, 1998 -  [H.R. 652]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified in 
section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
apply to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission project numbered 9025, the 
Commission shall, upon the request of the project licensee, in 
accordance with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest 
requirements of that section and the Commission's procedures under that 
section, extend the time period during which the licensee is required to 
commence construction of the project for not more than 3 consecutive 2-
year periods.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Applicability.--An extension under 
subsection (a) shall take effect for a project upon the expiration of 
the extension, issued by the Commission under section 13 of the Federal 
Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806), of the period required for commencement of 
construction of the project.

    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the license for the 
project referred to in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license 
effective as of the date of its expiration and extend the time required 
for commencement of construction of the project as provided in 
subsection (a) for not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods, the first 
of which shall commence on the date of such expiration.

    Approved July 14, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 652:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-13 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-134 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 143 (1997):
                                    Mar. 11, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 144 (1998):
                                    June 25, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>