[105th Congress Public Law 152]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ152.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 2688]]

Public Law 105-152
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the reimbursement of members of the Army deployed to Europe 
 in support of operations in Bosnia for certain out-of-pocket expenses 
incurred by the members during the period beginning on October 1, 1996, 
   and ending on May 31, 1997. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 1997 -  [H.R. 2796]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Army Reserve-
National Guard Equity Reimbursement Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Army Reserve-National Guard Equity 
Reimbursement Act''.

SEC. 2. REIMBURSEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMY DEPLOYED IN EUROPE IN 
            SUPPORT OF BOSNIA OPERATIONS FOR 
            OUT-OF-POCKET EXPENSES INCURRED TO TRANSPORT PERSONAL 
            PROPERTY.

    (a) Reimbursement Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
reimburse an individual described in subsection (b) for expenses 
incurred by that individual while a member of the Army for shipment of 
personal property of the individual to or from Europe during the period 
beginning on October 1, 1996, and ending on May 31, 1997, if the 
shipment of the personal property, if made on June 1, 1997, would have 
been covered by a temporary change of station weight allowance for 
shipment of personal 
property authorized by the Department of the Army. Such reimbursement 
shall be made from amounts available as of the date of the enactment of 
this section for the payment of the temporary change of station weight 
allowance.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--An individual referred to in subsection 
(a) is an individual who, as a member of the Army during the period 
beginning on October 1, 1996, and ending on May 31, 1997, was deployed 
from the United States to Europe in support of operations in Bosnia or 
reassigned from Europe to United States upon the completion of such 
deployment, or both, under travel orders that did not authorize a 
temporary change of station weight allowance for shipment of personal 
property of the member.

    Approved December 17, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2796:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Nov. 13, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>