[105th Congress Public Law 282]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ282.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 2698]]

Public Law 105-282
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to convey the administrative 
 site for the Rogue River National Forest and use the proceeds for the 
  construction or improvement of offices and support buildings for the 
           Rogue River National Forest and the Bureau of Land 
           Management. <<NOTE: Oct. 26, 1998 -  [H.R. 3796]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
Agriculture.

SEC. 2. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SITE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, under such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary may prescribe, may sell or exchange any or all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the Rogue River 
National Forest administrative site depicted on the map entitled ``Rogue 
River Administrative Conveyance'' dated April 23, 1998, consisting of 
approximately 5.1 acres.
    (b) Exchange Acquisitions.--The Secretary may accept for the 
construction of administrative facilities in exchange for a conveyance 
of the administrative site under subsection (a).
    (c) Applicable Authorities.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
Act, any sale or exchange of an administrative site shall be subject to 
the laws (including regulations) applicable to the conveyance and 
acquisition of land for National Forest System purposes.
    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept a cash equalization payment in excess of 25 
percent of the value of an administrative site in an exchange under 
subsection (a).
    (e) Solicitations of Offers.--In carrying out this Act, the 
Secretary may--
            (1) use solicitations of offers for sale or exchange on such 
        terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe; and
            (2) reject any offer if the Secretary determines that the 
        offer is not adequate or not in the public interest.

SEC. 3. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

    The proceeds of a sale or exchange under section 2 shall be 
deposited in the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 
484a) (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') and shall be available, until 
expended, for the construction or improvement of offices and support 
buildings for combined use by the Forest Service

[[Page 112 STAT. 2699]]

for the Rogue River National Forest, and by the Bureau of Land 
Management.

SEC. 4. REVOCATIONS.

    (a) Public Land Orders.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
to facilitate the sale or exchange of the administrative site, public 
land orders withdrawing the administrative site from all forms of 
appropriation under the public land laws are revoked for any portion of 
the administrative site, upon conveyance of that portion by the 
Secretary.
    (b) Effective Date.--The effective date of a revocation made by this 
section shall be the date of the patent or deed conveying the 
administrative site (or portion thereof ).

    Approved October 26, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3796 (S. 2513):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-561 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: Nos. 105-293 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources) and 
105-391 accompanying S. 2513 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            June 16, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 2, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 10, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>