[105th Congress Public Law 207]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ207.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 869]]

Public Law 105-207
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 1998 and 1999 for the 
 National Science Foundation, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 29, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 1273]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of 1998. 42 USC 1861 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862k note.>> 1998''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation established under section 2 of 
        the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (2) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the National 
        Science Foundation established under section 2 of the National 
        Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (3) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the National Science 
        Board established under section 2 of the National Science 
        Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (4) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other 
        territory or possession of the United States.
            (5) National research facility.--The term ``national 
        research facility'' means a research facility funded by the 
        Foundation which is available, subject to appropriate policies 
        allocating access, for use by all scientists and engineers 
        affiliated with research institutions located in the United 
        States.

           TITLE I--NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862k.>> FINDINGS; CORE STRATEGIES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The United States depends upon its scientific and 
        technological capabilities to preserve the military and economic 
        security of the United States.
            (2) America's leadership in the global marketplace is 
        dependent upon a strong commitment to education, basic research, 
        and development.

[[Page 112 STAT. 870]]

            (3) A nation that is not technologically literate cannot 
        compete in the emerging global economy.
            (4) A coordinated commitment to mathematics and science 
        instruction at all levels of education is a necessary component 
        of successful efforts to produce technologically literate 
        citizens.
            (5) Professional development is a necessary component of 
        efforts to produce system-wide improvements in mathematics, 
        engineering, and science education in secondary, elementary, and 
        postsecondary settings.
            (6)(A) The mission of the National Science Foundation is to 
        provide Federal support for basic scientific and engineering 
        research, and to be a primary contributor to mathematics, 
        science, and engineering education at academic institutions in 
        the United States.
            (B) In accordance with such mission, the long-term goals of 
        the National Science Foundation include providing leadership 
        to--
                    (i) enable the United States to maintain a position 
                of world leadership in all aspects of science, 
                mathematics, engineering, and technology;
                    (ii) promote the discovery, integration, 
                dissemination, and application of new knowledge in 
                service to society; and
                    (iii) achieve excellence in United States science, 
                mathematics, engineering, and technology education at 
                all levels.

    (b) Core Strategies.--In carrying out activities designed to achieve 
the goals described in subsection (a), the Foundation shall use the 
following core strategies:
            (1) Develop intellectual capital, both people and ideas, 
        with particular emphasis on groups and regions that 
        traditionally have not participated fully in science, 
        mathematics, and engineering.
            (2) Strengthen the scientific infrastructure by investing in 
        facilities planning and modernization, instrument acquisition, 
        instrument design and development, and shared-use research 
        platforms.
            (3) Integrate research and education through activities that 
        emphasize and strengthen the natural connections between 
        learning and inquiry.
            (4) Promote partnerships with industry, elementary and 
        secondary schools, community colleges, colleges and 
        universities, other agencies, State and local governments, and 
        other institutions involved in science, mathematics, and 
        engineering to enhance the delivery of math and science 
        education and improve the technological literacy of the citizens 
        of the United States.

SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 1998.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $3,505,630,000 for fiscal year 1998.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $2,576,200,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Research and Related Activities, of which--
                          (i) $370,820,000 shall be made available for 
                      Biological Sciences;

[[Page 112 STAT. 871]]

                          (ii) $289,170,000 shall be made available for 
                      Computer and Information Science and Engineering;
                          (iii) $360,470,000 shall be made available for 
                      Engineering;
                          (iv) $455,110,000 shall be made available for 
                      Geosciences;
                          (v) $715,710,000 shall be made available for 
                      Mathematical and Physical Sciences;
                          (vi) $130,660,000 shall be made available for 
                      Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences, of 
                      which up to $1,000,000 may be made available for 
                      the United States-Mexico Foundation for Science;
                          (vii) $165,930,000 shall be made available for 
                      United States Polar Research Programs;
                          (viii) $62,600,000 shall be made available for 
                      United States Antarctic Logistical Support 
                      Activities;
                          (ix) $2,730,000 shall be made available for 
                      the Critical Technologies Institute; and
                          (x) $23,000,000 shall be made available for 
                      the Next Generation Internet program;
                    (B) $632,500,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Education and Human Resources Activities;
                    (C) $155,130,000 shall be made available for Major 
                Research Equipment;
                    (D) $136,950,000 shall be made available for 
                Salaries and Expenses; and
                    (E) $4,850,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

    (b) Fiscal Year 1999.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $3,773,000,000 for fiscal year 1999.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $2,846,800,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Research and Related Activities, of which--
                          (i) $417,820,000 shall be made available for 
                      Biological Sciences;
                          (ii) $331,140,000 shall be made available for 
                      Computer and Information Science and Engineering, 
                      including $25,000,000 for the Next Generation 
                      Internet program;
                          (iii) $400,550,000 shall be made available for 
                      Engineering;
                          (iv) $507,310,000 shall be made available for 
                      Geosciences;
                          (v) $792,030,000 shall be made available for 
                      Mathematical and Physical Sciences;
                          (vi) $150,260,000 shall be made available for 
                      Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences, of 
                      which up to $2,000,000 may be made available for 
                      the United States-Mexico Foundation for Science;
                          (vii) $182,360,000 shall be made available for 
                      United States Polar Research Programs;
                          (viii) $62,600,000 shall be made available for 
                      United States Antarctic Logistical Support 
                      Activities;
                          (ix) $2,730,000 shall be made available for 
                      the Critical Technologies Institute; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 872]]

                    (B) $683,000,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Education and Human Resources Activities;
                    (C) $94,000,000 shall be made available for Major 
                Research Equipment;
                    (D) $144,000,000 shall be made available for 
                Salaries and Expenses; and
                    (E) $5,200,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

    (c) Fiscal Year 2000.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $3,886,190,000 for fiscal year 2000.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $2,935,024,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Research and Related Activities, of which up to--
                          (i) $2,000,000 may be made available for the 
                      United States-Mexico Foundation for Science; and
                          (ii) $25,000,000 may be made available for the 
                      Next Generation Internet program;
                    (B) $703,490,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out Education and Human Resources Activities;
                    (C) $94,000,000 shall be made available for Major 
                Research Equipment;
                    (D) $148,320,000 shall be made available for 
                Salaries and Expenses; and
                    (E) $5,356,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

SEC. 103. PROPORTIONAL REDUCTION OF RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES 
            AMOUNTS.

    If the amount appropriated pursuant to section 102(a)(2)(A) or 
(b)(2)(A) is less than the amount authorized under that paragraph, the 
amount available for each scientific directorate under that paragraph 
shall be reduced by the same proportion.

SEC. 104. CONSULTATION AND REPRESENTATION EXPENSES.

    From appropriations made under authorizations provided in this Act, 
not more than $10,000 may be used in each fiscal year for official 
consultation, representation, or other extraordinary expenses. The 
Director shall have the discretion to determine the expenses (as 
described in this section) for which the funds described in this section 
shall be used. Such a determination by the Director shall be final and 
binding on the accounting officers of the Federal Government.

SEC. 105. UNITED STATES MAN AND THE BIOSPHERE PROGRAM LIMITATION.

    No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act shall be used for the 
United States Man and the Biosphere Program, or related projects.

                      TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 201. NATIONAL RESEARCH <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862l.>> FACILITIES.

    (a) Facilities Plan.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than December 
        1, of each year, the Director shall, as part of the annual 
        budget request, prepare

[[Page 112 STAT. 873]]

        and submit to Congress a plan for the proposed construction of, 
        and repair and upgrades to, national research facilities.
            (2) Contents of the plan.--The plan shall include--
                    (A) estimates of the costs for the construction, 
                repairs, and upgrades described in paragraph (1);
                    (B) estimates of the costs for the operation and 
                maintenance of existing and proposed new facilities; and
                    (C) in the case of proposed new construction and for 
                major upgrades to existing facilities, funding profiles, 
                by fiscal year, and milestones for major phases of the 
                construction.
            (3) Special rule.--The plan shall include cost estimates in 
        the categories of construction, repair, and upgrades--
                    (A) for the year in which the plan is submitted to 
                Congress; and
                    (B) for not fewer than the succeeding 4 years.

    (b) Status of <<NOTE: Reports.>> Facilities Under Construction.--The 
plan required under subsection (a) shall include a status report for 
each uncompleted construction project included in current and previous 
plans. The status report shall include data on cumulative construction 
costs by project compared with estimated costs, and shall compare the 
current and original schedules for achievement of milestones for the 
major phases of the construction.

SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENTS.

    (a) National Science Foundation Act of 1950 Amendments.--The 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 4(g) (42 U.S.C. 1863(g))--
                    (A) by striking ``the appropriate rate provided for 
                individuals in grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under 
                section 5332'' and inserting ``the maximum rate payable 
                under section 5376''; and
                    (B) by redesignating the second subsection (k) as 
                subsection (l);
            (2) in section 5(e) (42 U.S.C. 1864(e)) by striking 
        paragraph (2), and inserting the following:

    ``(2) Any delegation of <<NOTE: Federal 
Register, publication. Reports.>> authority or imposition of conditions 
under paragraph (1) shall be promptly published in the Federal Register 
and reported to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources, and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, of the Senate and 
the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives.'';
            (3) in section 14(c) (42 U.S.C. 1873(c))--
                    (A) by striking ``shall receive'' and inserting 
                ``shall be entitled to receive'';
                    (B) by striking ``the rate specified for the daily 
                rate for GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 
                5332'' and inserting ``the maximum rate payable under 
                section 5376''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following: ``For the 
                purposes of determining the payment of compensation 
                under this subsection, the time spent in travel by any 
                member of the Board or any member of a special 
                commission shall

[[Page 112 STAT. 874]]

                be deemed as time engaged in the business of the 
                Foundation. Members of the Board and members of special 
                commissions may waive compensation and reimbursement for 
                traveling expenses.''; and
            (4) in section 15(a) (42 U.S.C. 1874(a)), by striking 
        ``Atomic Energy Commission'' and inserting ``Secretary of 
        Energy''.

    (b) National Science Foundation Authorization Act, 1976 
Amendments.--Section 6(a) of the National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act, 1976 (42 U.S.C. 1881a(a)) is amended by striking 
``social,'' the first place it appears.
    (c) National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 
Amendments.--Section 117(a) of the National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1881b(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1)(B)(v) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(v) from schools established outside the several States 
        and the District of Columbia by any agency of the Federal 
        Government for dependents of the employees of such agency.''; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A) by striking ``Science and 
        Engineering Education'' and inserting ``Education and Human 
        Resources''.

    (d) Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act Amendments.--The 
Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885 et seq.) 
is amended--
            (1) in section 34 (42 U.S.C. 1885b)--
                    (A) by striking the section heading and inserting 
                the following:

``Participation in Science and Engineering of Minorities and Persons 
                        with Disabilities'';

                and
                    (B) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(b) The Foundation is authorized to undertake or support programs 
and activities to encourage the participation of persons with 
disabilities in the science and engineering professions.''; and
            (2) in section 36 (42 U.S.C. 1885c)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``minorities,'' 
                and all that follows through ``in scientific'' and 
                inserting ``minorities, and persons with disabilities in 
                scientific'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``with the concurrence of the 
                      National Science Board''; and
                          (ii) by striking the second sentence and 
                      inserting the following: ``In addition, the 
                      Chairman of the National Science Board may 
                      designate a member of the Board as a member of the 
                      Committee.'';
                    (C) by striking subsections (c) and (d);
                    (D) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:

    ``(c) The Committee shall be responsible for reviewing and 
evaluating all Foundation matters relating to opportunities for the 
participation in, and the advancement of, women, minorities, and persons 
with disabilities in education, training, and science and engineering 
research programs.'';

[[Page 112 STAT. 875]]

                    (E) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f ) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
                    (F) in subsection (d), as so redesignated by 
                subparagraph (E), by striking ``additional''.

    (e) Technical Amendment.--The second subsection (g) of 
section 3 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 <<NOTE: 42 USC 
1862.>> is repealed.

SEC. 203. INDIRECT <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862k note.>> COSTS.

    (a) Matching Funds.--Matching funds required pursuant to section 
204(a)(2)(C) of the Academic Research Facilities Modernization Act of 
1988 (42 U.S.C. 1862c(a)(2)(C)) shall not be considered facilities costs 
for purposes of determining indirect cost rates under Office of 
Management and Budget Circular A-21.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
        Technology Policy, in consultation with other Federal 
        agencies the Director deems appropriate, shall prepare a 
        report--
                    (A) analyzing the Federal indirect cost 
                reimbursement rates (as the term is defined in Office of 
                Management and Budget Circular A-21) paid to 
                universities in comparison with Federal indirect cost 
                reimbursement rates paid to other entities, such as 
                industry, government laboratories, research hospitals, 
                and nonprofit institutions;
                    (B)(i) analyzing the distribution of the Federal 
                indirect cost reimbursement rates by category (such as 
                administration, facilities, utilities, and libraries), 
                and by the type of entity; and
                    (ii) determining what factors, including the type of 
                research, influence the distribution;
                    (C) analyzing the impact, if any, that changes in 
                Office of Management and Budget Circular A-21 have had 
                on--
                          (i) the Federal indirect cost reimbursement 
                      rates, the rate of change of the Federal indirect 
                      cost reimbursement rates, the distribution by 
                      category of the Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement rates, and the distribution by type 
                      of entity of the Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement rates; and
                          (ii) the Federal indirect cost reimbursement 
                      (as calculated in accordance with Office of 
                      Management and Budget Circular A-21), the rate of 
                      change of the Federal indirect cost reimbursement, 
                      the distribution by category of the Federal 
                      indirect cost reimbursement, and the distribution 
                      by type of entity of the Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement;
                    (D) analyzing the impact, if any, of Federal and 
                State law on the Federal indirect cost reimbursement 
                rates;
                    (E)(i) analyzing options to reduce or control the 
                rate of growth of the Federal indirect cost 
                reimbursement rates, including options such as 
                benchmarking of facilities and equipment cost, 
                elimination of cost studies, mandated percentage 
                reductions in the Federal indirect cost reimbursement; 
                and
                    (ii) assessing the benefits and burdens of the 
                options to the Federal Government, research 
                institutions, and researchers; and
                    (F) analyzing options for creating a database--

[[Page 112 STAT. 876]]

                          (i) for tracking the Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement rates and the Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement; and
                          (ii) for analyzing the impact that changes in 
                      policies with respect to Federal indirect cost 
                      reimbursement will have on the Federal Government, 
                      researchers, and research institutions.
            (2) Report <<NOTE: Deadline.>> to congress.--The report 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to Congress not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 204. FINANCIAL <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862m note.>> DISCLOSURE.

    Persons temporarily employed by or at the Foundation shall be 
subject to the same financial disclosure requirements and related 
sanctions under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) as 
are permanent employees of the Foundation in equivalent positions.

SEC. 205. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862k note.>> NOTICE.

    (a) Notice of Reprogramming.--If any funds appropriated pursuant to 
the amendments made by this Act are subject to a reprogramming action 
that requires notice to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives, notice of that action 
shall concurrently be provided to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Labor and Human 
Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Science of the House of 
Representatives.
    (b) Notice of <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Reorganization.--Not later than 15 
days before any major reorganization of any program, project, or 
activity of the National Science Foundation, the Director of the 
National Science Foundation shall provide notice to the Committees on 
Science and Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committees on Commerce, Science and Transportation, Labor and Human 
Resources of the Senate, and Appropriations of the Senate.

SEC. 206. ENHANCEMENT OF SCIENCE <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862k note.>> AND 
            MATHEMATICS PROGRAMS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Educationally useful federal equipment.--The term 
        ``educationally useful Federal equipment'' means computers and 
        related peripheral tools and research equipment that is 
        appropriate for use in schools.
            (2) School.--The term ``school'' means a public or private 
        educational institution that serves any of the grades of 
        kindergarten through grade 12.

    (b) Sense of the Congress.--
            (1) In general.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
        Director should, to the greatest extent practicable and in a 
        manner consistent with applicable Federal law (including 
        Executive Order No. 12999), donate educationally useful Federal 
        equipment to schools in order to enhance the science and 
        mathematics programs of those schools.
            (2) Reports.--
                    (A) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than 
                1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
                annually thereafter, the Director shall prepare and 
                submit to the President a report that meets the 
                requirements of this paragraph. <<NOTE: President.>>  
                The 


[[Page 112 STAT. 877]]

                President shall submit that report to Congress at the 
                same time as the President submits a budget request to 
                Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Contents of report.--The report prepared by the 
                Director under this paragraph shall describe any 
                donations of educationally useful Federal equipment to 
                schools made during the period covered by the report.

SEC. 207. REPORT ON RESERVIST EDUCATION ISSUES.

    (a) Convening Appropriate Representatives.--The Director of the 
National Science Foundation, with the assistance of the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy, shall convene appropriate officials of 
the Federal Government and appropriate representatives of the 
postsecondary education community and of members of reserve components 
of the Armed Forces for the purpose of discussing and seeking a 
consensus on the appropriate resolution to problems relating to the 
academic standing and financial responsibilities of postsecondary 
students called or ordered to active duty in the Armed Forces.
    (b) Report to <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Congress.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
National Science Foundation shall transmit to the Congress a report 
summarizing the results of the convening individuals under 
subsection (a), including any consensus recommendations resulting 
therefrom as well as any significant opinions expressed by each 
participant that are not incorporated in such a consensus 
recommendation.

SEC. 208. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY INSTITUTE.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 822 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (42 U.S.C. 6686) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Critical Technologies Institute'' in the 
        section heading and ``Critical Technologies Institute'' in 
        subsection (a), and inserting ``Science and Technology Policy 
        Institute'' and ``Science and Technology Policy Institute'', 
        respectively;
            (2) in subsection (b) by striking ``As determined by the 
        chairman of the committee referred to in subsection (c), the'' 
        and inserting ``The'';
            (3) by striking subsection (c), and redesignating 
        subsections (d), (e), (f ), and (g) as subsections (c), (d), 
        (e), and (f ), respectively;
            (4) in subsection (c), as so redesignated by paragraph (3) 
        of this subsection--
                    (A) by inserting ``science and'' after 
                ``developments and trends in'' in paragraph (1);
                    (B) by striking ``with particular emphasis on'' in 
                paragraph (1) and inserting ``including '';
                    (C) by inserting ``and developing and maintaining 
                relevant informational and analytical tools'' before the 
                period at the end of paragraph (1);
                    (D) by striking ``to determine'' and all that 
                follows through ``technology policies'' in paragraph (2) 
                and inserting ``with particular attention to the scope 
                and content of the Federal science and technology 
                research and development portfolio as it affects 
                interagency and national issues'';
                    (E) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:

[[Page 112 STAT. 878]]

            ``(3) Initiation of studies and analysis of alternatives 
        available for ensuring the long-term strength of the United 
        States in the development and application of science and 
        technology, including appropriate roles for the Federal 
        Government, State governments, private industry, and 
        institutions of higher 
        education in the development and application of science and 
        technology.'';
                    (F) by inserting ``science and'' after ``Executive 
                branch on'' in paragraph (4)(A); and
                    (G) by amending paragraph (4)(B) to read as follows:
                    ``(B) to the interagency committees and panels of 
                the Federal Government concerned with science and 
                technology.'';
            (5) by striking ``subsection (d)'' in subsection (d), as 
        redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection, and inserting 
        ``subsection (c)'';
            (6) by striking ``Committee'' in each place it appears in 
        subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this 
        subsection, and inserting ``Institute'';
            (7) by striking ``subsection (d)'' in subsection (f ), as 
        redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection, and inserting 
        ``subsection (c)''; and
            (8) by striking ``Chairman of Committee'' each place it 
        appears in subsection (f ), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of 
        this subsection, and inserting ``Director of Office of Science 
        and Technology Policy''.

    (b) Conforming <<NOTE: 42 USC 6686 note.>> Usage.--All references in 
Federal law or regulations to the Critical Technologies Institute shall 
be considered to be references to the Science and Technology Policy 
Institute.

SEC. 209. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON THE YEAR 2000 PROBLEM.

    With the year 2000 fast approaching, it is the sense of the Congress 
that the Foundation should--
            (1) give high priority to correcting all 2-digit date-
        related problems in its computer systems to ensure that those 
        systems continue to operate effectively in the year 2000 and 
        beyond;
            (2) assess immediately the extent of the risk to the 
        operations of the Foundation posed by the problems referred to 
        in paragraph (1), and plan and budget for achieving Year 2000 
        compliance for all of its mission-critical systems; and
            (3) develop contingency plans for those systems that the 
        Foundation is unable to correct in time.

    Approved July 29, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1273 (S. 1046):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-63 (Comm. on Science).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-110 accompanying S. 1046 (Comm. on Labor and 
Human Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 143 (1997):
                                    Apr. 24, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 144 (1998):
                                    May 12, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    July 14, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            July 29, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>