[105th Congress Private Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl6.105]

Private Law 105-6
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Larry Errol Pieterse. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                 379]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. WAIVER OF GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL OF, OR DENIAL OF ADMISSION TO, 
            LARRY ERROL PIETERSE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 212(a)(2)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, and notwithstanding paragraphs (1)(A) 
and (2)(B) of section 241(a) of such Act (before redesignation as 
section 237(a) of such Act by section 305(a) of the Illegal Immigration 
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996), Larry Errol Pieterse 
may not be removed or deported from the United States or denied 
admission to the United States by reason of any offense for which he 
received a full pardon from the Governor of Florida prior to January 1, 
1992.
    (b) Rescission of Outstanding Order of Removal or Deportation.--The 
Attorney General shall rescind any outstanding order of removal or 
deportation, or any finding of deportability or removability, that has 
been entered against Larry Errol Pieterse by reason of any offense for 
which he received a full pardon from the Governor of Florida prior to 
January 1, 1992.
    (c) Permanent Residence Status.--Notwithstanding any order 
terminating the status of Larry Errol Pieterse as an alien lawfully 
admitted for permanent residence, for purposes of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act he shall be considered lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence as of November 3, 1981, and such status shall be considered 
not to have changed between such date and the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Establishment of Good Moral Character.--Notwithstanding section 
101(f ) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, any offense for which 
Larry Errol Pieterse received a full pardon from the Governor of Florida 
prior to January 1, 1992, may not be considered in determining whether 
he is, or during any period has been, a person of good moral character 
for purposes of such Act.

    Approved November 10, 1998.