[105th Congress Public Law 51]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ51.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 1170]]

Public Law 105-51
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
   Congress to Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew in recognition of his 
                            outstanding and 
enduring contributions toward religious understanding and peace, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 6, 1997 -  [H.R. 2248]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew--
                    (A) is the spiritual leader of nearly 300 million 
                Orthodox Christians around the world and millions of 
                Orthodox Christians in America; and
                    (B) is recognized in the United States and abroad as 
                a leader in the quest for world peace, respect for the 
                Earth's environment, and greater religious 
                understanding;

            (2) the extraordinary efforts of Ecumenical Patriarch 
        Bartholomew continue to bring people of all faiths closer 
        together in America and around the world;

            (3) the courageous leadership of Ecumenical Patriarch 
        Bartholomew for peace in the Balkans, Eastern Europe, the Middle 
        East, the Eastern Mediterranean, and elsewhere inspires and 
        encourages people of all faiths toward his dream of world peace 
        in the new millennium; and

            (4) the outstanding accomplishments of Ecumenical Patriarch 
        Bartholomew have been formally recognized and honored by 
        numerous governmental, academic, and other institutions around 
        the world.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of the Congress, a gold medal of appropriate design 
to Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew in recognition of his outstanding 
and enduring contributions to religious understanding and peace.

    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal 
with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by 
the Secretary.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations

[[Page 111 STAT. 1171]]

as the Secretary may prescribe, and at a price sufficient to cover the 
costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for 
purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; 
            PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be charged against the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund an amount not 
to exceed $30,000 to pay for the cost of the medal authorized by this 
Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sales of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the Numismatic 
Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved October 6, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2248:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Sept. 17, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 24, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>