[105th Congress Public Law 61]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ61.105]


[[Page 1271]]

        TREASURY AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 1998

[[Page 111 STAT. 1272]]

Public Law 105-61
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  <<NOTE: Oct. 10, 1997 -  [H.R. 2378]>> Making appropriations for the 
             Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
 Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Treasury and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 1998.>>  That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, and for 
other purposes, namely:

   <<NOTE:  Treasury Department Appropriations Act, 1998.>> TITLE I--
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$150,000 for official reception and representation expenses; not to 
exceed $258,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to 
be allocated and expended under the direction of the Secretary of the 
Treasury and to be accounted for solely on his certificate; 
$114,771,000: Provided, That section 113(2) of the Fiscal Year 1997 
Department of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-
22) <<NOTE: 18 USC 841 note.>>  is amended by striking ``12 months'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``2 years'': Provided further, That the Office 
of Foreign Assets Control shall be funded at no less than $4,500,000: 
Provided further, That chapter 9 of the fiscal year 1997 Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Recovery from Natural Disasters, and for Overseas 
Peacekeeping Efforts, including those in Bosnia, Public Law 105-18 (111 
Stat. 195-96) is amended by inserting after the ``County of Denver'' in 
each instance ``the County of Arapahoe'': Provided further, That 
$200,000 are provided to conduct a comprehensive study of gambling's 
effects on bankruptcies in the United States: Provided further, That for 
necessary expenses of the Office of Enforcement, including, but not 
limited to, making transfers of funds to Treasury bureaus and offices 
for programs, projects or initiatives directed as the investigation or 
prosecution of violent crime, $1,600,000, to remain

[[Page 111 STAT. 1273]]

available until expended, to be derived from balances available in the 
Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.

                  Office of Professional Responsibility

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Professional Responsibility, 
including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $1,250,000: 
Provided, That the Under Secretary of Treasury for Enforcement shall 
task the Office of Professional Responsibility to conduct a 
comprehensive review of integrity issues and other matters related to 
the potential vulnerability of the United States Customs Service to 
corruption, to include examination of charges of professional misconduct 
and corruption as well as analysis of the efficacy of departmental and 
bureau internal affairs systems.

                         Automation Enhancement

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the Treasury, 
$25,889,000, of which $11,000,000 shall be available to the United 
States Customs Service for the Automated Commercial Environment project, 
of which $6,100,000 shall be available to Departmental Offices for the 
International Trade Data System, and of which $8,789,000 shall be 
available to Departmental Offices to modernize its information 
technology infrastructure and for business solution software: Provided, 
That these funds shall remain available until September 30, 1999: 
Provided further, That these funds shall be transferred to accounts and 
in amounts as necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Department's 
offices, bureaus, and other organizations: Provided further, That this 
transfer authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated shall be used to support or supplement Internal Revenue 
Service appropriations for Information Systems: Provided further, That 
of the $27,000,000 provided under this heading in Public Law 104-208, 
$12,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1999: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That none of the funds appropriated for the 
International Trade Data System may be obligated until the Department 
has submitted a report on its system development plan to the Committees 
on Appropriations: Provided further, That the funds appropriated for the 
Automated Commercial Environment project may not be obligated until the 
Commissioner of Customs has submitted a systems architecture plan and a 
milestone schedule for the development and implementation of all 
projects included in the systems architecture plan, and the plan and 
schedule have been reviewed by the General Accounting Office and 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1274]]

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses; 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury; 
$29,719,000, of which $26,034 shall be transferred to the ``Departmental 
Offices'' appropriation for the reimbursement of Secret Service 
personnel in accordance with section 115 of this Act.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury Building 
and Annex, $10,484,000, to remain available until September 30, 1999.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement; $22,835,000: Provided, That 
funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure personal 
services contracts.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, as follows:
    (1) As authorized by section 190001(e), $131,000,000; of which 
$19,421,000 shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including $3,000,000 for administering the Gang Resistance 
Education and Training program, $3,974,000 for the canine explosives 
detection program, $5,200,000 for CEASEFIRE/IBIS, $5,639,000 for 
vehicles and communications systems, and $1,608,000 for collection of 
information on arson and explosives; of which $1,000,000 shall be 
available to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for the Secure 
Outreach/Encrypted Transmission Program; of which $15,731,000 shall be 
available to the United States Secret Service, including $6,700,000 for 
vehicle replacement, $1,460,000 to provide technical assistance and to 
assess the effectiveness of new technology intended to combat identity-
based crimes, $5,000,000 for investigations of counterfeiting, and 
$2,571,000 for forensic and related support of investigations

[[Page 111 STAT. 1275]]

of missing and exploited children, of which $571,000 shall be available 
as a grant for activities related to the investigations of exploited 
children and shall remain available until expended; of which $60,648,000 
shall be available for the United States Customs 
Service, including $15,000,000 for high energy container x-ray systems 
and automated targeting systems, $5,735,000 for laboratory 
modernization, $7,400,000 for vehicle replacement, $8,413,000 for anti-
smuggling inspectors, $9,500,000 for the passenger processing 
initiative, $4,000,000 for redeploying agents and inspectors to high 
threat drug zones, $4,500,000 for Forward-Looking Infrared capabilities, 
$1,100,000 for construction of canopies for inspection of outbound 
vehicles along the Southwest border, and $5,000,000 to acquire vehicle 
and container inspection systems; of which $20,200,000 shall be 
available to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, including 
$13,000,000 to the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center for a 
program to transfer technology to State and local law enforcement 
agencies, $6,000,000 for a Federal Drug Free-Prison Zone demonstration 
project, and $1,200,000 for Model State Drug Law Conferences; and of 
which $3,000,000 is provided to Federal Drug Control Programs for the 
Rocky Mountain HIDTA;
    (2) As authorized by section 32401, $10,000,000 to the Bureau of 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for disbursement through grants, 
cooperative agreements, or contracts to local governments for Gang 
Resistance Education and Training: Provided, That notwithstanding 
sections 32401 and 310001, such funds shall be allocated to State and 
local law enforcement and prevention organizations;
    (3) As authorized by section 180103, $1,000,000 to the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center for specialized training for rural law 
enforcement officers.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, 
including materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic 
training; purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, without regard 
to the general purchase price limitation) and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related activities; 
uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year; the conducting of and participating in firearms 
matches and presentation of awards; for public awareness and enhancing 
community support of law enforcement training; not to exceed $9,500 for 
official reception and 
representation expenses; room and board for student interns; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $64,663,000, of which up to 
$13,034,000 for materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement 
basic training shall remain available until September 30, 2000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 3771 note.>>  That the Center is authorized to 
accept and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept 
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of 
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director of the 
Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a basic training 
program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, which shall be 
funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift authority: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
students attending training at any Federal Law

[[Page 111 STAT. 1276]]

Enforcement Training Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-
provided housing, insofar as available and in accordance with Center 
policy: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this account shall 
be available, at the discretion of the Director, for: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation, except that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary 
for law enforcement training activities in foreign countries undertaken 
pursuant to section 801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty 
Act of 1996, Public Law 104-32; training of private sector security 
officials on a 
space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend 
course development meetings and training at the Center: Provided 
further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation 
of reimbursements from agencies receiving training at the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, except that total obligations at the end of 
the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources available at 
the end of the fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short-term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$32,548,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the detection and investigation of 
individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including 
cooperative efforts with State and local law enforcement, $73,794,000, 
of which $7,827,000 shall remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$202,490,000, of which not to exceed $13,235,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2000 for information systems modernization 
initiatives: Provided, <<NOTE: 12 USC 391a.>>  That beginning in fiscal 
year 1998 and thereafter, there are appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to reimburse Federal Reserve Banks in their capacity as 
depositaries and fiscal agents for the United States for all services 
required or directed by the Secretary of the Treasury to be performed by 
such banks on behalf of the Treasury or other Federal agencies.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1277]]

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 650 vehicles for police-
type use for replacement only and hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire 
of aircraft; services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be 
determined by the Director; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where an assignment to the National Response 
Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson incident requires an 
employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to remain overnight at his 
or her post of duty; not to exceed $12,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; for training of State and local law enforcement 
agencies with or without reimbursement, including training in connection 
with the training and acquisition of canines for explosives and fire 
accelerants detection; and provision of laboratory assistance to State 
and local agencies, with or without reimbursement; $478,934,000, of 
which $1,250,000 may be used for the Youth Crime Gun Interdiction 
Initiative; of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of 
which $1,000,000 shall be available for the equipping of any vessel, 
vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for official use by a State or 
local law enforcement agency if the conveyance will be used in drug-
related joint law enforcement operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms and for the payment of overtime salaries, travel, 
fuel, training, equipment, and other similar costs of State and local 
law enforcement officers that are incurred in joint operations with the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided, That no funds made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to transfer the 
functions, missions, or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms to other agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1998: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection 
with consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the 
Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and 
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay 
administrative expenses or the 
compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to 
implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the 
definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item 
from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on January 1, 1994: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be available 
to investigate or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds 
shall be available to investigate and act upon applications filed by 
corporations for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That no funds in this Act may be used 
to provide ballistics imaging equipment to any State or local authority 
who has obtained similar equipment through a Federal grant or subsidy 
unless the State or local authority agrees to return that equipment or 
to repay that grant or subsidy to the Federal Government: Provided 
further, That no funds under this Act may be used to

[[Page 111 STAT. 1278]]

electronically retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
923(g)(4) by name or any personal identification code.

                          laboratory facilities

    For necessary expenses for construction of a new facility or 
facilities to house the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms National 
Laboratory Center and the Fire Investigation Research and Development 
Center, not to exceed 185,000 occupiable square feet, $55,022,000 to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That these funds shall not be 
available until a prospectus for the Laboratory Facilities is reviewed 
and resolutions of authorization are approved by the House Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Senate Committee on 
Environment and Public Works.

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,050 motor vehicles of which 985 
are for replacement only and of which 1,030 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $30,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service; $1,522,165,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to 
section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 
1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that 
Account; of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for 
payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations, and 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research, 
not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081, and up to 
$6,000,000 shall be available until expended for the procurement of 
automation infrastructure items, including hardware, software, and 
installation: Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to 
the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: 
Provided further, That $1,250,000 shall be available to fund the Global 
Trade and Research Program at the Montana World Trade Center: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fiscal 
year aggregate overtime limitation prescribed in subsection 5(c)(1) of 
the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall be $30,000.

  operations, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction programs, the 
operations of which include: the interdiction of narcotics and other 
goods; the provision of support to Customs

[[Page 111 STAT. 1279]]

and other Federal, State, and local agencies in the enforcement or 
administration of laws enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance 
to Federal, State, and local agencies in other law enforcement and 
emergency humanitarian efforts; $92,758,000, which shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related 
equipment, with the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and has 
been identified as excess to Customs requirements and aircraft which has 
been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other Federal 
agency, department, or office outside of the Department of the Treasury, 
during fiscal year 1998 without the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                   customs services at small airports

                   (to be derived from fees collected)

<<NOTE: 19 USC 58b-1.>>     Beginning in fiscal year 1998 and 
thereafter, such sums as may be necessary for expenses for the provision 
of Customs services at certain small airports or other facilities when 
authorized by law and designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
including expenditures for the salary and expenses of individuals 
employed to provide such services, to be derived from fees collected by 
the Secretary pursuant to section 236 of Public Law 98-573 for each of 
these airports or other facilities when authorized by law and designated 
by the Secretary, and to remain available until expended.

                    harbor maintenance fee collection

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

                      administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $173,826,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which $2,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2000 for 
information systems modernization initiatives: Provided, That the sum 
appropriated herein from the General Fund for fiscal year 1998 shall be 
reduced by not more than $4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees 
and Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 1998 appropriation from the General 
Fund estimated at $169,426,000, and in addition, $20,000, to be derived 
from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for 
administrative and personnel expenses for financial management of the 
Fund, as authorized by section 102 of Public Law 101-380: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provisions of law, effective 
upon enactment, the Bureau of the Public Debt shall be fully and 
directly reimbursed by the funds described in Public Law

[[Page 111 STAT. 1280]]

101-136, title I, section 104, 103 Stat. 789 for costs and services 
performed by the Bureau in the administration of such funds.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; including processing tax returns; revenue 
accounting; providing tax law and account assistance to taxpayers by 
telephone and correspondence; matching information returns and tax 
returns; management services; rent and utilities; and inspection; 
including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for police-
type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner; $2,925,874,000, of which up to 
$3,700,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, and 
of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                           tax law enforcement

                         (including rescission)

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; tax and enforcement 
litigation; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; investigation and enforcement activities; securing 
unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; statistics of income 
and compliance research; the purchase (for police-type use, not to 
exceed 850), and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $3,142,822,000: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 104-208, $26,000,000 
is rescinded and in Public Law 104-52, $6,000,000 is rescinded.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $138,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997.

                           information systems

    For necessary expenses for data processing and telecommunications 
support for Internal Revenue Service activities, including developmental 
information systems and operational information systems; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $1,272,487,000, which shall be available until September 
30, 1999: Provided, That under the heading ``Information Systems'' in 
Public Law 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009), the following is deleted: ``of 
which no less than $130,075,000 shall be available for Tax Systems 
Modernization (TSM) development and deployment'': Provided further, That 
the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1281]]

Internal Revenue Service shall submit a reprogramming request, of which 
no less than $87,000,000 shall be available for Year 2000 conversion: 
Provided further, That none of the funds under this heading, or funds 
made available under this heading in any previous Acts, may be obligated 
to award or otherwise initiate a Prime contract to implement the 
Internal Revenue Service's Modernization Blueprint submitted to Congress 
on May 15, 1997, although funds may be used to develop a Request for 
Proposals for the Prime contract.

                   information technology investments

    For necessary expenses for the capital asset acquisition of 
information technology systems, including management and related 
contractual costs of said acquisition, including contractual costs 
associated with operations as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $325,000,000, 
which shall remain available until September 30, 2000: Provided, That 
none of these funds is available for obligation until September 1, 1998: 
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be obligated until the 
Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Treasury submits to 
Congress for approval, a plan for expenditure that: (1) implements the 
Internal Revenue Service's Modernization Blueprint submitted to Congress 
on May 15, 1997; (2) meets the information systems investment guidelines 
established by the Office of Management and Budget in the fiscal year 
1998 budget; (3) has been reviewed and approved by the Internal Revenue 
Service's Investment Review Board, the Office of Management and Budget, 
and the Department of the Treasury's Modernization Management Board, and 
has been reviewed by the General Accounting Office; (4) meets the 
requirements of the May 15, 1997 Internal Revenue Service's Systems Life 
Cycle program; and (5) is in compliance with acquisition rules, 
requirements, guidelines, and systems acquisition management practices 
of the Federal Government.

                        Administrative Provisions

                        internal revenue service

    Section 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be transferred 
to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
<<NOTE: 26 USC 7803 note.>>     Sec. 102. The Internal Revenue Service 
shall maintain a training program to ensure that Internal Revenue 
Service employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing 
courteously with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.

    Sec. 103. The funds provided in this Act for the Internal Revenue 
Service shall be used to provide, as a minimum, the fiscal year 1995 
level of service, staffing, and funding for Taxpayer Services.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be used 
in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax imposed 
by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of officers and 
employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection with such 
collection, including any private sector employees under contract to the 
Internal Revenue Service,

[[Page 111 STAT. 1282]]

complies with subsection (a) of section 805 (relating to communications 
in connection with debt collection), and section 806 (relating to 
harassment or abuse), of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 
U.S.C. 1692).
<<NOTE: Confidentiality. 26 USC 6103 note.>>     Sec. 105. The Internal 
Revenue Service shall institute and enforce policies and procedures 
which will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer information.

    Sec. 106. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased manpower to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement 
of the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and 
allocate resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff to 
improve the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.
    Sec. 107. Hereafter, no field support reorganization of the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be undertaken in Aberdeen, South Dakota until the 
Internal Revenue Service toll-free help phone line assistance program 
reaches at least an 80 percent service 
level. <<NOTE: Reports. Certification.>>  The Commissioner shall submit 
to Congress a report and the General Accounting Office shall certify to 
Congress that the 80 percent service level has been met.

    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
reorganization of the field office structure of the Internal Revenue 
Service Criminal Investigation division will result in a reduction of 
criminal investigators in Wisconsin and South Dakota from the 1996 
level.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase not to exceed 705 vehicles for police-type use, of 
which 675 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State 
and local governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; 
services of expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the 
Director; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or 
control, as may be necessary to perform protective functions; for 
payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a 
protective assignment during the actual day or days of the visit of a 
protectee require an employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain 
overnight at his or her post of duty; the conducting of and 
participating in firearms matches; presentation of awards; for travel of 
Secret Service employees on protective missions without regard to the 
limitations on such expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is 
obtained in advance from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; for repairs, alterations, and minor construction at the 
James J. Rowley Secret Service Training Center; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in support 
of protective research and operations; not to exceed $20,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; for sponsorship of a 
conference for the Women in Federal Law Enforcement, to be held during 
fiscal year 1998; not to exceed $50,000 to provide technical assistance

[[Page 111 STAT. 1283]]

and equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations in counterfeit 
investigations; for payment in advance for commercial 
accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective functions; and 
for uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year; $564,348,000.

      acquisition, construction, improvement, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $8,799,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1998, shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 111. Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services to 
employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1998 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 
United States Customs Service, and United States Secret Service may be 
transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase 
or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector General, 
Financial Management Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be 
transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. No transfer may increase 
or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay from amounts 
transferred to the ``Departmental Offices'' appropriation, up to $26,034 
to reimburse Secret Service personnel for any attorney fees and costs 
they incurred with respect to investigation by the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1284]]

Department of the Treasury Inspector General concerning testimony 
provided to Congress: Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
pay an individual in full upon submission by the individual of 
documentation verifying the attorney fees and costs: Provided further, 
That the liability of the United States shall not be inferred from 
enactment of or payment under this provision: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall not pay any claim filed under this 
section that is filed later than 120 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That payment under this provision, when 
accepted, shall be in full satisfaction of all claims of, or on behalf 
of, the individual Secret Service agents who were the subjects of said 
investigation.
<<NOTE: 31 USC 301 note.>>     Sec. 116. (a)(1) Effective beginning on 
the date determined under paragraph (2), the compensation and other 
emoluments attached to the Office of Secretary of the Treasury shall be 
those that would then apply if Public Law 103-2 (107 Stat. 4; 31 U.S.C. 
301 note) had never been enacted.

<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (2) Paragraph (1) shall become effective 
on the later of--
            (A) the day after the date on which the individual holding 
        the Office of Secretary of the Treasury on January 1, 1997, 
        ceases to hold that office; or
            (B) the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to affect the 
compensation or emoluments due to any individual in connection with any 
period preceding the date determined under paragraph (2).
    (b) Subsection (b) of the first section of the public law referred 
to in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall not apply in the case of 
any appointment the consent of the Senate to which occurs on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) This section shall not be limited (for purposes of determining 
whether a provision of this section applies or continues to apply) to 
fiscal year 1998.
    Sec. 117. (a) Requirement of Advance Submission of 
Treasury Testimony.--During the fiscal year covered by this Act, any 
officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury who is scheduled 
to testify before the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives or the Senate, or any of its 
subcommittees, shall, not less than 7 calendar days (excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal public holidays) preceding the 
scheduled date of the testimony, submit to the committee or 
subcommittee--
            (1) a written statement of the testimony to be presented, 
        regardless of whether such statement is to be submitted for 
        inclusion in the record of the hearing; and
            (2) any other written information to be submitted for 
        inclusion in the record of the hearing.

    (b) Limitation on Treasury Clearance Process.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be used for any clearance process within 
the Department of the Treasury that could cause a submission beyond the 
specified time, as officially transmitted by the committee, of--
            (1) any corrections to the transcript copy of testimony 
        given before the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives or the Senate, or any of its subcommittees; or

[[Page 111 STAT. 1285]]

            (2) any information to be provided in writing in response to 
        an oral or written request by such committee or subcommittee for 
        specific information for inclusion in the record of the hearing.

    (c) Exception.--The time periods established in subsections (a) and 
(b) shall not apply to any specific testimony, or corrections, if the 
Secretary of the Treasury--
            (1) determines that special circumstances prevent 
        compliance; and
            (2) submits to the committee or subcommittee involved a 
        written notification of such determination, including the 
        Secretary's estimate of the time periods required for specific 
        testimony, information, or corrections.

<<NOTE: 3 USC 204 note.>>     Sec. 118. (a) New Rates of Basic Pay.--
Section 501 of the District of Columbia Police and Firemen's Salary Act 
of 1958 (District of Columbia Code, section 4-416), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Interior'' and all 
        that follows through ``Treasury,'' and inserting ``Interior'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b)(3);
            (3) in subsection (b)(3) (as redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking ``or to officers and members of the 
                United States Secret Service Uniformed Division''; and
                    (B) by striking ``subsection (b) of this section'' 
                and inserting ``this subsection''; and
            (4) by adding after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(c)(1) The annual rates of basic compensation of officers and 
members of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, serving 
in classes corresponding or similar to those in the salary schedule in 
section 101 (District of Columbia Code, section 4-406), shall be fixed 
in accordance with the following schedule of rates:
      

 
                                                ``SALARY SCHEDULE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Service steps
    Salary class and title    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1         2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Class 1: Private.............    29,215    30,088   31,559   33,009   35,331   37,681   39,128   40,593   42,052
Class 4: Sergeant............    39,769    41,747   43,728   45,718   47,715   49,713
Class 5: Lieutenant..........    45,148    47,411   49,663   51,924   54,180
Class 7: Captain.............    52,523    55,155   57,788   60,388
Class 8: Inspector...........    60,886    63,918   66,977   70,029
Class 9: Deputy Chief........    71,433    76,260   81,113   85,950
Class 10: Assistant Chief....    84,694    90,324   95,967
Class 11: Chief of the United    98,383   104,923
 States Secret Service
 Uniformed Division..........
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 111 STAT. 1286]]

<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     ``(2) Effective at the beginning of the 
first applicable pay period commencing on or after the first day of the 
month in which an adjustment takes effect under section 5303 of title 5, 
United States Code (or any subsequent similar provision of law), in the 
rates of pay under the General Schedule (or any pay system that may 
supersede such schedule), the annual rates of basic compensation of 
officers and members of the United States Secret Service Uniformed 
Division shall be adjusted by the Secretary of the Treasury by an amount 
equal to the percentage of such annual rate of pay which corresponds to 
the overall percentage of the adjustment made in the rates of pay under 
the General Schedule.

    ``(3) Locality-based comparability payments authorized under section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, shall be applicable to the basic 
pay under this section, except locality-based comparability payments may 
not be paid at a rate which, when added to the rate of basic pay 
otherwise payable to the officer or member, would cause the total to 
exceed the rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive 
Schedule.
    ``(4) Basic pay, and any locality pay combined with basic pay may 
not be paid by reason of any provision of this subsection (disregarding 
any locality-based comparability payment payable under Federal law) at a 
rate in excess of the rate of basic pay payable for level V of the 
Executive Schedule contained in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, 
United States Code.
    ``(5) Any reference in any law to the salary schedule in section 101 
(District of Columbia Code, section 4-406) with respect to officers and 
members of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division shall be 
considered to be a reference to the salary schedule in paragraph (1) of 
this subsection as adjusted in accordance with this subsection.
    ``(6)(A) Except as otherwise permitted by or under law, no 
allowance, differential, bonus, award, or other similar cash payment 
under this title or under title 5, United States Code, may be paid to an 
officer or member of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division 
in a calendar year if, or to the extent that, when added to the total 
basic pay paid or payable to such officer or member for service 
performed in such calendar year as an officer or member, such payment 
would cause the total to exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable for 
level I of the Executive Schedule, as of the end of such calendar year.
    ``(B) This paragraph shall not apply to any payment under the 
following provisions of title 5, United States Code:
            ``(i) Subchapter III or VII of chapter 55, or section 5596.
            ``(ii) Chapter 57 (other than section 5753, 5754, or 5755).
            ``(iii) Chapter 59 (other than section 5928).

    ``(7)(A) Any amount which is not paid to an officer or member of the 
United States Secret Service Uniformed Division in a calendar year 
because of the limitation under paragraph (6) shall be paid to such 
officer or member in a lump sum at the beginning of the following 
calendar year.
    ``(B) Any amount paid under this paragraph in a calendar year shall 
be taken into account for purposes of applying the limitations under 
paragraph (6) with respect to such calendar year.
<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     ``(8) The Office of Personnel Management 
shall prescribe regulations as may be necessary (consistent with section 
5582 of title 5, United States Code) concerning how a lump-sum payment 
under paragraph (7) shall be made with respect to any employee who

[[Page 111 STAT. 1287]]

dies before an amount payable to such employee under paragraph (7) is 
made.''.

    (b) Conversion to New Salary Schedule.--
        <<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (1)(A) Effective on the first day 
        of the first pay period beginning after the date of enactment of 
        this section, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall fix the rates of basic pay for 
        members of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division 
        in accordance with this paragraph.
            (B) Subject to subparagraph (C), each officer and member 
        receiving basic compensation, immediately prior to the effective 
        date of this section, at one of the scheduled rates in the 
        salary schedule in section 101 of the District of Columbia 
        Police and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958, as adjusted by law and 
        as in effect prior to the effective date of this section, shall 
        be placed in and receive basic compensation at the corresponding 
        scheduled service step of the salary schedule under subsection 
        (a)(4).
            (C)(i) The Assistant Chief and the Chief of the United 
        States Secret Service Uniformed Division shall be placed in and 
        receive basic compensation in salary class 10 and salary class 
        11, respectively, in the appropriate service step in the new 
        salary class in accordance with section 304 of the District of 
        Columbia Police and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958 (District of 
        Columbia Code, section 4-413).
            (ii) Each member whose position is to be converted to the 
        salary schedule under section 501(c) of the District of Columbia 
        Police and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958 (District of Columbia 
        Code, section 4-416(c)) as amended by this section, in 
        accordance with subsection (a) of this section, and who, prior 
        to the effective date of this section has earned, but has not 
        been credited with, an increase in his or her rate of pay shall 
        be afforded that increase before such member is placed in the 
        corresponding service step in the salary schedule under section 
        501(c).
            (2) Except in the cases of the Assistant Chief and the Chief 
        of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division, the 
        conversion of positions and individuals to appropriate classes 
        of the salary schedule under section 501(c) of the District of 
        Columbia Police and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958 (District of 
        Columbia Code, section 4-416(c)) as amended by this section, and 
        the initial adjustments of rates of basic pay of those positions 
        and individuals, in accordance with paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection, shall not be considered to be transfers or 
        promotions within the meaning of section 304 of the District of 
        Columbia Police and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958 (District of 
        Columbia Code, section 4-413).
            (3) Each member whose position is converted to the salary 
        schedule under section 501(c) of the District of Columbia Police 
        and Firemen's Salary Act of 1958 (District of Columbia Code, 
        section 4-416(c)) as amended by this section, in accordance with 
        subsection (a) of this section, shall be granted credit for 
        purposes of such member's first service step adjustment under 
        the salary schedule in such section 510(c) for all satisfactory 
        service performed by the member since the member's last increase 
        in basic pay prior to the adjustment under that section.

    (c) Limitation on Pay Period Earnings.--The Act of August 15, 1950 
(64 Stat. 477), (District of Columbia Code, section 4-1104), is 
amended--

[[Page 111 STAT. 1288]]

            (1) in subsection (h), by striking ``any officer or member'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``an officer or member of 
        the Metropolitan Police force; or of the Fire Department of the 
        District of Columbia; or of the United States Park Police'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (h)(3) as subsection (i); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3)(A) no premium pay provided by this section shall be 
        paid to, and no compensatory time is authorized for, any officer 
        or member of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division 
        whose rate of basic pay, combined with any applicable locality-
        based comparability payment, equals or exceeds the lesser of--
                    ``(i) 150 percent of the minimum rate payable for 
                grade GS-15 of the General Schedule (including any 
                applicable locality-based comparability payment under 
                section 5304 of title 5, United States Code or any 
                similar provision of law, and any applicable special 
                rate of pay under section 5305 of title 5, United States 
                Code or any similar provision of law); or
                    ``(ii) the rate payable for level V of the Executive 

                Schedule contained in subchapter II of chapter 53 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
            ``(B) In the case of any officer or member of the United 
        States Secret Service Uniformed Division whose rate of basic 
        pay, combined with any applicable locality-based comparability 
        payment, is less than the lesser of--
                    ``(i) 150 percent of the minimum rate payable for 
                grade GS-15 of the General Schedule (including any 
                applicable locality-based comparability payment under 
                section 5304 of title 5, United States Code or any 
                similar provision of law, and any applicable special 
                rate of pay under section 5305 of title 5, United States 
                Code or any similar provision of law); or
                    ``(ii) the rate payable for level V of the Executive 

                Schedule contained in subchapter II of chapter 53 of 
                title 5, United States Code,
        such premium pay may be paid only to the extent that such 
        payment would not cause such officer or member's aggregate rate 
        of compensation to exceed such lesser amount with respect to any 
        pay period.''.

    (d) Savings Provision.--On the effective date of this section, any 
existing special salary rates authorized for members of the United 
States Secret Service Uniformed Division under section 5305 of title 5, 
United States Code (or any previous similar provision of law) and any 
special rates of pay or special pay adjustments under section 403, 404, 
or 405 of the Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act of 1990 applicable 
to members of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division shall 
be rendered inapplicable.
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--The Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform 
Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 1466) <<NOTE: 5 USC 5305 note.>>  is amended by 
striking subsections (b)(1) and (c)(1) of section 405.

    (f) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section shall become 
effective on the first day of the first pay period beginning after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 119. Section 117 of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1997 (as contained in

[[Page 111 STAT. 1289]]

section 101(f) of division A of Public Law 104-208) <<NOTE: 110 
Stat. 3009-325.>>  is hereby repealed.

    Sec. 120. Based on results of industry response to the Request for 
Proposals, in tax-year 1998, the Internal Revenue Service shall initiate 
a pilot project which would pay qualified returns preparers, electronic 
return originators, or transmitters who electronically forward and file 
tax returns (form 1040 and related information returns) properly 
formatted and accepted by the Internal Revenue Service, up to $3.00 per 
return so filed if such payments are determined by the Commissioner of 
the Internal Revenue Service to be in the best interest of the 
Government: Provided, That the payment may not be made unless the 
electronic filing service is provided without charge to the taxpayer 
whose return is so filed: Provided further, That the Internal Revenue 
Service shall use standard procurement processes to establish this pilot 
project and through these processes, the Internal Revenue Service shall 
assure the security of all electronic transmissions and the full 
protection of the privacy of taxpayer data.
    Sec. 121. Subsection (a) of section 5378 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) The Secretary of the Department of the Treasury, or his 
designee, in his sole discretion shall fix the rates of basic pay for 
positions within the police forces of the United States Mint and the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing without regard to the pay provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, except that no entry-level police officer 
shall receive basic pay for a calendar year that is less than the basic 
rate of pay for General Schedule GS-7 and no executive security official 
shall receive basic compensation for a calendar year that exceeds the 
basic rate of pay for General Schedule GS-15.''.
<<NOTE: 31 USC 9703 note.>>     Sec. 122. (a) The Secretary of the 
Treasury is authorized to receive all unavailable collections 
transferred from the Special Forfeiture Fund established by section 
26073 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1509) by the 
Director of the Office of Drug Control Policy as a deposit into the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund (31 U.S.C. 9703(a)), to become available for 
obligation on October 1, 1998, as revenue available for purposes 
identified under 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B).

    (b) Paragraph (3)(C) of section 9703(g) of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by adding after the last sentence of that paragraph as 
amended by Public Law 104-208, the following sentence: ``Unobligated 
balances remaining pursuant to section 4(B) of 9703(g) shall also be 
carried forward.''.
    (c) Paragraph (4)(B) of section 9703(g) of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``, subject to subparagraph (C),'' from the 
first and only sentence of that paragraph.
<<NOTE: Alaska.>>     Sec. 123. Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Treasury shall establish the port of Kodiak, 
Alaska as a port of entry and United States Customs Service personnel in 
Anchorage, Alaska shall serve such port of entry. There are authorized 
to be appropriated such sums as necessary to cover the costs associated 
with the performance of customs functions using such United States 
Customs Service personnel.

    Sec. 124. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Inspector General to contract for advisory and assistance 
services that has the meaning given such term in section 1105(g) of 
title 31, United States Code.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1290]]

    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.

  <<NOTE: Postal Service Appropriations Act, 1998.>> TITLE II--POSTAL 
SERVICE

                   Payments to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $86,274,000: Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: 39 USC 403 note.>>  That 6-day delivery and 
rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any 
individual participating in a State or local program of child support 
enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided concerning an 
address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural 
and other small post offices in the fiscal year ending on September 30, 
1998.

    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1998''.

    <<NOTE: Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1998.>> TITLE III--
    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                      compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; $250,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>>  That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be expended for any other purpose 
and any unused amount shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 
1552 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available for official expenses shall be considered as 
taxable to the President.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as 
provided in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as 
provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to exceed $19,000 for official 
entertainment expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; $51,199,000: Provided, That 
$9,800,000 of the funds appropriated shall be available for 
reimbursements to the White House Communications Agency.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1291]]

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $8,045,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                          reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount for 
reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of the 
Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, <<NOTE: Notice.>>  That the Executive 
Residence shall ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a 
reimbursable operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the 
person owing such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, 
and that such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of 
such notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under section 3717 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That each such amount that is reimbursed, and 
any accompanying interest and charges, shall be deposited in the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Executive Residence shall prepare 
and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 
days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report 
setting forth the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive 
Residence during the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount 
of such expenses, the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable 
official and ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists 
of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount 
that has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Records. Reports.>>  That the Executive Residence 
shall: (1) implement a system for the tracking of expenses related to 
reimbursable events within the Executive Residence that includes a 
standard for the classification of any such expense as political or 
nonpolitical; and (2) prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations, by not later than December 1, 1997, a

[[Page 111 STAT. 1292]]

report setting forth a detailed description of such system and a 
schedule for its implementation: Provided further, That no provision of 
this paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive 
Residence from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II of 
chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $200,000, to remain available until 
expended for renovation and relocation of the White House laundry, to be 
expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 
112-114.

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,378,000.

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; $334,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its functions 
under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,542,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$3,983,000.

                        National Security Council

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $6,648,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1293]]

                        Office of Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles $28,883,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for a capital investment plan which provides 
for the modernization of the information technology infrastructure.

                     Office of Management and Budget

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $57,440,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the 
provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for 
the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except 
for testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, 
before the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the House 
and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: 
Provided further, That this proviso shall not apply to printed hearings 
released by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations or the 
House and Senate Committees on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for participation in joint projects or in the provision of 
services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$35,016,000, of which $17,000,000 shall remain available until expended, 
consisting of $1,000,000 for policy research and evaluation and 
$16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects: Provided, That the 
$16,000,000 for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center shall be 
available for transfer to other Federal departments or agencies: 
Provided further, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, 
administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for the purpose 
of aiding or facilitating the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1294]]

work of the Office: Provided further, That not before December 31, 1997, 
the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy shall 
transfer all balances in the Special Forfeiture Fund established by 
section 6073 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1509) to the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund (31 U.S.C. 9703(a)).

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $159,007,000 for 
drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for each 
of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas, of which 
$3,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area in Milwaukee, Wisconsin should the Director of the 
Office of National Drug Control Policy determine the location meets the 
designated criteria; of which $7,300,000 shall be used for national 
efforts related to methamphetamine reduction; of which $1,500,000 shall 
be used for methamphetamine reduction efforts within the Rocky Mountain 
High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area; of which $6,000,000 shall be used 
for a newly designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area in the 
three-State area of Kentucky, Tennessee, and West Virginia; of which 
$1,000,000 shall be used for a newly designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Area in central Florida; of which no less than $80,000,000 
shall be transferred to State and local entities for drug control 
activities, which shall be obligated within 120 days of the date of 
enactment of this Act and up to $79,007,000 may be transferred to 
Federal agencies and departments at a rate to be determined by the 
Director: Provided, That funding shall be provided for existing High 
Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas at no less than the fiscal year 1997 
level.

                         special forfeiture fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities to support a national anti-drug campaign for youth, 
and other purposes, authorized by Public Law 100-690, as amended, 
$211,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$195,000,000 shall be to support a national media campaign to reduce and 
prevent drug use among young Americans: Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided for the support of a national media campaign may be 
obligated until the Director, Office of National Drug Control Policy, 
submits a strategy for approval to the Committees on Appropriations and 
the Senate Judiciary Committee that includes: (1) guidelines to ensure 
and certify that funds will supplement and not supplant current anti-
drug community based coalitions; (2) guidelines to ensure and certify 
that funds will supplement and not supplant current pro bono public 
service time donated by national and local broadcasting networks; (3) 
guidelines to ensure and certify that none of the funds will be used for 
partisan political purposes; (4) guidelines to ensure and certify that 
no media campaigns to

[[Page 111 STAT. 1295]]

be funded pursuant to this campaign shall feature any elected officials, 
persons seeking elected office, cabinet-level officials, or other 
Federal officials employed pursuant to Schedule C of title 5, Code of 
Federal Regulations, section 213, absent advance notice to the 
Committees on Appropriations and the Senate Judiciary Committee; (5) a 
detailed implementation plan to be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Senate Judiciary Committee for securing private 
sector contributions including but not limited to in-kind contributions; 
(6) a detailed implementation plan to be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Senate Judiciary Committee of the qualifications 
necessary for any organization, entity, or individual to receive funding 
for or otherwise be provided broadcast media time; and (7) a system to 
measure outcomes of success of the national media campaign: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That the Director shall report to Congress 
quarterly on the obligation of funds as well as the specific parameters 
of the national media campaign and report to Congress within two years 
on the effectiveness of the national media campaign based upon the 
measurable outcomes provided to Congress previously: Provided further, 
That of the funds provided for the support of a national media campaign, 
$17,000,000 shall not be obligated prior to September 30, 1998: Provided 
further, That of the funds provided, $6,000,000 shall be used to 
continue the drug use reduction program for those involved in the 
criminal justice system: Provided further, That of the funds provided, 
$10,000,000 shall be to initiate a program of matching grants to drug-
free communities, as authorized in the Drug-Free Communities Act of 
1997.

    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.

   <<NOTE: Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998.>> TITLE IV--
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 1971, 
Public Law 92-28, $1,940,000.

                       Federal Election Commission

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $31,650,000, of which no less 
than $3,800,000 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available 
for reception and representation expenses: Provided, That of the amounts 
appropriated for salaries and expenses, $750,000 shall be transferred to 
the General Accounting Office for the sole purpose of entering into a 
contract with the private sector for a management review, and technology 
and performance audit, of the Federal Election Commission, and $300,000 
may be transferred to the Government Printing Office.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1296]]

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
Numbered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; $22,039,000: Provided, 
That public members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid 
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5703) for 
persons employed intermittently in the Government service, and 
compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-
Federal participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                     General Services Administration

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

    To carry out the purpose of the Fund established pursuant to section 
210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 
as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), the revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real property 
management and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased 
buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration 
of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including space 
adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection 
with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual 
services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair 
and alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, 
approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for public 
buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase contract, in the 
aggregate amount of $4,835,934,000, of which: (1) $300,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended, for repairs and alterations which 
includes associated design and construction services: Provided, That 
additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully approved may 
be funded under this category only if advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1297]]

Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with implementing 
security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the minimum 
standards for security in accordance with current law and in compliance 
with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the 
House and Senate: Provided further, That funds made available in this 
Act or any previous Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' shall, for 
prospectus projects, be limited to the amount originally made available, 
except each project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
percent when advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate of a greater amount: Provided 
further, That the difference between the funds appropriated and expended 
on any projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs 
and Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations 
or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  That all funds for repairs and 
alterations prospectus projects shall expire on September 30, 2000 and 
remain in the Federal Building Fund except funds for projects as to 
which funds for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in 
part prior to such date: Provided further, That the amount provided in 
this or any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to 
pay claims against the Government arising from any projects under the 
heading ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases 
in prospectus projects; (2) $142,542,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain 
available until expended; (3) $2,275,340,000 for rental of space which 
shall remain available until expended; (4) $1,331,789,000 for building 
operations which shall remain available until expended; and (5) 
$680,543,000 which shall remain available until expended for projects 
and activities previously requested and approved under this heading in 
prior fiscal years: Provided further, <<NOTE: 40 USC 490i.>>  That for 
the purposes of this authorization, and hereafter, buildings constructed 
pursuant to the purchase contract authority of the Public Buildings 
Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied pursuant to 
installment purchase contracts, and buildings under the control of 
another department or agency where alterations of such buildings are 
required in connection with the moving of such other department or 
agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under the control of 
the General Services Administration shall be considered to be federally 
owned buildings: Provided further, That funds available in the Federal 
Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
and Senate: Provided further, That amounts necessary to provide 
reimbursable special services to other agencies under section 210(f)(6) 
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as 
amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to provide such reimbursable 
fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or 
other property not in Government ownership or control as may be 
appropriate to enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be 
available from such revenues and collections: Provided further, That 
revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 1998, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)(6)) in excess of $4,835,934,000 shall remain in

[[Page 111 STAT. 1298]]

the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as authorized 
in appropriations Acts.

                          policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide and 
internal responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural 
analysis, and land use planning functions pertaining to excess and 
surplus real property; agency-wide policy direction; Board of Contract 
Appeals; accounting, records management, and other support services 
incident to adjudication of Indian Tribal Claims by the United States 
Court of Federal Claims; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and 
not to exceed $5,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
$107,487,000.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,870,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $10,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

            allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $2,208,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of such Acts.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     General Services Administration

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1998 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements: Provided, That any proposed 
transfers shall be approved in advance by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1299]]

    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 1999 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards for 
construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the priorities 
of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out in its 
approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal year 1999 
request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom utilization 
study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency which does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Section 10 of the General Services Administration General 
Provisions, Public Law 100-440, <<NOTE: 102 Stat. 1742.>>  is hereby 
repealed.

    Sec. 407. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 40 
U.S.C. 757 and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of Public Law 104-106, 
Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996, for performance of 
pilot information technology projects which have potential for 
Government-wide benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from 
any savings actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the 
extent feasible.
    Sec. 408. The Administrator of General Services is directed to 
ensure that the materials used for the facade on the United States 
Courthouse Annex, Savannah, Georgia project are compatible with the 
existing Savannah Federal Building-United States Courthouse facade, in 
order to ensure compatibility of this new facility with the Savannah 
historic district and to ensure that the Annex will not endanger the 
National Landmark status of the Savannah historic district.
    Sec. 409. (a) The Act approved August 25, 1958, as amended (Public 
Law 85-745; 3 U.S.C. 102 note), is amended by striking section 2.
    (b) Section 3214 of title 39, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``(a) Subject to 
        subsection (b), a'' and inserting ``A''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).

    Sec. 410. There is hereby appropriated to the General Services 
Administration such sums as may be necessary to repay debts to the 
United States Treasury incurred pursuant to section 6 of the 
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation Act of 1972, as amended 
(Public Law 92-578, 86 Stat. 1266, 40 U.S.C. 875), and in addition such 
amounts as are necessary for payment of interest and premiums, if any, 
related to such debts.
    Sec. 411. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund Limitations on Revenue'', claims against the Government 
of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction projects and 
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings effected in 
other construction projects with prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1300]]

    Sec. 412. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Administrator of General Services shall sell the property 
described in subsection (b) through a process of competitive bidding, in 
accordance with procedures and requirements applicable to such a sale 
under section 203(e) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services 
Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(e)).
    (b) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is the property known as the Bakersfield Federal 
Building, located at 800 Truxton Avenue in Bakersfield, California, 
including the land on which the building is situated and all 
improvements to such building and land.
    Sec. 413. Section 201(b) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 481) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) The Administrator shall as far as practicable provide any 
of the services specified in subsection (a) of this section to any other 
Federal agency, mixed ownership corporation (as defined in section 9101 
of title 31, United States Code), or the District of Columbia, upon its 
request.
    ``(2)(A) Upon the request of a qualified nonprofit agency for the 
blind or other severely handicapped that is to provide a commodity or 
service to the Federal Government under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 
U.S.C. 46 et seq.), the Administrator may provide any of the services 
specified in subsection (a) to such agency to the extent practicable.
    ``(B) A nonprofit agency receiving services under the authority of 
subparagraph (A) shall use the services directly in making or providing 
an approved commodity or approved service to the Federal Government.
    ``(C) In this paragraph--
            ``(i) The term `qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or 
        other severely handicapped' means--
                    ``(I) a qualified nonprofit agency for the blind, as 
                defined in section 5(3) of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act 
                (41 U.S.C. 48b(3)); and
                    ``(II) a qualified nonprofit agency for other 
                severely handicapped, as defined in section 5(4) of such 
                Act (41 U.S.C. 48b(4)).
            ``(ii) The term `approved commodity' and `approved service' 
        means a commodity and a service, respectively, that has been 
        determined by the Committee for Purchase from the Blind and 
        Other Severely Handicapped under section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-
        O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 47) to be suitable for procurement by the 
        Federal Government.''.

    Federal Payment to Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
                National Environmental Policy Foundation

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Trust Fund, to be available for purposes of 
Public Law 102-259, $1,750,000, to remain available until expended.

           John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board

    For the necessary expenses to carry out the John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, <<NOTE: Termination 
date.>>  $1,600,000: Provided, That $100,000 shall be available only for 
the purposes of the prompt

[[Page 111 STAT. 1301]]

and orderly termination of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records 
Review Board, to be concluded no later than September 30, 1998.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan 
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in 
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, and direct procurement of survey 
printing, $25,290,000, together with not to exceed $2,430,000 for 
administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, and for the 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $205,166,500: Provided, That the 
Archivist of the United States is authorized to use any excess funds 
available from the amount borrowed for construction of the National 
Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide adequate storage 
for holdings.

 archives facilities and presidential libraries repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities 
and presidential libraries, and to provide adequate storage for 
holdings, $14,650,000, to remain available until expended.

         National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as 
amended, $5,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Office of Government Ethics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, Public 
Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1302]]

not to exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
$8,265,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty; $85,350,000; and in 
addition $91,236,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs: Provided, 
That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the authority 
to use applicable trust funds as provided by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of 
title 5, United States Code: Provided further, That, except as may be 
consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made 
from the Employees Health Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or 
other provider of health care services or supplies who is, at the time 
such services or supplies are provided to an individual covered under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 
1128 or 1128A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 through 
1320a-7a), from participation in any program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.): Provided further, That no 
part of this appropriation shall be available for salaries and expenses 
of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of Personnel Management 
established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any 
successor unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the President's 
Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive Order No. 
11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1998, accept donations of money, property, and personal services in 
connection with the development of a publicity brochure to provide 
information about the White House Fellows, except that no such donations 
shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for 
the salaries of employees of such Commission.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1303]]

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as 
amended, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $960,000; and in addition, not to exceed 
$8,645,000 for administrative expenses to audit the Office of 
Personnel Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management, as determined by the Inspector General: Provided, That the 
Inspector General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

         payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided, <<NOTE: 33 USC 776.>>  That annuities authorized by 
the Act of May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as 
amended (33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil 
Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

                        Office of Special Counsel

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 
95-454), the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 (Public 
Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the Uniformed Services Employment 
and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for witnesses, 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $8,450,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1304]]

                         United States Tax Court

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,921,000: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 26 USC 7443 note.>>  travel expenses of the judges shall be 
paid upon the written certificate of the judge.

    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where 
such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 1998, for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the Treasury.
    Sec. 505. The Office of Personnel Management may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1998, and hereafter, accept donations of 
supplies, services, land, and equipment for the Federal Executive 
Institute and Management Development Centers to assist in enhancing the 
quality of Federal management.
    Sec. 506. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has within 
90 days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of not more than 1 year, made 
application for restoration to his former position and has been 
certified by the Office of Personnel Management as still qualified to 
perform the duties of his former position and has not been restored 
thereto.
    Sec. 507. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').

[[Page 111 STAT. 1305]]

    Sec. 508. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in 
expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
     (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 509. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 510. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 1998 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 1998 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 1999, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 511. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when it is made known to the Federal official 
having authority to obligate or expend such funds that--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

    Sec. 512. (a) Prohibiting Reappointment of Members of Federal 
Election Commission.--Section 306(a)(2)(A) of the 
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 437c(a)(2)(A)) is 
amended by striking ``for terms of 6 years'' and inserting ``for a 
single term of 6 years''.
<<NOTE: 2 USC 437c note.>>     (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to individuals nominated by the 
President to be members of the Federal Election Commission after 
December 31, 1997.

    Sec. 513. No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefit program which 
provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 514. The provision of section 513 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1306]]

    Sec. 515. Section 1 under the subheading ``General Provision'' under 
the heading ``Office of Personnel Management'' under title IV of the 
Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1992 
(Public Law 102-141; 105 Stat. 861; 5 U.S.C. 5941 note), as amended by 
section 532 of the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-329; 108 Stat. 2413), and by 
section 5 under the heading ``General Provisions--Office of Personnel 
Management'' under title IV of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-52; 109 Stat. 490), 
is further amended by striking ``1998'' both places it appears and 
inserting ``2000''.
    Sec. 516. (a) Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 8334 by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(m) A Member who has served in a position in the executive branch 
for which the rate of basic pay was reduced for the duration of the 
service of the Member to remove the impediment to the appointment of the 
Member imposed by article I, section 6, clause 2 of the Constitution, or 
the survivor of such a Member, may deposit to the credit of the Fund an 
amount equal to the difference between the amount deducted from the 
basic pay of the Member during that period of service and the amount 
that would have been deducted if the rate of basic pay which would 
otherwise have been in effect during that period had been in effect, 
plus interest computed under subsection (e).'';
            (2) in section 8337(a) by striking ``or (q)'' and inserting 
        ``(q), or (r)'';
            (3) in section 8339--
                    (A) in subsections (f) and (i) through (m) by 
                striking ``and (q) of this section'' and ``and (q)'' 
                each time either appears and inserting ``(q), and (r)'';
                    (B) in subsection (g) by striking ``or (q) of this 
                section'' each time it appears and inserting ``(q), or 
                (r)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:

    ``(r) The annuity of a Member who has served in a position in the 
executive branch for which the rate of basic pay was reduced for the 
duration of the service of the Member in that position to remove the 
impediment to the appointment of the Member imposed by article I, 
section 6, clause 2 of the Constitution, shall, subject to a deposit in 
the Fund as provided under section 8334(m), be computed as though the 
rate of basic pay which would otherwise have been in effect during that 
period of service had been in effect.'';
            (4) in section 8341(b)(1) and (d) by striking ``and (q) of 
        this title'' each place it appears and inserting ``(q), and 
        (r)'';
            (5) in section 8334a(c) by striking ``and (q) of section 
        8339 of this title'' and inserting ``(q), and (r) of section 
        8339'';
            (6) in section 8344(a)(A) by striking ``and (q) of this 
        title'' and inserting ``(q), and (r)'';
            (7) in section 8415 by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(h) The annuity of a Member who has served in a position in the 
executive branch for which the rate of basic pay was reduced for the 
duration of the service of the Member in that position to remove the 
impediment to the appointment of the Member imposed by article I, 
section 6, clause 2 of the Constitution, shall,

[[Page 111 STAT. 1307]]

subject to a deposit in the Fund as provided under section 8422(g), be 
computed as though the rate of basic pay which would otherwise have been 
in effect during that period of service had been in effect.''.
            (8) in section 8422 by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(g) A Member who has served in a position in the executive branch 
for which the rate of basic pay was reduced for the duration of the 
service of the Member to remove the impediment to the appointment of the 
Member imposed by article I, section 6, clause 2 of the Constitution, or 
the survivor of such a Member, may deposit to the credit of the Fund an 
amount equal to the difference between the amount deducted from the 
basic pay of the Member during that period of service and the amount 
that would have been deducted if the rate of basic pay which would 
otherwise have been in effect during that period had been in effect, 
plus interest computed under section 8334(e).''; and
            (9) in section 8468 by striking ``through (f)'' and 
        inserting ``through (g)''.

<<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date. 5 USC 8334a.>>     (b) The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall be applicable to any annuity 
commencing before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
shall be effective with regard to any payment made after the first month 
following the date of enactment.

    Sec. 517. (a) Section 5948 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d) by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following: ``No agreement shall be entered into 
        under this section later than September 30, 2000, nor shall any 
        agreement cover a period of service extending beyond September 
        30, 2002.''; and
            (2) in subsection (j)(2)(A) by striking ``September 30, 
        1997'' and inserting ``September 30, 2000''.

    (b) Section 3 of the Federal Physicians Comparability Allowance Act 
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 5948 note) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
1999'' and inserting ``September 30, 2002''.
<<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 5948 note.>>     (c) The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 518. (a)(1) Section 8341 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k)(1) Subsections (b)(3)(B), (d)(ii), and (h)(3)(B)(i) (to the 
extent that they provide for termination of a survivor annuity because 
of a remarriage before age 55) shall not apply if the widow, widower, or 
former spouse was married for at least 30 years to the individual on 
whose service the survivor annuity is based.
    ``(2) A remarriage described in paragraph (1) shall not be taken 
into account for purposes of section 8339(j)(5)(B) or (C) or any other 
provision of this chapter which the Office may by regulation identify in 
order to carry out the purposes of this subsection.''.
    (2) Such section 8341 is further amended--
            (A) in subsections (b)(3)(B) and (d)(ii) by striking 
        ``remarries'' and inserting ``except as provided in subsection 
        (k), remarries''; and
            (B) in subsection (h)(3)(B)(i) by striking ``in'' and 
        inserting ``except as provided in subsection (k), in''.

    (b)(1)(A) Section 8442(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 111 STAT. 1308]]

    ``(3) Paragraph (1)(B) (relating to termination of a survivor 
annuity because of a remarriage before age 55) shall not apply if the 
widow or widower was married for at least 30 years to the individual on 
whose service the survivor annuity is based.''.
    (B) Subsection (d)(1)(B) of such section 8442 is amended by striking 
``remarries'' and inserting ``except as provided in paragraph (3), 
remarries''.
    (2)(A) Section 8445 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(h)(1) Subsection (c)(2) (to the extent that it provides for 
termination of a survivor annuity because of a remarriage before age 55) 
shall not apply if the former spouse was married for at least 30 years 
to the individual on whose service the survivor annuity is based.
    ``(2) A remarriage described in paragraph (1) shall not be taken 
into account for purposes of section 8419(b)(1)(B) or any other 
provision of this chapter which the Office may by regulation identify in 
order to carry out the purposes of this subsection.''.
    (B) Subsection (c)(2) of such section 8445 is amended by striking 
``shall'' and inserting ``except as provided in subsection (h), shall''.
<<NOTE: Applicability. 5 USC 8341 note.>>     (c) The amendments made by 
this section shall apply with respect to remarriages occurring on or 
after January 1, 1995.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of employees 
serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness of said 
employee.
    Sec. 602. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1998 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such department, 
agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department, or 
instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences, or other meetings in connection with the provision 
of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant to 
this section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.
<<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>>     Sec. 604. Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), 
for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall 
be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded

[[Page 111 STAT. 1309]]

by not to exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed 
$4,000 for special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the 
limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded by more than 5 
percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration 
under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, 
Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, That the 
limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by the incremental cost 
of clean alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-
549 over the cost of comparable conventionally fueled vehicles.

    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
<<NOTE: 5 USC 3101 note.>>     Sec. 606. Unless otherwise specified 
during the current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States (including 
any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government 
of the United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is 
a person in the service of the United States on the date of enactment of 
this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration of 
intention to become a citizen of the United States prior to such date 
and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a national 
of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment of status 
pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: Provided, That 
for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by any such person 
shall be considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this 
section with respect to his or her status have been complied with: 
Provided further, That any person making a false affidavit shall be 
guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be fined no more than 
$4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both: Provided 
further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to, and not in 
substitution for, any other provisions of existing law: Provided 
further, That any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to 
the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by the 
Federal Government. This section shall not apply to citizens of Ireland, 
Israel, or the Republic of the Philippines, or to nationals of those 
countries allied with the United States in a current defense effort, or 
to international broadcasters employed by the United States Information 
Agency, or to temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of 
emergencies.

    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of

[[Page 111 STAT. 1310]]

buildings and facilities which constitute public improvements performed 
in accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior to 
        the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available: Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the 
Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards (except 
Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, or similar 
groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which do not have 
a prior and specific statutory approval to receive financial support 
from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 612. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and such 
guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of special 
policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or 
occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the same 
actions as the Administrator of General Services may take under the 
provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended 
(62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto penal 
consequences under the authority and within the limits provided

[[Page 111 STAT. 1311]]

in section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 613. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
<<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>>     Sec. 614. (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
part of any of the funds appropriated for the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1998, by this or any other Act, may be used to pay any 
prevailing rate employee described in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, 
United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 616 of the Treasury, Postal 
        Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1997, until 
        the normal effective date of the applicable wage survey 
        adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 1998, in an 
        amount that exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade 
        and step of the applicable wage schedule in accordance with such 
        section 616; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1998, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1998 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1998 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments which was 
                effective in fiscal year 1997 under such section.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     (c) For the purposes of this section, the 
rates payable to an employee who is covered by this section and who is 
paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 1997, shall be 
determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel 
Management.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1997, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
<<NOTE: Applicability.>>     (e) This section shall apply with respect 
to pay for service performed after September 30, 1997.

    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
section 8431 of title 5, United States Code, and any

[[Page 111 STAT. 1312]]

rule or regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life 
insurance, or any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the basis 
of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this section shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions to 
the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines that 
such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of 
qualified employees.
    Sec. 615. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 617. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 611 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
1998 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 618. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service 
pursuant to section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, without a 
certification to the Office of Personnel Management from the head of the 
Federal department, agency, or other instrumentality employing the 
Schedule C appointee that the Schedule C position was not created solely 
or primarily in order to detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;

[[Page 111 STAT. 1313]]

            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
        the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of the 
        Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing intelligence 
        functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.

    Sec. 619. No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 1998 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from discrimination and sexual harassment 
and that all of its workplaces are not in violation of title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in 
Employment Act of 1967, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including employees 
of the Executive Office of the President, not directly responsible for 
the discharge of official governmental tasks and duties: Provided, That 
this restriction shall not apply to the family of the President, Members 
of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State of a foreign country or 
their designees, persons providing assistance to the President for 
official purposes, or other individuals so designated by the President.
<<NOTE: President. Certification. 5 USC 7301 note.>>     Sec. 621. 
Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or his designee, 
must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or persons with 
direct or indirect responsibility for administering the Executive Office 
of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are themselves subject to a 
program of individual random drug testing.

    Sec. 622. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988;
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or
            (6) includes content related to human immunodeficiency 
        virus-acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than 
        that necessary to make employees more aware of the

[[Page 111 STAT. 1314]]

        medical ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the workplace rights of 
        HIV-positive employees.

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 623. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act for fiscal 
year 1998 may be used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard 
Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, 
form, or agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain 
the following provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and 
do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee 
obligations, rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 
12356; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing 
disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing 
disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) 
of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower 
Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse 
or public health or safety threats); the Intelligence Identities 
Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) (governing disclosures 
that could expose confidential Government agents); and the statutes 
which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national 
security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, 
United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 
1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, 
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by said Executive order and 
listed statutes are incorporated into this agreement and are 
controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, 
a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United States 
Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 624. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity 
or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
<<NOTE: Reports.>>     Sec. 625. (a) In General.--No later than 
September 30, 1998, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall submit to the Congress a report that provides--
            (1) estimates of the total annual costs and benefits of 
        Federal regulatory programs, including quantitative and 
        nonquantitative measures of regulatory costs and benefits;

[[Page 111 STAT. 1315]]

            (2) estimates of the costs and benefits (including 
        quantitative and nonquantitative measures) of each rule that is 
        likely to have a gross annual effect on the economy of 
        $100,000,000 or more in increased costs;
            (3) an assessment of the direct and indirect impacts of 
        Federal rules on the private sector, State and local government, 
        and the Federal Government; and
            (4) recommendations from the Director and a description of 
        significant public comments to reform or eliminate any Federal 
        regulatory program or program element that is inefficient, 
        ineffective, or is not a sound use of the Nation's resources.

    (b) Notice.--The Director shall provide public notice and an 
opportunity to comment on the report under subsection (a) before the 
report is issued in final form.
    Sec. 626. None of the funds appropriated by this Act or any other 
Act, may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home 
address to any labor organization except when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the employee has authorized such disclosure or that such disclosure has 
been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
<<NOTE: 18 USC 846 note.>>     Sec. 627. The Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized to establish scientific certification standards for 
explosives detection canines, and shall provide, on a reimbursable 
basis, for the certification of explosives detection canines employed by 
Federal agencies, or other agencies providing explosives detection 
services at airports in the United States.

    Sec. 628. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing or 
telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 629. Notwithstanding section 611, interagency financing is 
authorized to carry out the purposes of the National Bioethics Advisory 
Commission.
    Sec. 630. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 631. None of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used to acquire information technologies which do not comply 
with part 39.106 (Year 2000 compliance) of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, unless an agency's Chief Information Officer determines that 
noncompliance with part 39.106 is necessary to the function and 
operation of the requesting agency or the acquisition is required by a 
signed contract with the agency in effect before the date of enactment 
of this Act. <<NOTE: Reports.>> Any waiver granted by the Chief 
Information Officer shall be reported to the Office of Management and 
Budget, and copies shall be provided to Congress.

    Sec. 632. For fiscal year 1998, the Secretary of the Treasury is 
authorized to use funds made available to the FSLIC Resolution Fund 
under Public Law 103-327, not to exceed $33,700,000, to reimburse the 
Department of Justice for the reasonable expenses of litigation that are 
incurred in the defense of claims against the United States arising from 
FIRREA and its implementation.
    Sec. 633. Personal Allowance Parity Among NAFTA Parties. (a) In 
General.--The United States Trade Representative and the Secretary of 
the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary

[[Page 111 STAT. 1316]]

of Commerce, shall initiate discussions with officials of the 
Governments of Mexico and Canada to achieve parity in the duty-free 
personal allowance structure of the United States, Mexico, and Canada.
    (b) Report.--The United States Trade Representative and the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress within 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act on the progress that is being made to 
correct any disparity between the United States, Mexico, and Canada with 
respect to duty-free personal allowances.
    (c) Recommendations.--If parity with respect to duty-free personal 
allowances between the United States, Mexico, and Canada is not achieved 
within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the United 
States Trade Representative and the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
submit recommendations to Congress for appropriate legislation and 
action.
    Sec. 634. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow the 
importation into the United States of any good, ware, article, or 
merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured by forced or indentured 
child labor, as determined pursuant to section 307 of the Tariff Act of 
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
<<NOTE: Reports. 5 USC 5707 note.>>     Sec. 635. No later than 30 days 
after the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall require all Federal departments and agencies 
to report total obligations for the expenses of employee relocation. All 
obligations incident to employee relocation authorized under either 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, or section 901 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081; Public Law 96-465), shall be 
included. Such information for the past, current, and budget years shall 
be included in the agency budget submission to the President. The 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall prepare a table 
presenting obligations for the expenses of employee relocation for all 
departments and agencies, and such table shall be transmitted to 
Congress each year as part of the President's annual budget.

<<NOTE: 5 USC 5546 note.>>     Sec. 636. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
any other Act for any fiscal year shall be available for paying Sunday 
premium pay to any employee unless such employee actually performed work 
during the time corresponding to such premium pay.

    Sec. 637. Section 302(g)(1) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 432(g)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after ``Senator,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``candidate,'' the following: ``and 
        by the Republican and Democratic Senatorial Campaign 
        Committees''.

    Sec. 638. (a) Chapter 31 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting after section 3112 the following:

``Sec. 3113. Restriction on reemployment after conviction of 
                        certain crimes

    ``An employee shall be separated from service and barred from 
reemployment in the Federal service, if--
            ``(1) the employee is convicted of a violation of section 
        201(b) of title 18; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1317]]

            ``(2) such violation related to conduct prohibited under 
        section 1010(a) of the Controlled Substances Import and Export 
        Act (21 U.S.C. 960(a)).''.

    (b) The table of sections for chapter 31 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3112 
the following:

``3113. Restriction on reemployment after conviction of certain 
           crimes.''.

<<NOTE: Applicability. 5 USC 3113 note.>>     (c) This section shall 
apply during fiscal year 1998 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 639. (a) Coordination of Counterdrug Intelligence Centers and 
Activities.--(1) Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, including the 
Committees on Appropriations, a plan to improve coordination, and 
eliminate unnecessary duplication, among the counterdrug intelligence 
centers and counterdrug activities of the Federal Government, including 
the centers and activities of the following departments and agencies:
            (A) The Department of Defense, including the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency.
            (B) The Department of the Treasury, including the United 
        States Customs Service and the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
        Network (FinCEN).
            (C) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (D) The Coast Guard.
            (E) The Department of Justice, including the National Drug 
        Intelligence Center (NDIC); the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
        including the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC); and the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation.

    (2) The purpose of the plan under paragraph (1) is to maximize the 
effectiveness of the centers and activities referred to in that 
paragraph in achieving the objectives of the national drug control 
strategy. In order to maximize such effectiveness, the plan shall--
            (A) articulate clear and specific mission statements for 
        each counterdrug intelligence center and activity, including the 
        manner in which responsibility for counterdrug intelligence 
        activities will be allocated among the counterdrug intelligence 
        centers;
            (B) specify the relationship between such centers;
            (C) specify the means by which proper oversight of such 
        centers will be assured;
            (D) specify the means by which counterdrug intelligence will 
        be forwarded effectively to all levels of officials responsible 
        for United States counterdrug policy; and
            (E) specify mechanisms to ensure that State and local law 
        enforcement agencies are apprised of counterdrug intelligence 
        acquired by Federal law enforcement agencies in a manner which--
                    (i) facilitates effective counterdrug activities by 
                State and local law enforcement agencies; and
                    (ii) provides such State and local law enforcement 
                agencies with the information relating to the safety of 
                officials involved in their counterdrug activities.

    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:

[[Page 111 STAT. 1318]]

            (1) The Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate.
            (2) The Committee on International Relations, the Committee 
        on the Judiciary, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

    Sec. 640. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of 
        the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).

    Sec. 641. Section 5118(d)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``This paragraph shall'' and all that follows 
through the end of the paragraph.
<<NOTE: Federal Employees' Retirement System Open Enrollment Act of 
1997. 5 USC 8331 note.>>     Sec. 642. (a) This section may be cited as 
the ``Federal Employees' Retirement System Open Enrollment Act of 
1997''.

    (b) Any individual who, as of January 1, 1998, is employed by the 
Federal Government, and on such date is subject to subchapter III of 
chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, may elect to become subject 
to chapter 84 of such title in accordance with regulations promulgated 
under subsection (c).
<<NOTE: Regulations.>>     (c) The Office of Personnel Management shall 
promulgate regulations to carry out the provisions of this section. Such 
regulations shall--
            (1)(A) subject to subparagraph (B), provide for an election 
        under subsection (b) to be made not before July 1, 1998, or 
        after December 31, 1998; and
            (B) with respect to a Member of Congress, provide for--
                    (i) an election under subsection (b) to be made not 
                before July 1, 1998, or after October 31, 1998; and
                    (ii) such an election to take effect not before 
                January 4, 1999;
            (2) provide notice and information to individuals who may 
        make such an election, including information on a comparison of 
        benefits an individual would receive from coverage under chapter 
        83 or 84 of title 5, United States Code; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 1319]]

            (3) provide for treatment of such an election similar to the 
        applicable provisions of title III of the Federal Employees' 
        Retirement System Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-335; 100 Stat. 599 
        et seq.).

    (d)(1) Section 210(a)(5)(H)(i) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
410(a)(5)(H)(i)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``or'' after ``1986'' and inserting a comma; 
        and
            (B) by inserting ``or the Federal Employees' Retirement 
        System Open Enrollment Act of 1997'' after ``(50 U.S.C. 
        2157),''.

    (2) Section 3121(b)(5)(H)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 3121.>>  is amended--
            (A) by striking ``or'' after ``1986'' and inserting a comma; 
        and
            (B) by inserting ``or the Federal Employees' Retirement 
        System Open Enrollment Act of 1997'' after ``(50 U.S.C. 
        2157),''.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1998''.

    Approved October 10, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2378 (S. 1023):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-240, Pts. 1-3 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-
284 (Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-49 accompanying S. 1023 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Sept. 17, considered and passed House; passed Senate, 
                amended, in lieu of S. 1023.
            Sept. 30, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 1, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 33 (1997):
            Oct. 10, Presidential statement.
            Oct. 16, President's special message on line item veto.
FEDERAL REGISTER, Vol. 62 (1997):
            Oct. 17, Cancellation of item pursuant to the Line Item Veto 
                Act.

                                  <all>