[105th Congress Public Law 86]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ86.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 2079]]

Public Law 105-86
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 1998, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 18, 
                         1997 -  [H.R. 2160]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America <<NOTE: Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1998.>>  in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1998, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,836,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service, shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel of the Department of Agriculture to carry out 
section 793(c)(1)(C) of Public Law 104-127: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to enforce section 
793(d) of Public Law 104-127.

                          Executive Operations

                             chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, and the functions of 
the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section

[[Page 111 STAT. 2080]]

706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to 
exceed $5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,048,000.

                        national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                  office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,986,000.

                 office of the chief information officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to 
exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,773,000.

                  Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,283,000: Provided, 
That the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market cross-servicing 
activities of the National Finance Center.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded in this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, $123,385,000: 
Provided, That in the event an agency within the Department should 
require modification of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made available by this 
Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of this appropriation 
to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 
percent of

[[Page 111 STAT. 2081]]

the funds made available for space rental and related costs to or from 
this account. In addition, for construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the programs of the Department, where not 
otherwise provided, $5,000,000, to remain available until expended; and 
in addition, for necessary relocation expenses of the Department's 
agencies, $2,700,000, to remain available until expended; making a total 
appropriation of $131,085,000.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 
42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That appropriations and funds available herein to the 
Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be transferred to any 
agency of the Department for its use in meeting all requirements 
pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal lands.

                       Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $27,231,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of the 
Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies 
and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical 
and efficient work of the Department, including employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
in this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,668,000: Provided, That no other 
funds appropriated to the Department by this Act shall be available to 
the Department for support of activities of congressional relations: 
Provided further, That not less than $2,241,000 shall be transferred to 
agencies funded in this Act to maintain personnel at the agency level.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2082]]

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the dissemination 
of agricultural information, and the coordination of information, work, 
and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, $8,138,000, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not 
to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins.

                     Office of the Inspector General

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, $63,128,000, including such sums as may be necessary for 
contracting and other arrangements with public agencies and private 
persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978, including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed $95,000 for certain 
confidential operational expenses including the payment of informants, 
to be expended under the direction of the Inspector General pursuant to 
Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of Public Law 97-98: Provided, That 
funds transferred to the Office of the Inspector General through 
forfeiture proceedings or from the Department of Justice Assets 
Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as a 
participating agency, as an equitable share from the forfeiture of 
property in investigations in which the Office of the Inspector General 
participates, or through the granting of a Petition for Remission or 
Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this account for law 
enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector General Act of 
1978, to remain available until expended.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$28,524,000.

   Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other

[[Page 111 STAT. 2083]]

laws, $71,604,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$118,048,000, of which up to $36,327,000 shall be available until 
expended for the Census of Agriculture: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That, <<NOTE: 13 USC 142 note.>>  
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall conduct the 1997 Census of Agriculture, to the extent practicable, 
pursuant to the provisions of title 13, United States Code.

                      Agricultural Research Service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, $744,605,000: Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available for temporary 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $115,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>>  appropriations hereunder shall be available 
for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to 
exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the 
construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and improvements, but 
unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing any one building 
shall not exceed $250,000, except for headhouses or greenhouses which 
shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and except for ten buildings to be 
constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed $500,000 each, and the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building or 
$250,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That the limitations 
on alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or 
replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided 
further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement 
of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 
113a): Provided further, That funds may be received from any State, 
other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose 
of establishing or operating any research facility or research project 
of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law: Provided 
further, That the item under the heading ``Agricultural Research 
Service''

[[Page 111 STAT. 2084]]

in title I of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public 
Law 104-37; 109 Stat. 304), is amended by striking the penultimate 
proviso, relating to conveyance of the Pecan Genetics and Improvement 
Research Laboratory.

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $80,630,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That funds 
may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any research 
facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                    research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $168,734,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-i); $20,497,000 for grants for cooperative forestry 
research (16 U.S.C. 582a-a7); $27,735,000 for payments to the 1890 land-
grant colleges, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3222); 
$51,495,000 for special grants for agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)); $15,048,000 for special grants for agricultural research on 
improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $97,200,000 for competitive 
research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); $4,775,000 for the support of animal 
health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195); $650,000 for supplemental 
and alternative crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $550,000 for grants 
for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural Materials Act of 1984 
(7 U.S.C. 178) and section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until expended; $3,000,000 for 
higher education graduate fellowships grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,350,000 for higher 
education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); $1,000,000 for a 
higher education minority scholars program (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $2,500,000 for an 
education grants program for Hispanic-serving Institutions (7 U.S.C. 
3241); $4,000,000 for aquaculture grants (7 U.S.C. 3322); $8,000,000 for 
sustainable agriculture research and education (7 U.S.C. 5811); 
$9,200,000 for a program of capacity building grants (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee 
University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$1,450,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 
534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $11,226,000 for necessary expenses 
of Research

[[Page 111 STAT. 2085]]

and Education Activities, of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, $431,410,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

               Native American Institutions Endowment Fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                          Extension Activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, to be 
distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and under section 
208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' compensation 
costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail for cooperative 
extension agents and State extension directors, $268,493,000; payments 
for extension work at the 1994 Institutions under the Smith-Lever Act (7 
U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $2,000,000; payments for the nutrition and family 
education program for low-income areas under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$58,695,000; payments for the pest management program under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $10,783,000; payments for the farm safety program under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $2,855,000; payments for the pesticide impact 
assessment program under section 3(d) of the Act, $3,214,000; payments 
to upgrade 1890 land-grant college research, extension, and teaching 
facilities as authorized by section 1447 of Public Law 95-113 (7 U.S.C. 
3222b), $7,549,000, to remain available until expended; payments for the 
rural development centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $908,000; 
payments for a groundwater quality program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $9,061,000; payments for the agricultural telecommunications 
program, as authorized by Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), $900,000; 
payments for youth-at-risk programs under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$9,554,000; payments for a food safety program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $2,365,000; payments for carrying out the provisions of the 
Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, $3,192,000; payments for 
Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,672,000; 
payments for sustainable agriculture programs under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural health and safety education as 
authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 
2662), $2,628,000; payments for cooperative extension work by the 
colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-
326 and 328) and Tuskegee University, $25,090,000; and for Federal 
administration and coordination including administration of the Smith-
Lever Act, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-349), and 
section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), and 
to coordinate and provide program leadership for the extension work of 
the Department and the several States and insular possessions, 
$11,108,000; in all, $423,376,000: Provided, That funds hereby 
appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 1953, and 
section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to any State, 
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam,

[[Page 111 STAT. 2086]]

or the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa 
prior to availability of an equal sum from non-Federal sources for 
expenditure during the current fiscal year.

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal diseases; to 
carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory activities; to 
discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act 
of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and to protect the 
environment, as authorized by law, $426,282,000, of which $4,500,000 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds to 
the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, That no 
funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication 
program for the current fiscal year that does not require minimum 
matching by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall be 
for replacement only: Provided further, That, <<NOTE: 21 USC 129.>>  in 
addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural 
production industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from 
other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations 
of the Department such sums as he may deem necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious or 
infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, and section 
102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, and any unexpended balances of 
funds transferred for such emergency purposes in the next preceding 
fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred amounts: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings 
and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2087]]

    In fiscal year 1998 the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic and 
international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, or 
services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, without 
further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
    Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
1998, $88,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $4,200,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, and 
regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration and 
coordination of payments to States; including field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $46,592,000, including funds for the wholesale market development 
program for the design and development of wholesale and farmer market 
facilities for the major metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but 
the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $59,521,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating

[[Page 111 STAT. 2088]]

expenses, except for: (1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as 
authorized by the Fish and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers 
otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $10,690,000 for 
formulation and administration of marketing agreements and orders 
pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, for the administration of the Packers and 
Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect purchasers of 
farm products, and the standardization activities related to grain under 
the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $23,928,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

                    Inspection and Weighing Services

         limitation on inspection and weighing service expenses

    Not to exceed $43,092,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, $589,263,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
be available for obligation only after promulgation of a final rule to 
implement the provisions of subsection (e) of section 5 of the Egg 
Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(e)), and in addition, $1,000,000 
may be credited to this account from fees collected for the cost of 
laboratory accreditation as authorized

[[Page 111 STAT. 2089]]

by section 1017 of Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall not be available for shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of 
the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, the Risk Management Agency, and the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$700,659,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

                         dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, and 
in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk 
from commercial markets because of: (1) the presence of products of 
nuclear

[[Page 111 STAT. 2090]]

radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the fault of 
the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances not 
included under the first sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968 (7 
U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were not used in a 
manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling instructions 
provided at the time of use and the contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer, $550,000, to remain available until expended (7 
U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained in this Act 
shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer whose milk was 
removed from commercial markets as a result of his willful failure to 
follow procedures prescribed by the Federal Government: Provided 
further, That this amount shall be transferred to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized to 
utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy indemnity 
disbursements.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $460,000,000 of which $400,000,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,395,000,000 of which 
$1,700,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$200,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $34,653,000; and for credit sales of 
acquired property, $25,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $21,380,000 of which 
$15,440,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $71,394,000 
of which $19,890,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$19,280,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $132,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $6,008,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $250,000; and for credit sales of acquired 
property, $3,255,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $219,861,000 of which $209,861,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Farm Service Agency, 
Salaries and Expenses'' account.

                         Risk Management Agency

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 6933), 
$64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1506(i). In addition, notwithstanding the provisions of section 
516(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516(a)(1)(B)), 
for discretionary expenses,

[[Page 111 STAT. 2091]]

$188,571,000 for the payment of administrative and operating expenses of 
approved insurance providers.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                 federal crop insurance corporation fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1998, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed (estimated to be $783,507,000 in the President's 
fiscal year 1998 Budget Request (H. Doc. 105-3)), but not to exceed 
$783,507,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961 (15 
U.S.C. 713a-11).

        operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1998, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of 
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, 
That expenses shall be for operations and maintenance costs only and 
that other hazardous waste management costs shall be paid for by the 
USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                          CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, $693,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2092]]

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f) including preparation of conservation 
plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and water 
(including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special measures 
for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent floods and 
the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural related 
pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$633,231,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,835,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $8,825,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, 
that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 
2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance and related expenses to carry out programs 
authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control Act of 1974 (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That 
no part of this appropriation may be expended for soil and water 
conservation operations under the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-
f) in demonstration projects: Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to 
exceed $25,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That qualified local engineers may be temporarily 
employed at per diem rates to perform the technical planning work of the 
Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2): Provided further, That the Secretary is 
authorized to transfer ownership of land, buildings and related 
improvements of the plant materials facilities located at Bow, 
Washington, to the Skagit Conservation District.

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1009), $11,190,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2093]]

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing works 
and changes in use of land, in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005, 
1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-
f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating to the 
activities of the Department, $101,036,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 may be available 
for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): Provided, That not to exceed 
$50,000,000 of this appropriation shall be available for technical 
assistance: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $200,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not 
to exceed $1,000,000 of this appropriation is available to carry out the 
purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), 
including cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to relocate 
endangered or threatened species to other suitable habitats as may be 
necessary to expedite project construction.

                  resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of April 27, 1935 
(16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 
3451-3461), $34,377,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b): Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                       forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized in the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

               outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2094]]

                                TITLE III

            RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

           Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service, the Rural 
Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the 
Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

                   rural community advancement program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1926a, 1926c, and 1932, except for sections 
381E-H, 381N, and 381O of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f), $652,197,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which $27,062,000 shall be for rural community programs described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act; 
of which $577,242,000 shall be for the rural utilities programs 
described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; and of which $47,893,000 
shall be for the rural business and cooperative development programs 
described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided, That section 
381E(d)(3)(B) of such Act <<NOTE: 7 USC 2009d.>>  is amended by 
inserting after the phrase ``business and industry'', the words ``direct 
and'': Provided further, That of the amount appropriated for the rural 
business and cooperative development programs, not to exceed $500,000 
shall be made available for a grant to a qualified national organization 
to provide technical assistance for rural transportation in order to 
promote economic development: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated for rural utilities programs, not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be for water and waste disposal systems to benefit the Colonias 
along the United States/Mexico border, including grants pursuant to 
section 306C of such Act; not to exceed $15,000,000 shall be for water 
and waste disposal systems for rural and native villages in Alaska 
pursuant to section 306D of such Act; not to exceed $15,000,000 shall be 
for technical assistance grants for rural waste systems pursuant to 
section 306(a)(14) of such Act; and not to exceed $5,200,000 shall be 
for contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit 
rider program to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That of the total amounts appropriated, not to exceed 
$20,048,000 shall be available through June 30, 1998, for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66, of 
which $1,200,000 shall be for rural community programs described in 
section 381E(d)(1) of such Act; of which $18,700,000 shall be for the 
rural utilities programs described in section 381E(d)(2) of such Act; of 
which $148,000 shall be for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs described in section 381E(d)(3) of such Act: 
Provided further, That any obligated and unobligated balances available 
for prior years for the ``Rural Water and Waste Disposal Grants'', 
``Rural Water and Waste Disposal Loans Program Account'', ``Emergency 
Community Water Assistance Grants'', ``Solid

[[Page 111 STAT. 2095]]

Waste Management Grants'', the community facility grant program in the 
``Rural Housing Assistance Program Account'', ``Community Facility Loans 
Program Account'', ``Rural Business Enterprise Grants'', ``Rural 
Business and Industry Loans Program Account'', and ``Local Technical 
Assistance and Planning Grants'' shall be transferred to and merged with 
this account.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, to 
be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as follows: 
$4,000,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as determined by the 
Secretary, of which $3,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans; $30,000,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $19,700,000 for section 538 guaranteed 
multi-family housing loans; $15,000,000 for section 514 farm labor 
housing; $128,640,000 for section 515 rental housing; $600,000 for 
section 524 site loans; $25,000,000 for credit sales of acquired 
property; and $587,000 for section 523 self-help housing land 
development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $135,000,000, of which 
$6,900,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $10,300,000; section 538 multi-family housing 
guaranteed loans, $1,200,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$7,388,000; section 515 rental housing, $68,745,000; credit sales of 
acquired property, $3,492,000; and section 523 self-help housing land 
development loans, $17,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $354,785,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
Service--Salaries and Expenses''.

                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, $541,397,000; and in 
addition such sums as may be necessary, as authorized by section 521(c) 
of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992 to 
carry out the rental assistance program under section 521(a)(2) of the 
Act: Provided, That of this amount not more than $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed $10,000 
per project for advances to nonprofit organizations or public agencies 
to cover direct costs (other than purchase price) incurred in purchasing 
projects pursuant to section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, 
That agreements entered into or renewed during fiscal year 1998 shall be 
funded for a five-year period, although the

[[Page 111 STAT. 2096]]

life of any such agreement may be extended to fully utilize amounts 
obligated.

                   mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $26,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                 rural community fire protection grants

    For grants pursuant to section 7 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-313), $2,000,000 to fund up to 50 
percent of the cost of organizing, training, and equipping rural 
volunteer fire departments.

                     rural housing assistance grants

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For grants and contracts for housing for domestic farm labor, very 
low-income housing repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, and rural housing preservation 
made by the Rural Housing Service as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1474, 
1479(c), 1486, 1490c, 1490e, and 1490m, $45,720,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That any obligated and unobligated balances 
available from prior years in ``Rural Housing for Domestic Farm Labor'', 
``Supervisory and Technical Assistance Grants'', ``Very Low-Income 
Housing Repair Grants'', ``Compensation for Construction Defects'', and 
``Rural Housing Preservation Grants'' shall be transferred to and merged 
with this account: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,200,000 shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 1998, they shall remain available for other 
authorized purposes under this head.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, and cooperative 
agreements, $58,804,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

               rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $16,888,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of

[[Page 111 STAT. 2097]]

1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans of 
$35,000,000: Provided further, That through June 30, 1998, of the total 
amount appropriated, $3,345,000 shall be available for the cost of 
direct loans for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1993, to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct 
loans, $7,246,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $3,482,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Salaries and 
Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$25,000,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$5,978,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit payments 
in fiscal year 1998, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, $5,978,000 shall not be obligated and 
$5,978,000 are rescinded.

 alternative agricultural research and commercialization revolving fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$7,000,000 are appropriated to the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Corporation Revolving Fund.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $3,000,000, of which up to $1,300,000 may be available for 
cooperative agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural 
areas program.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act; section 1323 of the Food Security Act of 
1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities relating to 
the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946; for 
activities with institutions concerning the development and operation of 
agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; $25,680,000: 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944

[[Page 111 STAT. 2098]]

(7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $260,000 may be used for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), shall be made as follows: 5 
percent rural electrification loans, $125,000,000; 5 percent rural 
telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $500,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, 
rural electric, $300,000,000 and rural telecommunications, $120,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936), as follows: cost of direct loans, $12,265,000; cost 
of municipal rate loans, $21,100,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $60,000; cost of loans guaranteed pursuant to 
section 306, $2,760,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower interest 
rates may exceed 7 percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities 
Service--Salaries and Expenses''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs for the current fiscal year. During fiscal year 
1998 and within the resources and authority available, gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans shall be $175,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), 
$3,710,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Rural Utilities Service--Salaries and 
Expenses''.

               distance learning and medical link program

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., $12,530,000, to remain available until

[[Page 111 STAT. 2099]]

expended, to be available for loans and grants for telemedicine and 
distance learning services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of 
direct loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $33,000,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Consumer Service, 
$554,000.

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21; 
$7,767,816,000, to remain available through September 30, 1999, of which 
$2,616,425,000 is hereby appropriated and $5,151,391,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: 
Provided further, That up to $4,124,000 shall be available for 
independent verification of school food service claims.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,924,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1999: Provided, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be used for studies and evaluations: Provided 
further, That up to $12,000,000 may be used to carry out the farmers' 
market nutrition program from any funds not needed to maintain current 
caseload levels: Provided further, That notwithstanding sections 17(g), 
(h), and (i) of such Act, the Secretary shall adjust fiscal year 1998 
State allocations to reflect food funds available to the State from 
fiscal year 1997 under 
sections 17(i)(3)(A)(ii) and 17(i)(3)(D): Provided further, That the

[[Page 111 STAT. 2100]]

Secretary shall allocate funds recovered from fiscal year 1997 first to 
States to maintain stability funding levels, as defined by regulations 
promulgated under section 17(g), and then to give first priority for the 
allocation of any remaining funds to States whose funding is less than 
their fair share of funds, as defined by regulations promulgated under 
section 17(g): Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available to pay administrative expenses of WIC clinics except 
those that have an announced policy of prohibiting smoking within the 
space used to carry out the program: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this account shall be available for the purchase of 
infant formula except in accordance with the cost containment and 
competitive bidding requirements specified in section 17 of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966: Provided further, That State agencies required to 
procure infant formula using a competitive bidding system may use funds 
appropriated by this Act to purchase infant formula under a cost 
containment contract entered into after September 30, 1996, only if the 
contract was awarded to the bidder offering the lowest net price, as 
defined by section 17(b)(20) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, unless 
the State agency demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that 
the weighted average retail price for different brands of infant formula 
in the State does not vary by more than five percent.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $25,140,479,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That funds provided 
herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp 
Act: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any 
work registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be used for studies and evaluations.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) and for administrative 
expenses pursuant to section 204 of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 
1983, $141,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 1999: 
Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program.

               food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note), and section 
311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $141,165,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 1999.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2101]]

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $107,619,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         foreign agricultural service and general sales manager

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and for 
enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $135,561,000, of which $3,231,000 may be transferred from the 
Export Loan Program account in this Act, and $1,035,000 may be 
transferred from the Public Law 480 program account in this Act: 
Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse 
this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, 
public and private organizations and institutions under agreements 
executed pursuant to the agricultural food production assistance 
programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs of the 
International Development Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 2392).
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

                public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1715, 1721-1726, 1727-1727f, and 1731-1736g), 
as follows: (1) $226,900,000 for Public Law 480 title I credit, 
including Food for Progress programs; (2) $17,608,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985; (3) $837,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title II of said Act; and (4) $30,000,000 is hereby appropriated for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to 
title III of said Act: Provided, That not to exceed 15 percent of the 
funds made

[[Page 111 STAT. 2102]]

available to carry out any title of said Act may be used to carry out 
any other title of said Act: Provided further, That such sums shall 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, including the cost of modifying credit 
agreements under said Act, $176,596,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, to 
the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are utilized, 
$1,850,000.

        commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,820,000; 
to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the 
Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which not to exceed $3,231,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the salaries and 
expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, and of which not to exceed 
$589,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the 
salaries and expenses of the Farm Service Agency.

                              export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$5,500,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program extended to finance the export sales of United States 
agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as authorized by 
section 202(a) and (b) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5641).

                     emerging markets export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$200,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export guarantee program for 
credit expended to finance the export sales of United States 
agricultural commodities and the products thereof to emerging markets, 
as authorized by section 1542 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5622 
note).

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for rental

[[Page 111 STAT. 2103]]

of special purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; and 
for miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $948,705,000, of 
which not to exceed $91,204,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
derived from applications received during fiscal year 1998 shall be 
subject to the fiscal year 1998 limitation: Provided further, That none 
of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this account, to remain available 
until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $21,350,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                          rental payments (fda)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration 
which are included in this Act, $46,294,000: Provided, That in the event 
the Food and Drug Administration should require modification of space 
needs, a share of the salaries and expenses appropriation may be 
transferred to this appropriation, or a share of this appropriation may 
be transferred to the salaries and expenses appropriation, but such 
transfers shall not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for 
rental payments (FDA) to or from this account.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

   payments to the farm credit system financial assistance corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, for reimbursement of 
interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance Corporation on 
obligations issued through 1994, as authorized, $7,728,000.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2104]]

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not to exceed 
$25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,101,000, including not 
to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to charge reasonable fees to attendees of 
Commission sponsored educational events and symposia to cover the 
Commission's costs of providing those events and symposia, and 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $34,423,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 1998 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 394 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 391 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. Not <<NOTE: 7 USC 1623a.>>  less than $1,500,000 of the 
appropriations of the Department of Agriculture in this Act for research 
and service work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said 
Acts and chapter.

    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. New <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b.>>  obligational authority 
provided for the following appropriation items in this Act shall remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, the contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, 
fruit fly program, and integrated systems acquisition project; Farm 
Service Agency, salaries and expenses funds made available to county

[[Page 111 STAT. 2105]]

committees; and Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country 
training program.

    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field automation 
and information management project; funds appropriated for rental 
payments; funds for the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund in 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service; and 
funds for the competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to 
carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This does 
not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. Notwithstanding <<NOTE: 7 USC 612c note.>>  any other 
provision of this Act, commodities acquired by the Department in 
connection with Commodity Credit Corporation and section 32 price 
support operations may be used, as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 
7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide commodities to individuals in cases of 
hardship as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs in excess of the amounts specified in this Act; 
nor shall this or any other provision of law require a reduction in the 
level of rental space or services below that of fiscal year 1997 or 
prohibit an expansion of rental space or services with the use of funds 
otherwise appropriated in this Act. Further, no agency of the Department 
of Agriculture, from funds otherwise available, shall reimburse the 
General Services Administration for payment of space rental and related 
costs provided to such agency at a percentage rate which is greater than 
is available in the case of funds appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 712. With the exception of grants awarded under the Small 
Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219 (15 
U.S.C. 638), none of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the 
Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension

[[Page 111 STAT. 2106]]

Service that exceed 14 percent of total Federal funds provided under 
each award.
    Sec. 713. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 714. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1998 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1998 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; and 
the rural economic development loans program account.
    Sec. 715. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1998 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 716. Hereafter: (a) Compliance <<NOTE: 7 USC 2208 note.>>  With 
Buy American Act.--None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
funds the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of 
March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; popularly known as the ``Buy American 
Act'').

    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
             (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and 
        products.--In the case of any equipment or product that may be 
        authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided 
        using funds made available in this Act, it is the sense of the 
        Congress that entities receiving the assistance should, in 
        expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment 
        and products.
             (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

     (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 717. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between the Agricultural Marketing 
Service or the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a State or 
Cooperator to carry out agricultural marketing programs or to carry out 
programs to protect the Nation's animal and plant resources.
    Sec. 718. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5 percent of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone

[[Page 111 STAT. 2107]]

Bank or to maintain any account or subaccount within the accounting 
records of the Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not 
specifically been authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to 
the Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural 
Telephone Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of 
current requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set 
forth for financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990.
    Sec. 719. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide assistance to, or to pay the salaries of personnel who carry 
out a market promotion/market access program pursuant to section 203 of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623) that provides 
assistance to the United States Mink Export Development Council or any 
mink industry trade association.
    Sec. 720. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,000,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task forces 
of the Department of Agriculture except for panels used to comply with 
negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
awarded grants.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out an export enhancement program if the aggregate amount of 
funds and/or commodities under such program exceeds $150,000,000.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918 of Public Law 104-127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act.
    Sec. 723. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or otherwise 
make available to any non-Department of Agriculture employee questions 
or responses to questions that are a result of information requested for 
the appropriations hearing process.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
in this Act may be expended or obligated to fund the activities of the 
Western Director and Special Assistant to the Secretary within the 
Office of the Secretary of Agriculture or any similar position.
    Sec. 726. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board.
    Sec. 727. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by 
previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1998, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the

[[Page 111 STAT. 2108]]

agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new 
programs; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; (3) increases 
funds or personnel by any means for any project or activity for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or 
employees; (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or (6) 
contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities presently 
performed by Federal employees; unless the Appropriations Committees of 
both Houses of Congress are notified fifteen days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 1998, or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or 
projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing programs, 
projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 
percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general savings 
from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are notified 
fifteen days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 728. Section 3(c) of the Federal Noxious Weed Act of 1974 (7 
U.S.C. 2802(c)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, and includes kudzu (Pueraria lobata Dc)''.
    Sec. 729. Notwithstanding <<NOTE: South Carolina. Loans. Grants.>>  
section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949, (42 U.S.C. 1490) the Martin 
Luther King area of Pawley's Island, South Carolina, located in 
Georgetown County, shall be eligible for loans and grants under section 
504 of the Housing Act of 1949.

    Sec. 730. None of the funds made available to the Food and Drug 
Administration by this Act shall be used to close or relocate the Food 
and Drug Administration Division of Drug Analysis in St. Louis, 
Missouri.
    Sec. 731. Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  on October 1, 1998, 
section 136(a) of the Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 
7236(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Subject to paragraph (4), during'' 
                and inserting ``During''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``130'' and 
                inserting ``134'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (4); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).

    Sec. 732. Study of Northeast Interstate Dairy Compact. (a) 
Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Child, senior, and low-income nutrition programs.--The 
        term ``child, senior, and low-income nutrition programs'' 
        includes--
                    (A) the food stamp program established under the 
                Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
                    (B) the school lunch program established under the 
                National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.);

[[Page 111 STAT. 2109]]

                    (C) the summer food service program for children 
                established under section 13 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1761);
                    (D) the child and adult care food program 
                established under section 17 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
                1766);
                    (E) the special milk program established under 
                section 3 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
                1772);
                    (F) the school breakfast program established under 
                section 4 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1773);
                    (G) the special supplemental nutrition program for 
                women, infants, and children authorized under section 17 
                of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1786); and
                    (H) the nutrition programs and projects carried out 
                under part C of title III of the Older Americans Act of 
                1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030e et seq.).
            (2) Compact.--The term ``Compact'' means the Northeast 
        Interstate Dairy Compact.
            (3) Northeast interstate dairy compact.--The term 
        ``Northeast Interstate Dairy Compact'' means the Northeast 
        Interstate Dairy Compact referred to in section 147 of the 
        Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7256).
            (4) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Management and Budget.

    (b) Evaluation.--Not later than December 31, 1997, the Director 
shall conduct, complete, and transmit to Congress a comprehensive 
economic evaluation of the direct and indirect effects of the Northeast 
Interstate Dairy Compact and other factors which affect the price of 
fluid milk.
    (c) Components.--In conducting the evaluation, the Director shall 
consider, among other factors, the effects of implementation of the 
rules and regulations of the Northeast Interstate Dairy Compact 
Commission, such as rules and regulations relating to over-order Class I 
pricing and pooling provisions. This evaluation shall consider such 
effects prior to implementation of the Compact and that would have 
occurred in the absence of the implementation of the Compact. The 
evaluation shall include an analysis of the impacts on--
            (1) child, senior, and low-income nutrition programs 
        including impacts on schools and institutions participating in 
        the programs, on program recipients, and other factors;
            (2) the wholesale and retail cost of fluid milk;
            (3) the level of milk production, the number of cows, the 
        number of dairy farms, and milk utilization in the Compact 
        region, including--
                    (A) changes in the level of milk production, the 
                number of cows, and the number of dairy farms in the 
                Compact region relative to trends in the level of milk 
                production and trends in the number of cows and dairy 
                farms prior to implementation of the Compact;
                    (B) changes in the disposition of bulk and packaged 
                milk for Class I, II, or III use produced in the Compact 
                region to areas outside the region relative to the milk 
                disposition to areas outside the region;
                    (C) changes in--
                          (i) the share of milk production for Class I 
                      use of the total milk production in the Compact 
                      region; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 2110]]

                          (ii) the share of milk production for Class II 
                      and Class III use of the total milk production in 
                      the Compact region;
            (4) dairy farmers and dairy product manufacturers in States 
        and regions outside the Compact region with respect to the 
        impact of changes in milk production, and the impact of any 
        changes in disposition of milk originating in the Compact 
        region, on national milk supply levels and farm level milk 
        prices nationally; and
            (5) the cost of carrying out the milk price support program 
        established under section 141 of the Agricultural Market 
        Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7251).

    (d) Additional States and Compacts.--The Director shall evaluate and 
incorporate into the evaluation required under subsection (b) an 
evaluation of the economic impact of adding additional States to the 
Compact for the purpose of increasing prices paid to milk producers.
    Sec. 733. From proceeds earned from the sale of grain in the 
disaster reserve established in the Agricultural Act of 1970, the 
Secretary may use up to an additional $2,000,000 to implement a 
livestock indemnity program as established in Public Law 105-18.
    Sec. 734. Planting of Wild Rice on Contract Acreage.--None of the 
funds appropriated in this Act may be used to administer the provision 
of contract payments to a producer under the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for contract acreage on which 
wild rice is planted unless the contract payment is reduced by an acre 
for each contract acre planted to wild rice.
    Sec. 735. Rural Housing Programs. (a) Housing in Underserved Areas 
Program.--The first sentence of section 509(f)(4)(A) of the Housing Act 
of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1479(f)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 
1997'' and inserting ``fiscal year 1998''.
    (b) Housing and Related Facilities for Elderly Persons and Families 
and Other Low-Income Persons and Families.--
            (1) Authority to make loans.--Section 515(b)(4) of the 
        Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485(b)(4)) is amended by 
        striking ``September 30, 1997'' and inserting ``September 30, 
        1998''.
            (2) Set-aside for nonprofit entities.--The first sentence of 
        section 515(w)(1) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
        1485(w)(1)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 1997'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 1998''.
            (3) Loan term.--Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 
        U.S.C. 1485) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``up to 
                fifty'' and inserting ``up to 30''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
                      the following:
            ``(2) such a loan may be made for a period of up to 30 years 
        from the making of the loan, but the Secretary may provide for 
        periodic payments based on an amortization schedule of 50 years 
        with a final payment of the balance due at the end of the term 
        of the loan;'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at 
                      the end;

[[Page 111 STAT. 2111]]

                          (iii) in paragraph (6), by striking the period 
                      at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                          (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) the Secretary may make a new loan to the current 
        borrower to finance the final payment of the original loan for 
        an additional period not to exceed twenty years, if--
                    ``(A) the Secretary determines--
                          ``(i) it is more cost-efficient and serves the 
                      tenant base more effectively to maintain the 
                      current property than to build a new property in 
                      the same location; or
                          ``(ii) the property has been maintained to 
                      such an extent that it warrants retention in the 
                      current portfolio because it can be expected to 
                      continue providing decent, safe, and affordable 
                      rental units for the balance of the loan; and
                    ``(B) the Secretary determines--
                          ``(i) current market studies show that a need 
                      for low-income rural rental housing still exists 
                      for that area; and
                          ``(ii) any other criteria established by the 
                      Secretary has been met.''.

    (c) Loan Guarantees for Multifamily Rental Housing in Rural Areas.--
Section 538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490p-2) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (q), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Annual limitation on amount of loan guarantee.--In 
        each fiscal year, the Secretary may enter into commitments to 
        guarantee loans under this section only to the extent that the 
        costs of the guarantees entered into in such fiscal year do not 
        exceed such amount as may be provided in appropriation Acts for 
        such fiscal year.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (t) and inserting the following:

    ``(t) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 1998 for costs (as such term is defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of loan guarantees 
made under this section such sums as may be necessary for such fiscal 
year.''; and
            (3) in subsection (u), by striking ``1996'' and inserting 
        ``1998''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2112]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1998''.

    Approved November 18, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2160 (S. 1033):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-178 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-252 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-51 accompanying S. 1033 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            July 16, 17, 22, 24, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 2, 3, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu 
                of S. 1033.
            Oct. 6, House agreed to conference report.
            Oct. 29, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 33 (1997):
            Nov. 18, Presidential statement.
            Nov. 20, President's special message on line item veto.
FEDERAL REGISTER, Vol. 62 (1997):
            Nov. 24, Cancellation of items pursuant to the Line Item 
                Veto Act.

                                  <all>