[105th Congress Public Law 20]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ20.105]


[[Page 223]]

                    DRUG-FREE COMMUNITIES ACT OF 1997

[[Page 111 STAT. 224]]

Public Law 105-20
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To amend the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 to establish a 
     program to support and encourage local communities that first 
 demonstrate a comprehensive, long-term commitment to reduce substance 
      abuse among youth, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 27, 
                          1997 -  [H.R. 956]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Drug-Free 
Communities Act of 1997. 21 USC 1501 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997''.

SEC. 2. NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 (21 
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by inserting between sections 1001 and 1002 the 
        following:

         ``CHAPTER 1--OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY '';

        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

                   ``CHAPTER 2--DRUG-FREE COMMUNITIES

``SEC. 1021. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1521.>> FINDINGS.

    ``Congress finds the following:
            ``(1) Substance abuse among youth has more than doubled in 
        the 5-year period preceding 1996, with substantial increases in 
        the use of marijuana, inhalants, cocaine, methamphetamine, LSD, 
        and heroin.
            ``(2) The most dramatic increases in substance abuse has 
        occurred among 13- and 14-year-olds.
            ``(3) Casual or periodic substance abuse by youth today will 
        contribute to hard core or chronic substance abuse by the next 
        generation of adults.
            ``(4) Substance abuse is at the core of other problems, such 
        as rising violent teenage and violent gang crime, increasing 
        health care costs, HIV infections, teenage pregnancy, high 
        school dropouts, and lower economic productivity.
            ``(5) Increases in substance abuse among youth are due in 
        large part to an erosion of understanding by youth of the high 
        risks associated with substance abuse, and to the softening of 
        peer norms against use.

[[Page 111 STAT. 225]]

            ``(6)(A) Substance abuse is a preventable behavior and a 
        treatable disease; and
            ``(B)(i) during the 13-year period beginning with 1979, 
        monthly use of illegal drugs among youth 12 to 17 years of age 
        declined by over 70 percent; and
            ``(ii) data suggests that if parents would simply talk to 
        their children regularly about the dangers of substance abuse, 
        use among youth could be expected to decline by as much as 30 
        percent.
            ``(7) Community anti-drug coalitions throughout the United 
        States are successfully developing and implementing 
        comprehensive, long-term strategies to reduce substance abuse 
        among youth on a sustained basis.
            ``(8) Intergovernmental cooperation and coordination through 
        national, State, and local or tribal leadership and partnerships 
        are critical to facilitate the reduction of substance abuse 
        among youth in communities throughout the United States.

``SEC. 1022. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1522.>> PURPOSES.

    ``The purposes of this chapter are--
            ``(1) to reduce substance abuse among youth in communities 
        throughout the United States, and over time, to reduce substance 
        abuse among adults;
            ``(2) to strengthen collaboration among communities, the 
        Federal Government, and State, local, and tribal governments;
            ``(3) to enhance intergovernmental cooperation and 
        coordination on the issue of substance abuse among youth;
            ``(4) to serve as a catalyst for increased citizen 
        participation and greater collaboration among all sectors and 
        organizations of a community that first demonstrates a long-term 
        commitment to reducing substance abuse among youth;
            ``(5) to rechannel resources from the fiscal year 1998 
        Federal drug control budget to provide technical assistance, 
        guidance, and financial support to communities that demonstrate 
        a long-term commitment in reducing substance abuse among youth;
            ``(6) to disseminate to communities timely information 
        regarding the state-of-the-art practices and initiatives that 
        have proven to be effective in reducing substance abuse among 
        youth;
            ``(7) to enhance, not supplant, local community initiatives 
        for reducing substance abuse among youth; and
            ``(8) to encourage the creation of and support for community 
        anti-drug coalitions throughout the United States.

``SEC. 1023. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1523.>> DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this chapter:
            ``(1) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the 
        Administrator appointed by the Director under section 1031(c).
            ``(2) Advisory commission.--The term `Advisory Commission' 
        means the Advisory Commission established under section 1041.
            ``(3) Community.--The term `community' shall have the 
        meaning provided that term by the Administrator, in consultation 
        with the Advisory Commission.
            ``(4) Director.--The term `Director' means the Director of 
        the Office of National Drug Control Policy.

[[Page 111 STAT. 226]]

            ``(5) Eligible coalition.--The term `eligible coalition' 
        means a coalition that meets the applicable criteria under 
        section 1032(a).
            ``(6) Grant recipient.--The term `grant recipient' means the 
        recipient of a grant award under section 1032.
            ``(7) Nonprofit organization.--The term `nonprofit 
        organization' means an organization described under section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt 
        from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code 
        of 1986.
            ``(8) Program.--The term `Program' means the program 
        established under section 1031(a).
            ``(9) Substance abuse.--The term `substance abuse' means--
                    ``(A) the illegal use or abuse of drugs, including 
                substances listed in schedules I through V of section 
                112 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812);
                    ``(B) the abuse of inhalants; or
                    ``(C) the use of alcohol, tobacco, or other related 
                product as such use is prohibited by State or local law.
            ``(10) Youth.--The term `youth' shall have the meaning 
        provided that term by the Administrator, in consultation with 
        the Advisory Commission.

``SEC. 1024. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1524.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Office of National Drug Control Policy to carry out this chapter--
            ``(1) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1998;
            ``(2) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1999;
            ``(3) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2000;
            ``(4) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2001; and
            ``(5) $43,500,000 for fiscal year 2002.

    ``(b) Administrative Costs.--Not more than the following percentages 
of the amounts authorized under subsection (a) may be used to pay 
administrative costs:
            ``(1) 10 percent for fiscal year 1998.
            ``(2) 6 percent for fiscal year 1999.
            ``(3) 4 percent for fiscal year 2000.
            ``(4) 3 percent for fiscal year 2001.
            ``(5) 3 percent for fiscal year 2002.

          ``Subchapter I--Drug-Free Communities Support Program

``SEC. 1031. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1531.>> ESTABLISHMENT OF DRUG-FREE 
            COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Director shall establish a program to 
support communities in the development and implementation of 
comprehensive, long-term plans and programs to prevent and treat 
substance abuse among youth.
    ``(b) Program.--In carrying out the Program, the Director shall--
            ``(1) <<NOTE: Grants.>> make and track grants to grant 
        recipients;
            ``(2) provide for technical assistance and training, data 
        collection, and dissemination of information on state-of-the-art 
        practices that the Director determines to be effective in 
        reducing substance abuse; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 227]]

            ``(3) provide for the general administration of the Program.

    ``(c) Administration.--Not later than 30 days after receiving 
recommendations from the Advisory Commission under section 1042(a)(1), 
the Director shall appoint an Administrator to carry out the Program.
    ``(d) Contracting.--The Director may employ any necessary staff and 
may enter into contracts or agreements with national drug control 
agencies, including interagency agreements to delegate authority for the 
execution of grants and for such other activities necessary to carry out 
this chapter.

``SEC. 1032. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1532.>> PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.

    ``(a) Grant Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive an initial grant 
or a renewal grant under this subchapter, a coalition shall meet each of 
the following criteria:
            ``(1) Application.--The coalition shall submit an 
        application to the Administrator in accordance with section 
        1033(a)(2).
            ``(2) Major sector involvement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The coalition shall consist of 1 
                or more representatives of each of the following 
                categories:
                          ``(i) Youth.
                          ``(ii) Parents.
                          ``(iii) Businesses.
                          ``(iv) The media.
                          ``(v) Schools.
                          ``(vi) Organizations serving youth.
                          ``(vii) Law enforcement.
                          ``(viii) Religious or fraternal organizations.
                          ``(ix) Civic and volunteer groups.
                          ``(x) Health care professionals.
                          ``(xi) State, local, or tribal governmental 
                      agencies with expertise in the field of substance 
                      abuse (including, if applicable, the State 
                      authority with primary authority for substance 
                      abuse).
                          ``(xii) Other organizations involved in 
                      reducing substance abuse.
                    ``(B) Elected officials.--If feasible, in addition 
                to representatives from the categories listed in 
                subparagraph (A), the coalition shall have an elected 
                official (or a representative of an elected official) 
                from--
                          ``(i) the Federal Government; and
                          ``(ii) the government of the appropriate State 
                      and political subdivision thereof or the governing 
                      body or an Indian tribe (as that term is defined 
                      in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination 
                      Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e))).
                    ``(C) Representation.--An individual who is a member 
                of the coalition may serve on the coalition as a 
                representative of not more than 1 category listed under 
                subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Commitment.--The coalition shall demonstrate, to the 
        satisfaction of the Administrator--
                    ``(A) that the representatives of the coalition have 
                worked together on substance abuse reduction 
                initiatives, which, at a minimum, includes initiatives 
                that target drugs referenced in section 1023(9)(A), for 
                a period of not less

[[Page 111 STAT. 228]]

                than 6 months, acting through entities such as task 
                forces, subcommittees, or community boards; and
                    ``(B) substantial participation from volunteer 
                leaders in the community involved (especially in 
                cooperation with individuals involved with youth such as 
                parents, teachers, coaches, youth workers, and members 
                of the clergy).
            ``(4) Mission and strategies.--The coalition shall, with 
        respect to the community involved--
                    ``(A) have as its principal mission the reduction of 
                substance abuse, which, at a minimum, includes the use 
                and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1023(9)(A), in 
                a comprehensive and long-term manner, with a primary 
                focus on youth in the community;
                    ``(B) describe and document the nature and extent of 
                the substance abuse problem, which, at a minimum, 
                includes the use and abuse of drugs referenced in 
                section 1023(9)(A), in the community;
                    ``(C)(i) provide a description of substance abuse 
                prevention and treatment programs and activities, which, 
                at a minimum, includes programs and activities relating 
                to the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 
                1023(9)(A), in existence at the time of the grant 
                application; and
                    ``(ii) identify substance abuse programs and service 
                gaps, which, at a minimum, includes programs and gaps 
                relating to the use and abuse of drugs referenced in 
                section 1023(9)(A), in the community;
                    ``(D) develop a strategic plan to reduce substance 
                abuse among youth, which, at a minimum, includes the use 
                and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1023(9)(A), in 
                a comprehensive and long-term fashion; and
                    ``(E) work to develop a consensus regarding the 
                priorities of the community to combat substance abuse 
                among youth, which, at a minimum, includes the use and 
                abuse of drugs referenced in section 1023(9)(A).
            ``(5) Sustainability.--The coalition shall demonstrate that 
        the coalition is an ongoing concern by demonstrating that the 
        coalition--
                    ``(A) is--
                          ``(i)(I) a nonprofit organization; or
                          ``(II) an entity that the Administrator 
                      determines to be appropriate; or
                          ``(ii) part of, or is associated with, an 
                      established legal entity;
                    ``(B) receives financial support (including, in the 
                discretion of the Administrator, in-kind contributions) 
                from non-Federal sources; and
                    ``(C) has a strategy to solicit substantial 
                financial support from non-Federal sources to ensure 
                that the coalition and the programs operated by the 
                coalition are self-sustaining.
            ``(6) Accountability.--The coalition shall--
                    ``(A) establish a system to measure and report 
                outcomes--
                          ``(i) consistent with common indicators and 
                      evaluation protocols established by the 
                      Administrator; and
                          ``(ii) approved by the Administrator;
                     ``(B) conduct--

[[Page 111 STAT. 229]]

                          ``(i) for an initial grant under this 
                      subchapter, an initial benchmark survey of drug 
                      use among youth (or use local surveys or 
                      performance measures available or accessible in 
                      the community at the time of the grant 
                      application); and
                          ``(ii) biennial surveys (or incorporate local 
                      surveys in existence at the time of the 
                      evaluation) to measure the progress and 
                      effectiveness of the coalition; and
                    ``(C) provide assurances that the entity conducting 
                an evaluation under this paragraph, or from which the 
                coalition receives information, has experience--
                          ``(i) in gathering data related to substance 
                      abuse among youth; or
                          ``(ii) in evaluating the effectiveness of 
                      community anti-drug coalitions.

    ``(b) Grant Amounts.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Grants.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (iv), for 
                      a fiscal year, the Administrator may grant to an 
                      eligible coalition under this paragraph, an amount 
                      not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds 
                      raised by the coalition, including in-kind 
                      contributions, for that fiscal year.
                          ``(ii) Suspension of grants.--If such grant 
                      recipient fails to continue to meet the criteria 
                      specified in subsection (a), the Administrator may 
                      suspend the grant, after providing written notice 
                      to the grant recipient and an opportunity to 
                      appeal.
                          ``(iii) Renewal grants.--Subject to clause 
                      (iv), the Administrator may award a renewal grant 
                      to a grant recipient under this subparagraph for 
                      each fiscal year following the fiscal year for 
                      which an initial grant is awarded, in an amount 
                      not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds 
                      raised by the coalition, including in-kind 
                      contributions, for that fiscal year, during the 4-
                      year period following the period of the initial 
                      grant.
                          ``(iv) Limitation.--The amount of a grant 
                      award under this subparagraph may not exceed 
                      $100,000 for a fiscal year.
                    ``(B) Coalition awards.--
                          ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                      clause (ii), the Administrator may, with respect 
                      to a community, make a grant to 1 eligible 
                      coalition that represents that community.
                          ``(ii) Exception.--The Administrator may make 
                      a grant to more than 1 eligible coalition that 
                      represents a community if--
                                    ``(I) the eligible coalitions 
                                demonstrate that the coalitions are 
                                collaborating with one another; and
                                    ``(II) each of the coalitions has 
                                independently met the requirements set 
                                forth in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Rural coalition grants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--
                          ``(i) In general.--In addition to awarding 
                      grants under paragraph (1), to stimulate the 
                      development of coalitions in sparsely populated 
                      and rural areas, the

[[Page 111 STAT. 230]]

                      Administrator, in consultation with the Advisory 
                      Commission, may award a grant in accordance with 
                      this section to a coalition that represents a 
                      county with a population that does not exceed 
                      30,000 individuals. In awarding a grant under this 
                      paragraph, the Administrator may waive any 
                      requirement under subsection (a) if the 
                      Administrator considers that waiver to be 
                      appropriate.
                          ``(ii) Matching requirement.--Subject to 
                      subparagraph (C), for a fiscal year, the 
                      Administrator may grant to an eligible coalition 
                      under this paragraph, an amount not to exceed the 
                      amount of non-Federal funds raised by the 
                      coalition, including in-kind contributions, for 
                      that fiscal year.
                          ``(iii) Suspension of grants.--If such grant 
                      recipient fails to continue to meet any criteria 
                      specified in subsection (a) that has not been 
                      waived by the Administrator pursuant to clause 
                      (i), the Administrator may suspend the grant, 
                      after providing written notice to the grant 
                      recipient and an opportunity to appeal.
                    ``(B) Renewal grants.--The Administrator may award a 
                renewal grant to an eligible coalition that is a grant 
                recipient under this paragraph for each fiscal year 
                following the fiscal year for which an initial grant is 
                awarded, in an amount not to exceed the amount of non-
                Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind 
                contributions, during the 4-year period following the 
                period of the initial grant.
                    ``(C) Limitations.--
                          ``(i) Amount.--The amount of a grant award 
                      under this paragraph shall not exceed $100,000 for 
                      a fiscal year.
                          ``(ii) Awards.--With respect to a county 
                      referred to in subparagraph (A), the Administrator 
                      may award a grant under this section to not more 
                      than 1 eligible coalition that represents the 
                      county.

``SEC. 1033. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1533.>> INFORMATION COLLECTION AND 
            DISSEMINATION WITH RESPECT TO GRANT RECIPIENTS.

    ``(a) Coalition Information.--
            ``(1) General auditing authority.--For the purpose of audit 
        and examination, the Administrator--
                    ``(A) shall have access to any books, documents, 
                papers, and records that are pertinent to any grant or 
                grant renewal request under this chapter; and
                    ``(B) may periodically request information from a 
                grant recipient to ensure that the grant recipient meets 
                the applicable criteria under section 1032(a).
            ``(2) Application process.--The Administrator shall issue a 
        request for proposal regarding, with respect to the grants 
        awarded under section 1032, the application process, grant 
        renewal, and suspension or withholding of renewal grants. Each 
        application under this paragraph shall be in writing and shall 
        be subject to review by the Administrator.
            ``(3) Reporting.--The Administrator shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable and in a manner consistent with applicable 
        law, minimize reporting requirements by a grant recipient and

[[Page 111 STAT. 231]]

        expedite any application for a renewal grant made under this 
        subchapter.

    ``(b) Data Collection and Dissemination.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator may collect data from--
                    ``(A) national substance abuse organizations that 
                work with eligible coalitions, community anti-drug 
                coalitions, departments or agencies of the Federal 
                Government, or State or local governments and the 
                governing bodies of Indian tribes; and
                    ``(B) any other entity or organization that carries 
                out activities that relate to the purposes of the 
                Program.
            ``(2) Activities of administrator.--The Administrator may--
                    ``(A) evaluate the utility of specific initiatives 
                relating to the purposes of the Program;
                    ``(B) conduct an evaluation of the Program; and
                    ``(C) disseminate information described in this 
                subsection to--
                          ``(i) eligible coalitions and other substance 
                      abuse organizations; and
                          ``(ii) the general public.

``SEC. 1034. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1534.>> TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Technical assistance and agreements.--With respect to 
        any grant recipient or other organization, the Administrator 
        may--
                    ``(A) offer technical assistance and training; and
                    ``(B) enter into contracts and cooperative 
                agreements.
            ``(2) Coordination of programs.--The Administrator may 
        facilitate the coordination of programs between a grant 
        recipient and other organizations and entities.

    ``(b) Training.--The Administrator may provide training to any 
representative designated by a grant recipient in--
            ``(1) coalition building;
            ``(2) task force development;
            ``(3) mediation and facilitation, direct service, assessment 
        and evaluation; or
            ``(4) any other activity related to the purposes of the 
        Program.

                  ``Subchapter II--Advisory Commission

``SEC. 1041. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1541.>> ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY 
            COMMISSION.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be known 
as the `Advisory Commission on Drug-Free Communities'.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The Advisory Commission shall advise, consult with, 
and make recommendations to the Director concerning matters related to 
the activities carried out under the Program.

``SEC. 1042. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1542.>> DUTIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Advisory Commission--
            ``(1) shall, not later than 30 days after its first meeting, 
        make recommendations to the Director regarding the selection of 
        an Administrator;

[[Page 111 STAT. 232]]

            ``(2) may make recommendations to the Director regarding any 
        grant, contract, or cooperative agreement made by the Program;
            ``(3) may make recommendations to the Director regarding the 
        activities of the Program;
            ``(4) may make recommendations to the Director regarding any 
        policy or criteria established by the Director to carry out the 
        Program;
            ``(5) may--
                    ``(A) collect, by correspondence or by personal 
                investigation, information concerning initiatives, 
                studies, services, programs, or other activities of 
                coalitions or organizations working in the field of 
                substance abuse in the United States or any other 
                country; and
                    ``(B) with the approval of the Director, make the 
                information referred to in subparagraph (A) available 
                through appropriate publications or other methods for 
                the benefit of eligible coalitions and the general 
                public; and
            ``(6) may appoint subcommittees and convene workshops and 
        conferences.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Notification.>> Recommendations.--If the Director 
rejects any recommendation of the Advisory Commission under subsection 
(a)(1), the Director shall notify the Advisory Commission in writing of 
the reasons for the rejection not later than 15 days after receiving the 
recommendation.

    ``(c) Conflict of Interest.--A member of the Advisory Commission 
shall recuse himself or herself from any decision that would constitute 
a conflict of interest.

``SEC. 1043. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1543.>> MEMBERSHIP.

    ``(a) <<NOTE: President.>> In General.--The President shall appoint 
11 members to the Advisory Commission as follows:
            ``(1) four members shall be appointed from the general 
        public and shall include leaders--
                    ``(A) in fields of youth development, public policy, 
                law, or business; or
                    ``(B) of nonprofit organizations or private 
                foundations that fund substance abuse programs.
            ``(2) four members shall be appointed from the leading 
        representatives of national substance abuse reduction 
        organizations, of which no fewer than three members shall have 
        extensive training or experience in drug prevention.
            ``(3) three members shall be appointed from the leading 
        representatives of State substance abuse reduction 
        organizations.

    ``(b) Chairperson.--The Advisory Commission shall elect a 
chairperson or co-chairpersons from among its members.
    ``(c) Ex Officio Members.--The ex officio membership of the Advisory 
Commission shall consist of any two officers or employees of the United 
States that the Director determines to be necessary for the Advisory 
Commission to effectively carry out its functions.

``SEC. 1044. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1544.>> COMPENSATION.

    ``(a) In General.--Members of the Advisory Commission who are 
officers or employees of the United States shall not receive any 
additional compensation for service on the Advisory Commission. The 
remaining members of the Advisory Commission shall receive, for each day 
(including travel time) that they are engaged

[[Page 111 STAT. 233]]

in the performance of the functions of the Advisory Commission, 
compensation at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent to the annual 
rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-10 of the General Schedule.
    ``(b) Travel Expenses.--Each member of the Advisory Commission shall 
receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.

``SEC. 1045. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1545.>> TERMS OF OFFICE.

    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the term of office of 
a member of the Advisory Commission shall be 3 years, except that, as 
designated at the time of appointment--
            ``(1) of the initial members appointed under section 
        1043(a)(1), two shall be appointed for a term of 2 years;
            ``(2) of the initial members appointed under section 
        1043(a)(2), two shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and
            ``(3) of the initial members appointed under section 
        1043(a)(3), one shall be appointed for a term of 1 year.

    ``(b) Vacancies.--Any member appointed to fill a vacancy for an 
unexpired term of a member shall serve for the remainder of the 
unexpired term. A member of the Advisory Commission may serve after the 
expiration of such member's term until a successor has been appointed 
and taken office.

``SEC. 1046. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1546.>> MEETINGS.

    ``(a) In General.--After its initial meeting, the Advisory 
Commission shall meet, with the advanced approval of the Administrator, 
at the call of the Chairperson (or Co-chairpersons) of the Advisory 
Commission or a majority of its members or upon the request of the 
Director or Administrator of the Program.
    ``(b) Quorum.--Six members of the Advisory Commission shall 
constitute a quorum.

``SEC. 1047. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1547.>> STAFF.

    ``The Administrator shall make available to the Advisory Commission 
adequate staff, information, and other assistance.

[[Page 111 STAT. 234]]

``SEC. 1048. <<NOTE: 21 USC 1548.>> TERMINATION.

    ``The Advisory Commission shall terminate at the end of fiscal year 
2002.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 21 USC 1501 note.>> References.--Each reference in 
Federal law to subtitle A of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, with the 
exception of section 1001 of such subtitle, in any provision of law that 
is in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be deemed to be a reference to chapter 1 of the National Narcotics 
Leadership Act of 1988 (as so designated by this section).

    Approved June 27, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 956 (S. 536):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-105, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Government Reform and 
Oversight).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            May 22, considered and passed House.
            June 18, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 33 (1997):
            June 27, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>