[105th Congress Public Law 288]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ288.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 2778]]

Public Law 105-288
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for a land exchange involving certain National Forest System 
         lands within the Routt National Forest in the State of 
            Colorado. <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 1998 -  [H.R. 1021]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Miles Land 
Exchange Act of 1998.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Miles Land Exchange Act of 1998''.

SEC. 2. LAND EXCHANGE, ROUTT NATIONAL FOREST, COLORADO.

    (a) Authorization of Exchange.--If the non-Federal lands described 
in subsection (b) are conveyed to the United States in accordance with 
this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the party 
conveying the non-Federal lands all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of land consisting of approximately 84 
acres within the Routt National Forest in the State of Colorado, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Miles Land Exchange'', Routt 
National Forest, dated May 1996.
    (b) Receipt of Non-Federal Lands.--The parcel of non-
Federal lands referred to in subsection (a) consists of approximately 84 
acres, known as the Miles parcel, located adjacent to the Routt National 
Forest, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Miles Land 
Exchange'', Routt National Forest, dated May 1996. Title to the non-
Federal lands must be acceptable to the Secretary, and the conveyance 
shall be subject to such valid existing rights of record as may be 
acceptable to the Secretary. The parcel shall conform with the title 
approval standards applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
    (c) Approximately Equal in Value.--The values of both the Federal 
and non-Federal lands to be exchanged under this section are deemed to 
be approximately equal in value, and no additional valuation 
determinations are required.
    (d) Applicability of Other Laws.--Except as otherwise 
provided in this section, the Secretary shall process the land exchange 
authorized by this section in the manner provided in subpart A of part 
254 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.
    (e) Maps.--The maps referred to in subsections (a) and (b) shall be 
on file and available for inspection in the office of the Forest 
Supervisor, Routt National Forest, and in the office of the Chief of the 
Forest Service.
    (f ) Boundary Adjustment.--Upon approval and acceptance of title by 
the Secretary, the non-Federal lands conveyed to the United States under 
this section shall become part of the Routt

[[Page 112 STAT. 2779]]

National Forest, and the boundaries of the Routt National Forest shall 
be adjusted to reflect the land exchange. Upon receipt of the non-
Federal lands, the Secretary shall manage the lands in accordance with 
the laws and regulations pertaining to the National Forest System. For 
purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 
1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundaries of the Routt National Forest, as 
adjusted by this section, shall be considered to be the boundaries of 
the National Forest as of January 1, 1965.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyances under 
this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

    Approved October 27, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1021 (S. 590):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-506 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-79 accompanying S. 590 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            May 12, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>