[105th Congress Public Law 211]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ211.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 882]]

Public Law 105-211
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To extend the deadline under the Federal Power Act applicable to the 
 construction of FERC Project Number 3862 in the State of Iowa, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: July 29, 1998 -  [H.R. 2165]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE.

    (a) Project Numbered 3862.--Notwithstanding the time period 
specified in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
would otherwise apply to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission project 
numbered 3862, the Commission is authorized, at the request of the 
licensee for the project, and after reasonable notice, in accordance 
with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements of 
that section and the Commission's procedures under that section, to 
extend the time required for commencement of construction of the project 
for not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date of 
the expiration of the extension of the period required for commencement 
of construction that the Commission issued, prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 
U.S.C. 806) for the project described in subsection (a).
    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the license for the 
project referred to in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license 
effective as of the date of its expiration and extend the time required 
for commencement of construction of the project as provided in 
subsection (a) for not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods, the first 
of which shall commence on the date of such expiration.

    Approved July 29, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2165:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-273 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-237 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 143 (1997):
                                    Sept. 29, Nov. 13, considered and 
                                        passed House.
                                                        Vol. 144 (1998):
                                    July 17, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>