[105th Congress Public Law 227]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ227.105]

Public Law 105-227
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend the District of Columbia Convention Center and Sports Arena 
Authorization Act of 1995 to revise the revenues and activities covered 
 under such Act, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 12, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                4237]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REVENUES AND ACTIVITIES COVERED UNDER WASHINGTON CONVENTION 
            CENTER AND SPORTS ARENA AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1995.

    (a) In General.--Section 101 of the District of Columbia Convention 
Center and Sports Arena Authorization Act of 1995 (D.C. Code, sec. 47-
396.1) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
following:
    ``The fourth sentence of section 446 of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (D.C. Code, sec. 47-304) shall not apply with respect to 
the expenditure or obligation of any revenues of the Washington 
Convention Center Authority for any purpose authorized under the 
Washington Convention Center Authority Act of 1994 (D.C. Law 10-188).''.
    (b) Rule of Construction Regarding Revenue Bond Requirements Under 
Home Rule Act.--Nothing in the District of Columbia Convention Center 
and Sports Arena Authorization Act of 1995 may be construed to affect 
the application of section 490 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
to any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the Council 
of the District of Columbia or by any District instrumentality to which 
the Council delegates its authority to issue revenue bonds, notes, or 
other obligations under such section.

SEC. 2. WAIVER OF CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF WASHINGTON CONVENTION CENTER 
            AUTHORITY FINANCING AMENDMENT ACT OF 1998.

    Notwithstanding section 602(c)(1) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act, the Washington Convention Center Authority Financing Amendment 
Act of 1998 (D.C. Act 12-402) shall take effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

    Approved August 12, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4237:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            July 30, considered and passed House.
            July 31, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>