[105th Congress Private Law 5]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl5.105]

Private Law 105-5
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   For the relief of Heraclio Tolley. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                 378]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR HERACLIO TOLLEY.

    (a) In General.--Heraclio Tolley shall be classified as a child 
under section 101(b)(1)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act for 
purposes of approval of a relative visa petition filed under section 204 
of such Act by his adoptive parent and the filing of an application for 
an immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Heraclio Tolley enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall 
be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if 
otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the 
application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for 
adjustment of status are filed with appropriate fees within 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Heraclio Tolley, the Secretary 
of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, for the 
current or next following fiscal year, the worldwide level of family-
sponsored immigrants under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Heraclio 
Tolley shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

    Approved November 10, 1998.