[105th Congress Private Law 7]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl7.105]

Private Law 105-7
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     For the relief of Mai Hoa ``Jasmin'' Salehi. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 1794]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR MAI HOA ``JASMIN'' SALEHI.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Mai Hoa ``Jasmin'' Salehi 
shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of 
status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under 
section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Mai Hoa ``Jasmin'' Salehi enters the 
United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), 
she shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, 
if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under 
section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Mai Hoa ``Jasmin'' Salehi, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the 
alien's birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
available to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 
202(e) of such Act.

    Approved November 10, 1998.