[105th Congress Public Law 357]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ357.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3271]]

Public Law 105-357
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To amend the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act to place 
      limitations on controlled substances brought into the United 
             States. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 1998 -  [H.R. 3633]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Controlled 
Substances Trafficking Prohibition Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 21 USC 801 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Controlled Substances Trafficking 
Prohibition Act''.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 1006(a) of the Controlled Substances Import 
and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 956(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Attorney General'' and inserting ``(1) 
        Subject to paragraph (2), the Attorney General''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(2) Notwithstanding any exemption under paragraph (1), a United 
States resident who enters the United States through an international 
land border with a controlled substance (except a substance in schedule 
I) for which the individual does not possess a valid prescription issued 
by a practitioner (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) in accordance with applicable Federal 
and State law (or documentation that verifies the issuance of such a 
prescription to that individual) may not import the controlled substance 
into the United States in an amount that exceeds 50 dosage units of the 
controlled substance.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 21 USC 956 note.>>  Federal Minimum Requirement.--
Section 1006(a)(2) of the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, 
as added by this section, is a minimum Federal requirement and shall not 
be construed to limit a State from imposing any additional requirement.

    (c) <<NOTE: 21 USC 956 note.>>  Extent.--The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall not be construed to affect the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).

    Approved November 10, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3633:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-629, Pt. 1 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Aug. 3, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>