[105th Congress Public Law 295]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ295.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 2820]]

Public Law 105-295
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the construction of temperature control devices at Folsom 
       Dam in California. <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 1998 -  [H.R. 4079]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT TEMPERATURE 
            CONTROL DEVICES.

    (a) Folsom Dam.--The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized 
to construct in accordance with the draft environmental impact 
statement/environmental impact report for the Central Valley Supply 
contracts under Public Law 101-514 (section 206) and the report entitled 
``Assessment of the Beneficial and Adverse Impacts of Operating a 
Temperature Control Device (TCD) at the Water Supply Intakes of Folsom 
Dam'', a temperature control device on Folsom Dam and necessary 
associated temperature monitoring facilities. The temperature control 
device and said associated temperature monitoring facilities shall be 
operated as an integral part of the Central Valley Project for the 
benefit and propagation of fall-run chinook salmon and steelhead trout 
in the American River, California.
    (b) Device on Non-CVP Facilities.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
hereby authorized to construct or assist in the construction of one or 
more temperature control devices on existing non-Federal facilities 
delivering Central Valley Project water supplies from Folsom Reservoir 
and necessary associated temperature monitoring facilities. These costs 
of construction of temperature control device and associated temperature 
monitoring facilities shall be nonreimbursable and operated by the non-
Federal facility owner at its expense, in coordination with the Central 
Valley Project for the benefit and propagation of chinook salmon and 
steelhead trout in the American River, California.
    (c) Authorization.--There is hereby authorized to be appropriated 
for the construction of a temperature control device on Folsom Dam and 
necessary associated temperature monitoring facilities the sum of 
$5,000,000 (adjusted for inflation based on October 1997 prices). There 
is also authorized to be appropriated for the construction of a 
temperature control device on existing non-Federal facilities and 
necessary associated temperature monitoring facilities the sum of 
$1,000,000 (October 1997 prices). There is also authorized to be 
appropriated, in addition thereto, such

[[Page 112 STAT. 2821]]

amounts as are required for operation, maintenance, and replacement of 
the temperature control devices on Folsom Dam and associated temperature 
monitoring facilities.

    Approved October 27, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4079:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-717 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-378 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Sept. 15, considered and passed House..
            Oct. 7, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>