[105th Congress Public Law 191]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ191.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 624]]

Public Law 105-191
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To extend the deadline under the Federal Power Act applicable to the 
 construction of the AuSable Hydroelectric Project in New York, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: July 14, 1998 -  [H.R. 848]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE.

    (a) Project Numbered 10836.--Notwithstanding the time period 
specified in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
would otherwise apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
project numbered 10836-000NY, the Commission shall, at the request of 
the licensee for the project, and after reasonable notice, in accordance 
with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements of 
that section and the Commission's procedures under that section, extend 
the time period during which the licensee is required to commence the 
construction of the project, under the extension described in subsection 
(b), for not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods.
    (b) Effective Date.--This subsection shall take effect on the date 
of the expiration of the extension of the period required for 
commencement of construction of the project described in subsection (a) 
that the Commission issued, prior to the date of enactment of this Act, 
under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806).
    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the license for the 
project referred to in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license 
effective as of the date of its expiration and extend the time required 
for commencement of construction of the project as provided in 
subsection (a) for not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods, the first 
of which shall commence on the date of such expiration.

    Approved July 14, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 848:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-122 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-135 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 143 (1997):
                                    June 10, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 144 (1998):
                                    June 25, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>