[105th Congress Public Law 16]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ16.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 35]]

Public Law 105-16
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
Congress to Mother Teresa of Calcutta in recognition of her outstanding 
     and enduring contributions through humanitarian and charitable 
   activities, and for other purposes.  <<NOTE: June 2, 1997 -  [H.R. 
                                1650]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) Mother Teresa of Calcutta has greatly impacted the lives 
        of people in all walks of life in every corner of the world 
        through love and her selfless dedication to humanity and 
        charitable works for nearly 70 years;
            (2) Mother Teresa has expanded her personal dedication by 
        founding the Missionaries of Charity, which include well over 
        3,000 members in 25 countries, who devote their entire lives to 
        serving the poor without accepting any material reward in 
        return;
            (3) Mother Teresa has been recognized as a humanitarian 
        around the world and has been recognized in the form of--
                    (A) the first Pope John XXIII Peace Prize (1971);
                    (B) the Jawaharal Nehru Award for International 
                Understanding (1972);
                    (C) the Nobel Peace Prize (1979); and
                    (D) the Presidential Medal of Freedom (1985);
            (4) Mother Teresa is a tool of God;
            (5) God's love flowing through Mother Teresa has forever 
        impacted the culture and history of the world; and
            (6) Mother Teresa truly leads by example and shows the 
        people of the world the way to live by love for mankind.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of the Congress, a gold medal of appropriate design 
to Mother Teresa of Calcutta in recognition of her outstanding and 
enduring contributions to humanitarian and charitable activities.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal 
with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by 
the Secretary.

[[Page 111 STAT. 36]]

SEC. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, and at a price sufficient to cover the costs 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead 
expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for 
purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; 
            PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be charged against the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund an amount not 
to exceed $30,000 to pay for the cost of the medal authorized by this 
Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sales of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the Numismatic 
Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved June 2, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1650:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            May 20, considered and passed House.
            May 21, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>