[105th Congress Public Law 275]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ275.105]

[CORRECTED PRINT*]

[[Page 2429]]

               LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 1999




__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *Note: The word ``President'' has been added in Sec. 312(b)(1)(A) on 
page 112 Stat. 2458.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2430]]

Public Law 105-275
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
                                 ending 
      September 30, 1999, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 21, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 4112]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1999.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1999, and for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS <<NOTE: Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1999. 2 USC 60a note.>> 

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $87,233,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,659,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $402,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,436,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2431]]

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,416,000.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $6,050,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,092,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,184,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $570,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,109,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,218,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $267,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $13,694,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $33,805,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,200,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $21,332,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the Senate, $3,753,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,004,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2432]]

           Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, 
 Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the 
                   Majority and Minority of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $66,800,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $370,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,511,000.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $60,511,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2000.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $8,655,000.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$239,156,000.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Section 1. (a) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective in the case of 
any fiscal year which begins on or after October 1, 1998, clause (iii) 
of paragraph (3)(A) of section 506(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 58(b)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(iii) subject to subparagraph (B), in case the Senator 
        represents Alabama, $183,565, Alaska, $252,505, Arizona, 
        $197,409, Arkansas, $168,535, California, $470,272, Colorado,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2433]]

        $187,366, Connecticut, $161,691, Delaware, $127,384, Florida, 
        $302,307, Georgia, $211,784, Hawaii, $279,648, Idaho, $163,841, 
        Illinois, $267,000, Indiana, $195,391, Iowa, $171,340, Kansas, 
        $168,912, Kentucky, $176,975, Louisiana, $186,714, Maine, 
        $148,205, Maryland, $172,455, Massachusetts, $196,819, Michigan, 
        $235,846, Minnesota, $187,742, Mississippi, $168,587, Missouri, 
        $198,365, Montana, $161,857, Nebraska, $160,550, Nevada, 
        $171,208, New Hampshire, $142,497, New Jersey, $207,754, New 
        Mexico, $166,721, New York, $328,586, North Carolina, $212,711, 
        North Dakota, $150,225, Ohio, $262,252, Oklahoma, $181,913, 
        Oregon, $189,258, Pennsylvania, $267,240, Rhode Island, 
        $138,637, South Carolina, $171,731, South Dakota, $151,838, 
        Tennessee, $192,508, Texas, $353,911, Utah, $168,959, Vermont, 
        $136,315, Virginia, $193,935, Washington, $213,887, West 
        Virginia, $149,135, Wisconsin, $191,314, Wyoming, $153,016, 
        plus''.

    (b) Subparagraph (B) of section 506(b)(3) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1973 (2 U.S.C. 58(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``the amount referred to in subparagraph 
        (A)(iii)'' and inserting ``that part of the amount referred to 
        in subparagraph (A)(iii) that is not specifically allocated for 
        official mail expenses''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``; and the part of the amount referred to in subparagraph 
        (A)(iii) that is allocated for official mail expenses shall be 
        recalculated in accordance with regulations of the Committee on 
        Rules and Administration''.

    Sec. 2. (a) Section 2(b) of Public Law 104-53 (2 U.S.C. 61d-3(b)) is 
amended by striking ``$10,000'' and inserting ``$35,000''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61d-3 note.>> The amendment made 
by subsection (a) is effective on and after October 1, 1998.

    Sec. 3. Subsection (a) of the first section of Senate Resolution 
149, agreed to October 5, 1993 (103d Congress, 1st Session), as amended 
by Senate Resolution 299, agreed to September 24, 1996 (104th Congress, 
2d Session), is amended by striking ``until December 31, 1998'' and 
inserting ``until December 31, 2000''.
    Sec. 4. (a) Section 101(a) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: 
        ``The President pro tempore of the Senate is authorized to 
        appoint and fix the compensation of one consultant, on a 
        temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation 
        not in excess of that specified in the first sentence of this 
        subsection.''; and
            (2) in the sentence that begins ``The provisions of'', by 
        striking ``section 8344'' and inserting ``sections 8344 and 
        8468''.

    (b) Section 101(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977 (2 
U.S.C. 61h-6(b)) is amended by striking all after ``(b)'' through ``to 
such position'' and inserting ``Any or all appointments under this 
section may be''.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61h-6 note.>> This section is 
effective on and after the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 5. (a) <<NOTE: 2 USC 61b.>> There is established the Senate 
Leader's Lecture Series (hereinafter referred to as the ``lecture 
series''). Expenses incurred in connection with the lecture series shall 
be paid from the appropriations account ``Secretary of the Senate'' 
within the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2434]]

contingent fund of the Senate and shall not exceed $30,000 in any fiscal 
year.

    (b) Payments for expenses in connection with the lecture series may 
cover expenses incurred by speakers, including travel, subsistence, and 
per diem, and the cost of receptions, including food, food related 
items, and hospitality.
    (c) Payments for expenses of the lecture series shall be made on 
vouchers approved by the Secretary of the Senate.
    (d) This section is effective on and after October 1, 
1997. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> 

    Sec. 6. <<NOTE: 2 USC 121b-1.>> (a) The Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate is authorized to appoint and fix the 
compensation of such employees as may be necessary to operate Senate 
Hair Care Services.

    (b) There is established in the Treasury of the United States within 
the contingent fund of the Senate a revolving fund to be known as the 
Senate Hair Care Services Revolving Fund (hereafter in this section 
referred to as the ``revolving fund'').
    (c)(1) All moneys received by Senate Hair Care Services from fees 
for services or from any other source shall be deposited in the 
revolving fund.
    (2) Moneys in the revolving fund shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation for disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate--
            (A) for the payment of salaries and agency contributions of 
        employees of Senate Hair Care Services; and
            (B) for necessary supplies, equipment, and other expenses of 
        Senate Hair Care Services.

    (d) Disbursements from the revolving fund shall be made upon 
vouchers signed by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, 
except that vouchers shall not be required for the disbursement of 
salaries paid at an annual rate.
    (e) At the direction of the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
the Secretary of the Senate shall withdraw from the revolving fund and 
deposit in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts 
all moneys in the revolving fund that the Committee may determine are in 
excess of the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of Senate Hair 
Care Services.
    (f ) The Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate are 
authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry 
out the provisions of this section, subject to the approval of the 
Committee on Rules and Administration.
    (g) There is transferred to the revolving fund established by this 
section any unobligated balance in the fund established by section 106 
of Public Law 94-440 on the effective date of this section.
    (h)(1) <<NOTE: 2 USC 121a.>> Section 106 of Public Law 94-440 is 
repealed.

    (2) <<NOTE: 2 USC 121b.>> Section 10(a) of Public Law 100-458 is 
repealed.

    (i) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall be effective on and 
after October 1, 1998, or 30 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, whichever is later.

    Sec. 7. The amount available to the Committee on Rules and 
Administration for expenses under section 16(c) of Senate Resolution 54, 
agreed to February 13, 1997, is increased by $150,000.
    Sec. 8. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61-1.>> Effective on and after 
October 1, 1998, each of the dollar amounts contained in the table under 
section 105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 
(2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in 
that table,

[[Page 112 STAT. 2435]]

as increased by section 5 of Public Law 105-55, increased by an 
additional $50,000 each.

    Sec. 9. (a) With the prior written approval of the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate may enter into agreements with public or 
private parties for the purpose of demonstrating the use of alternative 
fuel vehicles (as defined in section 301(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102-486)) in Senate fleet operations. Any such 
agreement may also provide for necessary fueling infrastructure in 
connection with the alternative fuel vehicles.
    (b) A vehicle may be made available under subsection (a) for a 
period not exceeding 90 days.
    Sec. 10. <<NOTE: 2 USC 72d.>> (a) The Committee on Appropriations is 
authorized in its discretion--
            (1) to hold hearings, report such hearings, and make 
        investigations as authorized by paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the 
        Standing Rules of the Senate;
            (2) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (3) to employ personnel;
            (4) with the prior consent of the Government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration 
        to use, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, the services 
        of personnel of any such department or agency;
            (5) to procure the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 and Senate Resolution 
        140, agreed to May 14, 1975); and
            (6) to provide for the training of the professional staff of 
        such committee (under procedures specified by section 202( j) of 
        such Act).

    (b) Senate Resolution 54, agreed to February 13, 1997, is amended by 
striking section 4.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall be effective on and 
after October 1, 1998, or the date of enactment of this Act, whichever 
is later.

    Sec. 11. <<NOTE: 2 USC 72d-1.>> (a)(1) The Chairman of the 
Appropriations Committee of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at 
his or her election transfer funds from the appropriation account for 
salaries for the Appropriations Committee of the Senate, to the account, 
within the contingent fund of the Senate, from which expenses are 
payable for such committee.

    (2) The Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the Senate may, 
during any fiscal year, at his or her election transfer funds from the 
appropriation account for expenses, within the contingent fund of the 
Senate, for the Appropriations Committee of the Senate, to the account 
from which salaries are payable for such committee.
    (b) Any funds transferred under this section shall be--
            (1) available for expenditure by such committee in like 
        manner and for the same purposes as are other moneys which are 
        available for expenditure by such committee from the account to 
        which the funds were transferred; and
            (2) made at such time or times as the Chairman shall specify 
        in writing to the Senate Disbursing Office.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2436]]

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall take effect on 
October 1, 1998, and shall be effective with respect to fiscal years 
beginning on or after that date.

    Sec. 12. Use of Frequent Flyer Miles by Members of the Senate.--
Section 507(a) of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1436(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Notwithstanding '' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        notwithstanding''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Travel between the washington metropolitan area and a 
        home state.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any travel award 
        relating to air transportation for a Member of the Senate, the 
        spouse of that Member, or a son or daughter of that Member, 
        between the Washington metropolitan area and the State of that 
        Member.''.

    Sec. 13. Senate Resolution 286, 102d Congress, agreed to April 9, 
1992, is amended by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following:
``Fees established under this subsection for services received from the 
Attending Physician by a Senator or an officer of the Senate shall be 
equal to the fees for such services received by a member of the House of 
Representatives.''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

      Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For <<NOTE: Marcia S. Schiff.>> payment to Marcia S. Schiff, widow 
of Steven H. Schiff, late a Representative from the State of New Mexico, 
$136,700.

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$733,971,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $13,117,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,686,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,652,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,675,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,043,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,020,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $397,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $738,000; Republican Conference, $1,199,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,295,000; Democratic Caucus, $642,000; 
nine minority employees, $1,190,000; training and program development--
majority, $290,000; and training and program development--minority, 
$290,000.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2437]]

                  Members' Representational Allowances

                 Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official

                 Expenses of Members, and Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $385,279,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $89,743,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2000.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$19,373,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2000.

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $89,991,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $3,500, of which not 
more than $2,500 is for the Family Room, for official representation and 
reception expenses, $15,365,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages, and including not more than $750 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $3,501,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, $57,211,000, including 
$24,282,000 for salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of 
House Information Resources, of which $23,074,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That of the amount provided for House Information Resources, 
$7,130,000 shall be for net expenses of telecommunications: Provided 
further, That House Information Resources is authorized to receive 
reimbursement from Members of the House of Representatives and other 
governmental entities for services provided and such reimbursement shall 
be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $3,953,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $840,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $133,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, $1,106,000; for salaries and expenses 
of
the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $1,912,000;
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel

[[Page 112 STAT. 2438]]

 of the House, $4,980,000; for salaries and expenses of the Corrections 
Calendar Office, $799,000; and for other authorized employees, $191,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $136,468,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $2,575,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $132,832,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of 
House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
heirs of deceased employees of the House, $651,000.

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Section 2(a) of House Resolution 611, Ninety-seventh 
Congress, agreed to November 30, 1982, as enacted into permanent law by 
section 127 of Public Law 97-377 (2 U.S.C. 88b-3), is amended--
            (1) by adding ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (2) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting a period; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (3).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 88b-3 note.>> The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to the One Hundred Sixth 
Congress and each succeeding Congress.

    Sec. 102. Subsection (b) of the first section of House Resolution 
1047, Ninety-fifth Congress, agreed to April 4, 1978, as enacted into 
permanent law by section 111 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1979 (2 U.S.C. 130-1(b)), is amended by striking ``$55,000'' and 
inserting ``$80,000''.
    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-8.>> (a) There is hereby established an 
account in the House of Representatives for purposes of carrying out 
training and program development activities of the Republican Conference 
and the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee.

    (b) Subject to the allocation described in subsection (c), funds in 
the account established under subsection (a) shall be paid--
            (1) for activities of the Republican Conference in such 
        amounts, at such times, and under such terms and conditions as 
        the Speaker of the House of Representatives may direct; and
            (2) for activities of the Democratic Steering and Policy 
        Committee in such amounts, at such times, and under such terms 
        and conditions as the Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives may direct.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2439]]

    (c) Of the total amount in the account established under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) 50 percent shall be allocated to the Speaker for 
        payments for activities of the Republican Conference; and
            (2) 50 percent shall be allocated to the Minority Leader for 
        payments for activities of the Democratic Steering and Policy 
        Committee.

    (d) There are authorized to be appropriated to the account under 
this section for fiscal year 1999 and each succeeding fiscal year such 
sums as may be necessary for training and program development activities 
of the Republican Conference and the Democratic Steering and Policy 
Committee during the fiscal year.
    Sec. 104. (a) Section 311(e)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 59(e)(2)) <<NOTE: 2 USC 59e.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by adding ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (B);
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        a period; and
            (3) by striking subparagraph (D).

    (b) Section 311(e) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 59e(e)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (4).
    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: 2 USC 104b note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or any other rule or regulation, any information on 
payments made by the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct of the 
House of Representatives to an individual for attendance as a witness 
before the Committee in executive session during a Congress shall be 
reported not later than the second semiannual report filed under section 
106 of the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical 
Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 104b) in the following Congress.

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: 2 USC 112f.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Committee on House Oversight may prescribe by 
regulation appropriate conditions for the incidental use, for other than 
official business, of equipment and supplies owned or leased by, or the 
cost of which is reimbursed by, the House of Representatives.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The authority of the Committee on House 
Oversight to prescribe regulations pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 1999 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-9.>> (a) The Speaker, Majority Leader, 
and Minority Leader of the House of Representatives are each authorized 
to appoint and fix the compensation of one consultant, on a temporary or 
intermittent basis, at a daily rate of compensation not in excess of the 
per diem equivalent of the highest gross rate of annual compensation 
which may be paid to employees of a standing committee of the House.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 1999 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 108. Any amount appropriated in this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 1999. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for such 
fiscal year shall be deposited in the Treasury, to be used for deficit 
reduction.
    Sec. 109. <<NOTE: 2 USC 127b.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, official resources may be used during a fiscal year 
(beginning with fiscal year 1999), in accordance with regulations of the 
Committee on House Oversight, to reimburse a Member, officer, or 
employee of the House of Representatives for the ordinary and necessary

[[Page 112 STAT. 2440]]

expenses related to the official use of telecommunications lines in the 
residence of the Member, officer, or employee.

    (b) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> The Committee on House Oversight shall 
promulgate such regulations as are necessary to implement this section.

    Sec. 110. <<NOTE: 40 USC 175 note.>> Section 121 of Public Law 104-
99 is amended in subsection (b)(2)--
            (1) by striking in subparagraph (B) ``and'' after the 
        semicolon; and
            (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (C) 
        and inserting ``; and'' therefor; and
            (3) by adding after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) reimbursement of expenses incurred by the 
                Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
                Representatives to cover the costs of furnishings and 
                furniture to accommodate the needs of the House of 
                Representatives Child Care 
                Center.''.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,096,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$202,000, together with an additional amount of $150,000 if there is 
enacted into law legislation which transfers the legislative and 
oversight responsibilities of the Joint Committee on Printing to the 
Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives: Provided, 
That such additional amount shall be transferred to the Committee on 
House Oversight of the House of Representatives and made available 
beginning January 1, 1999: Provided further, That all such funds are to 
be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$5,965,400, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each not 
to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $893,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
Navy for expenses

[[Page 112 STAT. 2441]]

incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the Office of the Attending 
Physician, which shall be advanced and credited to the applicable 
appropriation or appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, 
and other expenses are payable and shall be available for all the 
purposes thereof, $1,415,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $76,844,000, of which $37,037,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House, and $39,807,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and $85 per month for 
extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board by an employee of 
the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
designated by the Chairman of the Board, $6,237,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 1999 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
the Treasury from funds available to the Department of the Treasury.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 111. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1999 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2442]]

            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to 
        the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $2,195,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than forty-three individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide 
Board is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than ten additional individuals for not more than six months each, for 
the Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the One Hundred Fifth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,086,000.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $25,671,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2443]]

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of the Capitol and 
electrical substations of the Senate and House office buildings under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, including furnishings 
and office equipment, including not more than $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and not to exceed $20,000 for 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $43,683,000, of which 
$8,175,000 shall remain available until expended.

                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $6,046,000, of which $525,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$54,144,000, of which $14,615,000 shall remain available until expended.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $42,139,000, of which $11,449,000 shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the total amount 
provided under this heading, not less than $100,000 shall be used 
exclusively for waste recycling programs.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the

[[Page 112 STAT. 2444]]

Union Station complex, the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building 
and the Folger Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced 
or reimbursed upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts 
so received shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $38,174,000, of which $5,100,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not more than $4,000,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 1999.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$67,124,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Oversight of the House 
of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate: Provided further, That, <<NOTE: 2 USC 166 
note.>> notwithstanding any other provision of law, the compensation of 
the Director of the Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, 
shall be at an annual rate which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
pay for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of title 5, United States Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; 
and printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$74,465,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year limitation 
under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of the funds 
appropriated or made available under this Act or any other Act for 
printing and binding and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print

[[Page 112 STAT. 2445]]

a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning 
on the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 112. (a) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 
(Public Law 105-55; 111 Stat. 1191) is amended in the item relating to 
``congressional printing and binding'' under the heading ``GOVERNMENT 
PRINTING OFFICE'' by striking ``$81,669,000'' and all that follows 
through ``Provided,'' and inserting the following: ``$70,652,000: 
Provided, That an additional amount of not more than $11,017,000 may be 
derived by transfer from the Government Printing Office revolving fund 
under section 309 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further,''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1998.

    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1999''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,052,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 201. Section 307E(b) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1989 (40 U.S.C. 216c(b)) is amended by--
            (1) redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) inserting after paragraph (1) the following:

    ``(2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any portion of the 
account designated in paragraph (1) that, as determined by the 
Architect, is not required to meet current expenses. Each investment 
shall be made in an interest-bearing obligation of the United States or 
an obligation guaranteed both as to principal and interest by the United 
States that, as determined by the Architect, has a maturity date 
suitable for the purposes of the account. The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall credit interest earned on the obligations to the account.''.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special

[[Page 112 STAT. 2446]]

clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $238,373,000, of which not 
more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 1999, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from collections 
during fiscal year 1999 and shall remain available until expended for 
the development and maintenance of an international legal information 
database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the Library of 
Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount 
by which collections are less than the $6,850,000: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $10,119,000 is to remain 
available until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, 
newspapers, and all other materials including subscriptions for 
bibliographic services for the Library, including $40,000 to be 
available solely for the purchase, when specifically approved by the 
Librarian, of special and unique materials for additions to the 
collections: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$3,544,000 is to remain available until expended for the acquisition and 
partial support for implementation of an Integrated Library System 
(ILS): Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$2,000,000 is to remain available until expended for a project to 
digitize collections for the Meeting of the Frontiers United States-
Russian digital library: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $250,000 is to remain available until expended for the 
Library's efforts in connection with the commemoration of the 
Bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark expedition.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $34,891,000, of which not more than $16,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 1999 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d): 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,170,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 1999 under 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $21,170,000: Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an

[[Page 112 STAT. 2447]]

``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not more than $2,250 may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for activities of the International Copyright 
Institute.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $46,824,000, of which 
$13,744,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and repair of furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, 
$4,448,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 202. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $194,290, of 
which $58,100 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 203. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
            (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
            (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
        work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
        the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a)(10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 204. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead 
costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies under 
the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be used to employ 
more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations 
        Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or

[[Page 112 STAT. 2448]]

                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 205. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 206. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of 
Congress in this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 207. (a) For fiscal year 1999, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $99,765,100.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the legislative 
branch.
    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective October 1, 1998, the 
Library of Congress is authorized to receive funds from participants in 
and sponsors of an international legal information database led by the 
Law Library of Congress, and to credit any such funds to the Library of 
Congress appropriations, up to the extent authorized in appropriations 
Acts, for the development and maintenance of the database.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         Congressional Cemetery

    For a grant for the perpetual care and maintenance of the historic 
Congressional Cemetery, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$12,672,000, of which $910,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 209. <<NOTE: 2 USC 51 note.>> (a) Grant for Care and 
Maintenance of Congressional Cemetery.--In order to assist in the 
perpetual care and maintenance of the historic Congressional Cemetery, 
the Architect of the Capitol shall make a grant to the National Trust 
for Historic Preservation (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
``National Trust'') in accordance with an agreement entered into by the 
Architect of the Capitol with the National Trust and the Association for 
the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery (hereafter in this 
section referred to as the ``Association'') which contains the terms and 
conditions described in subsection (b) and such other provisions as the 
Architect may deem necessary or desirable

[[Page 112 STAT. 2449]]

for the implementation of this section or for the protection of the 
interests of the Federal Government.

    (b) Terms and Conditions of Agreement.--The terms and conditions 
described in this subsection are as follows:
            (1) Upon receipt of the amounts provided under the grant 
        made under subsection (a), the National Trust shall deposit the 
        amounts in a permanently restricted account in its endowment and 
        shall administer, invest, and manage such grant funds in the 
        same manner as other National Trust endowment funds.
            (2) The National Trust shall make distributions to the 
        Association from the amounts deposited in the endowment pursuant 
        to paragraph (1), in accordance with its regularly established 
        spending rate, for the care and maintenance of the Cemetery 
        (other than the cost of personnel), except that the National 
        Trust may only make such distributions incrementally and 
        proportionately upon receipt by the National Trust of 
        contributions from the Association which incrementally match the 
        amounts provided under the grant made under subsection (a) and 
        which are to be added to the permanently restricted account 
        described in paragraph (1).
            (3) The Association shall use such distributions from the 
        endowment and the match for the care and maintenance of 
        Congressional Cemetery, except that the Association may not use 
        such distributions for nonroutine restoration or capital 
        projects.
            (4) <<NOTE: Records.>> The Association, or any successor 
        thereto, shall maintain adequate records and accounts of all 
        financial transactions and operations carried out with such 
        distributions, and such records shall be available at all times 
        for audit and investigation by the Architect of the Capitol and 
        the Comptroller General.

    (c) No Title in United States.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to vest title to the Congressional Cemetery in the United 
States.
    Sec. 210. For fiscal year 1999, the amount available for expenditure 
by the Architect of the Capitol from the fund established under section 
4 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize acquisition of certain real 
property for the Library of Congress, and for other purposes'', approved 
December 15, 1997 (Public Law 105-144; 111 Stat. 2688), may not exceed 
$2,500,000.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,264,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $150,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other

[[Page 112 STAT. 2450]]

related publications for 1997 and 1998 to depository and other 
designated libraries.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or 
purchase of not more than twelve passenger motor vehicles: Provided 
further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to 
carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of 
the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the heading ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents, salaries and expenses'' together may not be available for the 
full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,383 workyears: Provided 
further, That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
shall not be used to administer any flexible or compressed work schedule 
which applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade or 
level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That 
expenses for attendance at meetings shall not exceed $75,000.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; 
benefits comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6), and 
901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), 
and 4081(8)); and under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller 
General of the United States, rental of living quarters in foreign 
countries, <<NOTE: 31 USC 9105 note.>> $354,268,000: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to the 
Comptroller General pursuant to that section shall be deposited to the 
appropriation of the General Accounting Office then available and remain 
available until expended, and not more than $2,000,000

[[Page 112 STAT. 2451]]

of such funds shall be available for use in fiscal year 1999: Provided 
further, That this appropriation and appropriations for administrative 
expenses of any other department or agency which is a member of the 
Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) shall be 
available to finance an appropriate share of JFMIP costs as determined 
by the JFMIP, including the salary of the Executive Director and 
secretarial support: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants. Payments hereunder to either Forum or the JFMIP may be 
credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, 
including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the 
International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 211. The unexpended balance appropriated in Public Law 104-208 
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for carrying out section 
301(l) of Public Law 104-191 is transferred to the ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' appropriation of Public Law 105-55 for necessary expenses of 
the General Accounting Office, to remain available until September 30, 
1998.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Oversight and for the Senate issued by the 
Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond fiscal year 1999 unless expressly so 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in 
this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available

[[Page 112 STAT. 2452]]

for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $1,500.
    Sec. 308. (a) Severance Pay for Employees of the Architect of the 
Capitol.--Section 5595(a) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by 
section 310 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(F), by striking ``, but only with 
        respect to the United States Senate Restaurants''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), in clause (viii) in the matter 
        following subparagraph (B), by striking ``of the United States 
        Senate Restaurants''.

    (b) Early Retirement for Employees of the Architect of the 
Capitol.--Section 310(b)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1998 (40 U.S.C. 174j-1(b)(1)) <<NOTE: 40 USC 174j-1 note.>> is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``of the United States Senate Restaurants''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``1999;'' and inserting 
        ``1999 (or, in the case of an individual who is not an employee 
        of the United States Senate Restaurants, on or after the date of 
        the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999 
        and before October 1, 2001);''.

    (c) Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments for 
Employees of the Architect of the Capitol.--Section 310(c) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 (40 U.S.C. 174j-
1(c)) <<NOTE: 40 USC 174j-1 note.>> is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of the United States 
        Senate Restaurants''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 2453]]

            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``not more than 50'';
                    (B) by striking ``1999'' and inserting ``1999 (or, 
                in the case of an individual who is not an employee of 
                the United States Senate Restaurants, on or after the 
                date of the enactment of the Legislative Branch 
                Appropriations Act, 1999 and before October 1, 2001)''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
                ``The number of employees of the United States Senate 
                Restaurants to whom voluntary separation incentive 
                payments may be offered under the program established 
                under the previous sentence may not exceed 50.'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (7), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4)(A) No voluntary separation incentive payment may be 
        paid under this section on or after the date of enactment of the 
        Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999, unless the 
        Architect of the Capitol submits a plan described under 
        subparagraph (B) to the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
        the Senate and the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
        Representatives and such committees approve the plan.
            ``(B) The plan referred to under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include--
                    ``(i) the positions and functions to be reduced or 
                eliminated, identified by organizational unit, 
                occupational category, and pay or grade level;
                    ``(ii) the number and amounts of voluntary 
                separation incentive payments to be offered; and
                    ``(iii) a description of how the Architect of the 
                Capitol will operate without the eliminated positions 
                and functions.
            ``(5)(A) In addition to any other payments which the 
        Architect of the Capitol is required to make under subchapter 
        III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, the Architect 
        of the Capitol shall remit to the Office of Personnel Management 
        for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit 
        of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to 15 percent of the final basic pay of each employee who 
        is covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5, United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation 
        incentive has been paid under this section. This subparagraph 
        shall not apply to any employee of the United States Senate 
        Restaurants.
            ``(B) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term `final 
        basic pay', with respect to an employee--
                    ``(i) means the total amount of basic pay which 
                would be payable for a year of service by such employee, 
                computed using the employee's final rate of basic pay; 
                and
                    ``(ii) includes an appropriate adjustment to the 
                amount computed under clause (i) if the employee is last 
                serving on other than a full-time basis.''.

    (d) Retraining, Job Placement, and Counseling Services for Employees 
of the Architect of the Capitol.--Section 310(e) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 <<NOTE: 40 USC 174j-1 note.>> (40 U.S.C. 
174j-1(e)) is amended--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2454]]

            (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``of the United States 
        Senate Restaurants''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``the United States 
        Senate Restaurants of ''.

    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: 44 USC 305 note.>> (a) Severance Pay.--Section 
5595 of title 5, United States Code, as amended by section 310 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1998, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in clause (viii), by striking ``or'' after the 
                semicolon; and
                    (B) by redesignating clause (ix) as clause (x) and 
                inserting after clause (viii) the following new clause:
                          ``(ix) an employee of the Government Printing 
                      Office, who is employed on a temporary when 
                      actually employed basis; or''; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by adding at the end the following: 
        ``The Public Printer may prescribe regulations to effect the 
        application and operation of this section to the agency 
        specified in subsection (a)(1)(G) of this section.''.

    (b) Early <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Retirement.--(1) This subsection 
applies to an employee of the Government Printing Office who--
            (A) voluntarily separates from service on or after the date 
        of enactment of this Act and before October 1, 2001; and
            (B) on such date of separation--
                    (i) has completed 25 years of service as defined 
                under section 8331(12) or 8401(26) of title 5, United 
                States Code; or
                    (ii) has completed 20 years of such service and is 
                at least 50 years of age.

    (2) Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, 
United States Code, an employee described under paragraph (1) is 
entitled to an annuity which shall be computed consistent with the 
provisions of law applicable to annuities under section 8336(d) or 
8414(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--(1) In this 
subsection, the term ``employee'' means an employee of the Government 
Printing Office, serving without limitation, who has been currently 
employed for a continuous period of at least 12 months, except that such 
term shall not include--
            (A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 
        83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or another 
        retirement system for employees of the Government;
            (B) an employee having a disability on the basis of which 
        such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement 
        under any of the retirement systems referred to in subparagraph 
        (A); or
            (C) an employee who is employed on a temporary when actually 
        employed basis.

    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in order to avoid or 
minimize the need for involuntary separations due to a reduction in 
force, reorganization, transfer of function, or other similar action 
affecting the agency, the Public Printer shall establish a program under 
which voluntary separation incentive payments may be offered to 
encourage eligible employees to separate from service voluntarily 
(whether by retirement or resignation) during the period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of this Act through September 30, 2001.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2455]]

    (3) Such voluntary separation incentive payments shall be paid in 
accordance with the provisions of section 5597(d) of title 5, United 
States Code. Any such payment shall not be a basis of payment, and shall 
not be included in the computation, of any other type of Government 
benefit.
    (4)(A) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than January 15, 1999, the 
Public Printer shall submit a plan described under subparagraph (C) to 
the Joint Committee on Printing (or any applicable successor 
committees).

    (B) No voluntary separation incentive payment may be paid under this 
section unless the Public Printer submits a plan described under 
subparagraph (C) to the Joint Committee on Printing (or any applicable 
successor committees) and the Joint Committee on Printing approves the 
plan (or such successor committees approve the plan).
    (C) The plan referred to under subparagraph (B) shall include--
            (i) the positions and functions to be reduced or eliminated, 
        identified by organizational unit, occupational category, and 
        pay or grade level;
            (ii) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
        incentive payments to be offered; and
            (iii) a description of how the Government Printing Office 
        will operate without the eliminated positions and functions.

    (5)(A) In addition to any other payments which the Public Printer is 
required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United 
States Code, the Public Printer shall remit to the Office of Personnel 
Management for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the 
credit of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
equal to 15 percent of the final basic pay of each employee who is 
covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, 
United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation incentive has been 
paid under this section.
    (B) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term ``final basic pay'', 
with respect to an employee--
            (i) means the total amount of basic pay which would be 
        payable for a year of service by such employee, computed using 
        the employee's final rate of basic pay; and
            (ii) includes an appropriate adjustment to the amount 
        computed under clause (i) if the employee is last serving on 
        other than a full-time basis.

    (6)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), an employee who has received a 
voluntary separation incentive payment under this section and accepts 
employment with the Government of the United States within 5 years after 
the date of the separation on which the payment is based shall be 
required to repay the entire amount of the incentive payment to the 
agency that paid the incentive payment.
    (B)(i) If the employment is with an Executive agency (as defined by 
section 105 of title 5, United States Code), the Director of the Office 
of Personnel Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, 
waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique 
abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the 
position.
    (ii) If the employment is with an entity in the legislative branch, 
the head of the entity or the appointing official may waive the 
repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
the only qualified applicant available for the position.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2456]]

    (iii) If the employment is with the judicial branch, the Director of 
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may waive the 
repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
the only qualified applicant available for the position.
    (C) For purposes of subparagraph (A) (but not subparagraph (B)), the 
term ``employment'' includes employment under a personal services 
contract with the United States.
    (7) <<NOTE: Deadline. Regulations.>> Not later than January 15, 
1999, the Public Printer shall prescribe regulations to carry out this 
subsection.

    (d) Retraining, Job Placement, and Counseling Services.--(1) In this 
subsection, the term ``employee''--
            (A) means an employee of the Government Printing Office; and
            (B) shall not include--
                    (i) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of 
                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, 
                or another retirement system for employees of the 
                Government; or
                    (ii) an employee who is employed on a temporary when 
                actually employed basis.

    (2) The Public Printer may establish a program to provide 
retraining, job placement, and counseling services to employees and 
former employees.
    (3) A former employee may not participate in a program 
established under this subsection, if--
            (A) the former employee was separated from service with the 
        Government Printing Office for more than 1 year; or
            (B) the separation was by removal for cause on charges of 
        misconduct or delinquency.

    (4) Retraining costs for the program established under this 
subsection may not exceed $5,000 for each employee or former employee.
    (e) Administrative Provisions.--(1) The Public Printer--
            (A) may use employees of the Government Printing Office to 
        establish and administer programs and carry out the provisions 
        of this section; and
            (B) may procure temporary and intermittent services under 
        section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, to carry out 
        such provisions--
                    (i) not subject to the 1 year of service limitation 
                under such section 3109(b); and
                    (ii) at rates for individuals which do not exceed 
                the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
                prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
                section 5316 of such title.

    (2) Funds to carry out subsections (a) and (c) may be expended only 
from funds available for the basic pay of the employee who is receiving 
the applicable payment.
    (3) Funds to carry out subsection (d) may be expended from any funds 
made available to the Public Printer.
    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: 40 USC 166i.>> The Architect of the Capitol--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> shall develop and implement a cost-
        effective energy conservation strategy for all facilities 
        currently administered by Congress to achieve a net reduction of 
        20 percent in energy consumption on the congressional campus 
        compared to fiscal year 1991 consumption levels on a Btu-per-
        gross-square-foot basis not later than 7 years after the 
        enactment of this Act;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2457]]

            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> shall submit to Congress no later 
        than 10 months after the enactment of this Act a comprehensive 
        energy conservation and management plan which includes life 
        cycle costs methods to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
        proposed energy efficiency projects;
            (3) shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations in the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives a request for the amount 
        of appropriations necessary to carry out this section;
            (4) <<NOTE: Reports.>> shall present to Congress annually a 
        report on congressional energy management and conservation 
        programs which details energy expenditures for each facility, 
        energy management and conservation projects, and future 
        priorities to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 
        section;
            (5) shall perform energy surveys of all congressional 
        buildings and update such surveys as needed;
            (6) shall use such surveys to determine the cost and payback 
        period of energy and water conservation measures likely to 
        achieve the required energy consumption levels;
            (7) shall install energy and water conservation measures 
        that will achieve the requirements through previously determined 
        life cycle cost methods and procedures;
            (8) may contract with nongovernmental entities and employ 
        private sector capital to finance energy conservation projects 
        and achieve energy consumption targets;
            (9) may develop innovative contracting methods that will 
        attract private sector funding for the installation of energy-
        efficient and renewable energy technology to meet the 
        requirements of this section;
            (10) may participate in the Department of Energy's Financing 
        Renewable Energy and Efficiency (FREE Savings) contracts program 
        for Federal Government facilities; and
            (11) shall produce information packages and ``how-to'' 
        guides for each Member and employing authority of the Congress 
        that detail simple, cost-effective methods to save energy and 
        taxpayer dollars.

    Sec. 311. <<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-6.>> Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 
is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``1998'' 
and inserting ``1999''.

    Sec. 312. American <<NOTE: 20 USC 2101 note.>> Folklife Center. (a) 
Findings and 
Purpose.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
                    (A) The American Folklife Center in the Library of 
                Congress was created by Congress in 1976, building on 
                the vast expertise and archival material existing at the 
                Library since 1928.
                    (B) As an instrumentality of the Congress, it is 
                fitting that the American Folklife Center should have a 
                direct and close relationship with the representatives 
                of the people, who are best able to oversee the ongoing 
                activities of the Center to preserve and promote the 
                cultural traditions of the people, and to ensure that 
                the resources of the Center be readily available to all 
                Americans.
                    (C) In over 20 years since its creation, the 
                American Folklife Center in the Library of Congress 
                has--
                          (i) increased the size of the Archive of Folk 
                      Culture from 500,000 to 1,500,000 multi-format 
                      ethnographic items;

[[Page 112 STAT. 2458]]

                          (ii) engaged in 15 cultural surveys and field 
                      documentation projects in all regions of the 
                      country;
                          (iii) provided publications, documentary 
                      equipment on loan, and advisory and reference 
                      service to persons and institutions in all 50 
                      States;
                          (iv) produced exhibitions and other 
                      educational programs on American Folklife at the 
                      Library and around the country;
                          (v) begun sharing its unique collections in 
                      digital form via the Internet; and
                          (vi) served as a national center for the 
                      professions of folklore, ethnomusicology, and 
                      cultural studies.
                    (D) Congress has consistently provided encouragement 
                and support of American Folklife as an appropriate 
                matter of concern to the Federal Government, passing 
                legislation to reauthorize the Center eight times since 
                its creation in 1976.
                    (E) The American Folklife Center is the only unit in 
                the Library of Congress which is not permanently 
                authorized. Since its establishment in 1976, the 
                Center's collections and activities have been fully and 
                successfully integrated into the Library of Congress. It 
                is useful to statutorily conform the American Folklife 
                Center with the rest of the Library of Congress.
            (2) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to authorize 
        permanently the American Folklife Center in the Library of 
        Congress to preserve and present American Folklife.

    (b) Reauthorization and Amendment.--
            (1) Board of trustees; appointment and compensation of 
        director; elimination of deputy director position.--Section 4 of 
        the American Folklife Preservation Act (20 U.S.C. 2103) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(b)(1) The Center shall be under the direction of a Board of 
Trustees. The Board shall be composed as follows:
            ``(A) four members appointed by the 
        President <<NOTE: President.>>  from among individuals who are 
        officials of Federal departments and agencies concerned with 
        some aspect of American Folklife traditions and arts;
            ``(B) four members appointed by the President pro tempore of 
        the Senate from among individuals from private life who are 
        widely recognized by virtue of their scholarship, experience, 
        creativity, or interest in American Folklife traditions and 
        arts, and four members appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives from among such individuals;
            ``(C) four members appointed by the Librarian of Congress 
        from among individuals who are widely recognized by virtue of 
        their scholarship, experience, creativity, or interest in 
        American folklife traditions and arts; and
            ``(D) seven ex officio members including--
                    ``(i) the Librarian of Congress;
                    ``(ii) the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution;
                    ``(iii) the Chairman of the National Endowment for 
                the Arts;
                    ``(iv) the Chairman of the National Endowment for 
                the Humanities;

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *Note: In the fifth line of Sec. 312(b)(1)(A), which begins ``(A) 
four members . . .'' the word ``President'' has been added after ``the'' 
and before ``from''.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 112 STAT. 2459]]

                    ``(v) the President of the American Folklore 
                Society;
                    ``(vi) the President of the Society for 
                Ethnomusicology; and
                    ``(vii) the Director of the Center.

    ``(2) In making appointments from private life under paragraph 
(1)(B) and (C), the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives, and the Librarian of Congress shall give 
due consideration to the appointment of individuals who collectively 
will provide appropriate diversity and regional balance on the Board. 
Not more than three of the members appointed by the President pro 
tempore of the Senate or by the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
may be affiliated with the same political party.
    ``(3) In making appointments under paragraph (1)(C), the Librarian 
of Congress shall include at least two members who direct or are members 
of the boards of major American folklife organizations other than the 
American Folklore Society and the Society for Ethnomusicology.'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(d) Members of the Board shall serve without pay, but members who 
are not regular full-time employees of the United States may, at the 
discretion of the Librarian, be reimbursed for the actual and necessary 
traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance 
of the duties of the Board.'';
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                          (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``currently 

                      serving'' after ``Board''; and
                          (ii) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(3) The Board shall meet at least once each fiscal year.'';
                    (D) by striking subsection (f ) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(f ) After consultation with the Board, the Librarian shall 
appoint the Director of the Center. The basic pay of the Director shall 
be at an annual rate that is not less than an amount equal to 120 
percent of the minimum rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 of the 
General Schedule nor more than an amount equal to the pay payable under 
level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United 
States Code.''; and
                    (E) in subsection (g)--
                          (i) in paragraph (1), by striking the 
                      paragraph designation; and
                          (ii) by striking paragraph (2).
            (2) Administrative provisions.--Section 7(a)(4) of the 
        American Folklife Preservation Act (20 U.S.C. 2106(a)(4)) is 
        amended by striking ``, but no individual so appointed shall 
        receive compensation in excess of the rate received by the 
        Deputy Director of the Center''.

    (c) Permanent Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 8 of the 
American Folklife Preservation Act (20 U.S.C. 2107) is amended to read 
as follows:

``SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Center to carry out 
this Act such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal year.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2460]]

    (d) Board <<NOTE: 20 USC 2103 note.>> of Trustees, Transition 
Period.--The term of office of members of the Board of Trustees 
appointed by the Librarian of Congress under the amendments made by 
subsection (b)(1) shall be 6 years, except that of the four members 
first appointed by the Librarian, one shall serve for a term of 2 years, 
two for a term of 4 years, and one for a term of 6 years.

    Sec. 313. <<NOTE: 5 USC 8147 note.>> For purposes of section 8147 of 
title 5, United States Code, the Government Printing Office is not 
considered an agency which is required by statute to submit an annual 
budget pursuant to or as provided by chapter 91 of title 31, United 
States Code, and is not required to pay an additional amount for the 
cost of administration.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999''.

    Approved October 21, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4112:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-595 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-734 (Comm. 
of Conference).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            June 25, considered and passed House.
            July 20, 21, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 24, House agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 25, Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>