[105th Congress Public Law 171]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ171.105]

                VIRGINIA LAND CONVEYANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS
Public Law 105-171
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to convey certain lands and 
          improvements in the State of Virginia, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 24, 1998 -  [H.R. 3226]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') to sell or exchange all 
or part of certain administrative sites and other lands in the George 
Washington National Forest and the Jefferson National Forest, and to use 
the value derived therefrom to acquire a replacement site and to 
construct on the site suitable improvements for national forest 
administrative purposes.

SEC. 2. SALE OR EXCHANGE OF LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may, under such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary may prescribe, sell or exchange any or all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the approximately 368 
acres contained in the following tracts of land situated in the State of 
Virginia:
            (1) Tract J-1665 (approximately 101 acres), as shown on the 
        map titled ``Natural Bridge Juvenile Corrections Center, 
        February 4, 1998''.
            (2) Tract G-1312a (approximately 214 acres), Tract G-1312b 
        (approximately 2 acres), and Tract G1312a-I (approximately 10 
        acres), as shown on the plat titled ``George Washington National 
        Forest, Alleghany Construction Company, (1312a,-I,b), Alleghany 
        County, Virginia, June 1936''.
            (3) Tract G-1709 (approximately 23 acres), as shown on the 
        plat titled ``James C. Doyle, Alleghany County, Virginia, April 
        13, 1993''.
            (4) Tract G-1360 (consisting of Lots 31 and 32; 
        approximately .29 acres), Tract G-1361 (consisting of Lots 29 
        and 30; approximately .29 acres), Tract G-1362 (consisting of 
        Lots 22, 23, and 24; approximately .43 acres), and Tract G-1363 
        (consisting of Lot 21; approximately .14 acres), as shown on the 
        plat titled ``Dry River Road, George Washington National Forest, 
        Warehouse Site, Bridgewater, Rockingham County, 
        Virginia, July 1936''.
            (5) Tract G-1524 (consisting of Lot 13; approximately .13 
        acres), as shown on the plat titled ``Vertie E. Beery Tract, 
        Rockingham County, Virginia, February 3, 1966''.
            (6) Tract G-1525 (consisting of Lots 11 and 12; 
        approximately .26 acres), as shown on the plat titled ``Charles 
        F. Simmons Tract 1525, Rockingham County, Virginia, February 3, 
        1966''.
            (7) Tract G-1486 (consisting of Lots 14, 15, and 16; 
        approximately .39 acres), as shown on the plat shown at Deed 
        Book 133, Page 341 Rockingham Virginia Records of the D.S. 
        Thomas Inc. Addition, Town of Bridgewater.
            (8) Tract N-123a (consisting of Lots 7 and 8; approximately 
        .287 acres), as shown on the plat titled ``George Washington 
        Forest. A.M. Rucker, Tract N-123a, Buena Vista, Virginia''.
            (9) Tract N-123b (consisting of Lots 5 and 6; approximately 
        .287 acres), as shown on the plat titled ``George Washington 
        Unit, A.M. Rucker, N-123b, Rockbridge County, Virginia, city of 
        Buena Vista, dated 1942''.
            (10) Tract G-1417 (approximately 1.2 acres), as shown on the 
        plat titled ``George Washington Unit, R.A. Warren, Tracts (1417-
        1417a), Bath County, Virginia, May 1940''.
            (11) Tract G-1520 (approximately 1 acre), as shown on the 
        plat titled ``Samuel J. Snead Tract, Bath County, Virginia, 
        February 3, 1966''.
            (12) Tract G-1522a (approximately .65 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``Charles N. Loving Tract, Bath County, 
        Virginia, February 3, 1966''.
            (13) Tract G-1582 (approximately .86 acres), as shown on the 
        plat titled ``Willie I. Haynes Tract, Bath County, Virginia, 
        January 1974''.
            (14) Tract G-1582a (approximately .62 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``Willie I. Haynes, Bath County, Virginia, 
        January 1979''.
            (15) Tract G-1673 (approximately 1.69 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``Erwin S. Solomon Tract, Bath County, 
        Virginia, September 15, 1970''.
            (16) Tract J-1497 (approximately 2.66 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``James A. Williams, Tract 1497, January 24, 
        1990''.
            (17) Tract J-1652 (approximately 1.64 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``United States of America, Tract J-1652, 
        Buchanan Magisterial District, Botetourt County, Virginia, 
        September 4, 1996''.
            (18) Tract J-1653 (approximately 5.08 acres), as shown on 
        the plat titled ``United States of America, Tract J-1653, Peaks 
        Magisterial District, Bedford County, Virginia, November 4, 
        1996''.

The Secretary may acquire land, and existing or future administrative 
improvements, in consideration for the conveyance of the lands 
designated in this subsection.
    (b) Applicable Authorities.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
Act, any sale or exchange of all or a portion of the lands designated in 
subsection (a) shall be subject to existing laws, rules, and regulations 
applicable to the conveyance and acquisition of lands for National 
Forest System purposes.
    (c) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may accept cash equalization payments in excess of 25 
percent of the total value of the lands designated in subsection (a) 
from any exchange authorized by subsection (a).
    (d) Solicitations of Offers.--In carrying out this Act, the 
Secretary may use public or private solicitations of offers for sale or 
exchange on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe. 
The Secretary may reject any offer if the Secretary determines that the 
offer is not adequate or not in the public interest.

SEC. 3. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

    Any funds received by the Secretary through sale or by cash 
equalization from an exchange shall be deposited into the fund provided 
by the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a), commonly known as the 
Sisk Act, and shall be available for expenditure, upon appropriation, 
for--
            (1) the acquisition of lands, and interests in the lands, in 
        the State of Virginia; and
            (2) the acquisition or construction of administrative 
        improvements in connection with the George Washington and 
        Jefferson National Forests.

    Approved April 24, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3226:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Mar. 24, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 3, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>