[105th Congress Public Law 49]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ49.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 1166]]

Public Law 105-49
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the conveyance of a parcel of unused agricultural land in 
 Dos Palos, California, to the Dos Palos Ag Boosters for use as a farm 
              school. <<NOTE: Oct. 6, 1997 -  [H.R. 111]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, UNUSED AGRICULTURAL LAND, DOS PALOS, 
            CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Conveyance.--In accordance with the provisions of this section, 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the Dos Palos Ag Boosters 
of Dos Palos, California, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to a parcel of real property (including improvements 
thereon) held by the Secretary that consists of approximately 22 acres 
and is located at 18296 Elgin Avenue, Dos Palos, California, to be used 
as a farm school for the education and training of students and 
beginning farmers regarding farming. The conveyance shall be final with 
no future liability accruing to the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the transferee shall pay to the Secretary an amount 
equal to the fair market value of the parcel conveyed under subsection 
(a).
    (c) Alternative Transferee.--At the request of the Dos Palos Ag 
Boosters, the Secretary may make the conveyance under subsection (a) to 
the Dos Palos School District.
    (d) Determination of Fair Market Value and Property Description.--
The Secretary shall determine the fair market value of the parcel to be 
conveyed under subsection (a). The exact acreage and legal description 
of the parcel shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Secretary. The cost of any such survey shall be borne by the transferee.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

    Approved October 6, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 111:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-34 (Comm. on Agriculture).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Apr. 16, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 23, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>