[105th Congress Public Law 144]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ144.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 2667]]

Public Law 105-144
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize acquisition of certain real property for the Library of 
    Congress, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 15, 1997 -  [H.R. 
                                2979]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ACQUISITION OF FACILITY IN <<NOTE: 2 USC 141 note.>>  
            CULPEPER, VIRGINIA.

    (a) Acquisition.--The Architect of the Capitol may acquire on behalf 
of the United States Government by transfer of title, without 
reimbursement or transfer of funds, the following property:
            (1) Three parcels totaling approximately 41 acres, more or 
        less, located in Culpeper County, Virginia, and identified as 
        Culpeper County Tax Parcel Numbers 51-80B, 51-80C, and 51-80D, 
        further described as real estate (consisting of 15.949 acres) 
        conveyed to Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond by deed from 
        Russell H. Inskeep and Jean H. Inskeep, his wife, dated October 
        1, 1964, and recorded October 7, 1964, in the Clerk's Office, 
        Circuit Court of Culpeper County, Virginia, in Deed Book 177, 
        page 431, and real estate (consisting of 20.498 acres and 
        consisting of 4.502 acres) conveyed to Federal Reserve Bank of 
        Richmond by deed from Russell H. Inskeep and Jean H. Inskeep, 
        his wife, dated November 11, 1974, and recorded November 12, 
        1974, in the Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of Culpeper County, 
        Virginia, in Deed Book 247, page 246.
            (2) Improvements to such real property.

    (b) Uses.--Effective on the date on which the Architect of the 
Capitol acquires the property under subsection (a), such property shall 
be available to the Librarian of Congress for use as a national 
audiovisual conservation center.

SEC. 2. LIBRARY BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

    Section 11 of the Act entitled ``An Act relating the policing of the 
buildings of the Library of Congress'' approved August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 
167(j)), is <<NOTE: 2 USC 141 note, 167j.>>  amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) For the purposes of this Act, the term `Library of Congress 
buildings and grounds' shall include the following property:
            ``(1) Three parcels totaling approximately 41 acres, more or 
        less, located in Culpeper County, Virginia, and identified as 
        Culpeper County Tax Parcel Numbers 51-80B, 51-80C, and 51-80D, 
        further described as real estate (consisting of 15.949 acres) 
        conveyed to Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond by deed from 
        Russell H. Inskeep and Jean H. Inskeep, his wife, dated October 
        1, 1964, and recorded October 7, 1964, in the Clerk's

[[Page 111 STAT. 2668]]

        Office, Circuit Court of Culpeper County, Virginia, in Deed Book 
        177, page 431; and real estate (consisting of 20.498 acres and 
        consisting of 4.502 acres) conveyed to Federal Reserve Bank of 
        Richmond by deed from Russell H. Inskeep and Jean H. Inskeep, 
        his wife, dated November 11, 1974, and recorded November 12, 
        1974, in the Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of Culpeper County, 
        Virginia, in Deed Book 247, page 246.
            ``(2) Improvements to such real property.''.

SEC. 3. ACCEPTANCE OF <<NOTE: 2 USC 141 note.>>  TRANSFERRED GIFTS OR 
            TRUST FUNDS.

    Gifts or trust funds given to the Library or the Library of Congress 
Trust Fund Board for the structural and mechanical work and 
refurbishment of Library buildings and grounds specified in section 1 
shall be transferred to the Architect of the Capitol to be spent in 
accordance with the provisions of the first section of the Act of June 
29, 1922 (2 U.S.C. 141).

SEC. 4. FUND FOR <<NOTE: 2 USC 141 note.>>  TRANSFERRED FUNDS.

    There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund 
consisting of those gifts or trust funds transferred to the Architect of 
the Capitol under section 3. Upon prior approval of the Committee on 
House Oversight of the House of Representatives and Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate, amounts in the fund shall be available 
to the Architect of the Capitol, subject to appropriation, to remain 
available until expended, for the structural and mechanical work and 
refurbishment of Library buildings and grounds. Such funds shall be 
available for expenditure in fiscal year 1998, subject to the prior 
approval of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE <<NOTE: 2 USC 141 note.>>  DATE.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
provisions of this Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Special Rule for Inclusion of Property Within Library Buildings 
and Grounds.--The amendment made by section 2 shall take effect upon the 
acquisition by the Architect of the Capitol of the property described in 
section 1.

    Approved December 15, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2979:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Nov. 12, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>