[105th Congress Public Law 137]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ137.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 2640]]

Public Law 105-137
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code, to extend the 
     authorization of the aviation insurance program, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 2, 1997 -  [S. 1193]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Aviation 
Insurance Reauthorization Act of 1997.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT <<NOTE: 49 USC 40101 note.>> TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Aviation Insurance Reauthorization 
Act of 1997''.

SEC. 2. VALUATION OF AIRCRAFT.

    (a) General Authority for Insurance and Reinsurance.--Section 
44302(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``as 
determined by the Secretary.'' and inserting ``as determined by the 
Secretary in accordance with reasonable business practices in the 
commercial aviation insurance industry.''.
    (b) Limitation on Maximum Insured Amount.--Section 44306(c) of title 
49, United States Code, is amended by striking ``as determined by the 
Secretary.'' and inserting ``as determined by the Secretary in 
accordance with reasonable business practices in the commercial aviation 
insurance industry.''.

SEC. 3. EFFECT OF INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS.

    Section 44305(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``If such an agreement is countersigned 
by the President or the President's designee, the agreement shall 
constitute, for purposes of section 44302(b), a determination that 
continuation of the aircraft operations to which the agreement applies 
is necessary to carry out the foreign policy of the United States.''.

SEC. 4. ARBITRATION AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authorization of Binding Arbitration.--Section 44308(b)(1) of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the second 
sentence the following: ``Any such policy may authorize the binding 
arbitration of claims made thereunder in such manner as may be agreed to 
by the Secretary and any commercial insurer that may be responsible for 
any part of a loss to which such policy relates.''.
    (b) Authority to Pay Arbitration Award.--Section 44308(b)(2) of such 
title is amended--
             (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (A);
             (2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); 
        and
             (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:

[[Page 111 STAT. 2641]]

                     ``(B) pay the amount of a binding arbitration award 
                made under paragraph (1); and''.

SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 44310 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2002'' and inserting ``December 31, 
1998''.
    (b) Effective <<NOTE: 49 USC 44310 note.>> Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) takes effect on October 1, 1997.

SEC. 6. USE OF AIRCRAFT FOR DEMONSTRATION.

    Section 40102(a)(37)(A) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``or'' in clause (i);
            (2) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
            (3) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                          ``(ii) owned by the United States Government 
                      and operated by any person for purposes related to 
                      crew training, equipment development, or 
                      demonstration; or''.

    Approved December 2, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1193 (H.R. 2036):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-244 accompanying H.R. 2036 (Comm. on 
Transportation and Infrastructure).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-140 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Nov. 8, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 13, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>