[105th Congress Public Law 130]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ130.105]


[[Page 2551]]

              SURFACE TRANSPORTATION EXTENSION ACT OF 1997

[[Page 111 STAT. 2552]]

Public Law 105-130
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide a 6-month extension of highway, highway safety, and transit 
programs pending enactment of a law reauthorizing the Intermodal Surface 
   Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. <<NOTE: Dec. 1, 1997 -  [S. 
                                1519]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Surface Transportation Extension Act 
of 1997.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT <<NOTE: 23 USC 101 note.>> TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Surface Transportation Extension Act 
of 1997''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> ADVANCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation (referred to in 
this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall apportion funds made available 
under section 1003(d) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 to each State in the ratio that--
            (1) the State's total fiscal year 1997 obligation authority 
        for funds apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program; bears 
        to
            (2) all States' total fiscal year 1997 obligation authority 
        for funds apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program.

    (b) Programmatic Distributions.--
            (1) Programs.--Of the funds to be apportioned to each State 
        under subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the State 
        is apportioned an amount of the funds, determined under 
        paragraph (2), for the Interstate maintenance program, the 
        National Highway System, the bridge program, the surface 
        transportation program, the congestion mitigation and air 
        quality improvement program, minimum allocation under section 
        157 of title 23, United States Code, Interstate reimbursement 
        under section 160 of that title, the donor State bonus under 
        section 1013(c) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
        Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1940), hold harmless under 
        section 1015(a) of that Act (105 Stat. 1943), 90 percent of 
        payments adjustments under section 1015(b) of that Act (105 
        Stat. 1944), section 1015(c) of that Act (105 Stat. 1944), an 
        amount equal to the funds provided under sections 1103 through 
        1108 of that Act (105 Stat. 2027), and funding restoration under 
        section 202 of the National Highway System Designation Act of 
        1995 (109 Stat. 571).
            (2) In general.--The amount that each State shall be 
        apportioned under this subsection for each item referred to in 
        paragraph (1) shall be determined by multiplying--
                    (A) the amount apportioned to the State under 
                subsection (a); by

[[Page 111 STAT. 2553]]

                    (B) the ratio that--
                          (i) the amount of funds apportioned for the 
                      item, or allocated under sections 1103 through 
                      1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
                      Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027), to the 
                      State for fiscal year 1997; bears to
                          (ii) the total of the amount of funds 
                      apportioned for the items, and allocated under 
                      those sections, to the State for fiscal year 1997.
            (3) Use of funds.--Amounts apportioned to a State under 
        subsection (a) attributable to sections 1103 through 1108 of the 
        Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 shall 
        be available to the State for projects eligible for assistance 
        under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code.
            (4) Administration.--Funds authorized by the amendment made 
        by subsection (d) shall be administered as if they had been 
        apportioned, allocated, deducted, or set aside, as the case may 
        be, under title 23, United States Code; except that the 
        deduction under section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, 
        the set-asides under section 104(b)(1) of that title for the 
        territories and under section 104(f)(1) of that title for 
        metropolitan planning, and the expenditure required under 
        section 104(d)(1) of that title shall not apply to those funds.

    (c) Repayment From Future Apportionments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall reduce the amount that 
        would, but for this section, be apportioned to a State for 
        programs under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, for 
        fiscal year 1998 under a law reauthorizing the Federal-aid 
        highway program enacted after the date of enactment of this Act 
        by the amount that is apportioned to each State under subsection 
        (a) and section 5(f) for each such program.
            (2) Program category reconciliation.--The Secretary may 
        establish procedures under which funds apportioned under 
        subsection (a) for a program category for which funds are not 
        authorized under a law described in paragraph (1) may be 
        restored to the Federal-aid highway program.

    (d) Authorization of Contract Authority.--Section 1003 of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
1918) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Advance Authorizations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be available from the Highway 
        Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out 
        section 2(a) of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 1997 
        $5,500,000,000 for the period of November 16, 1997, through 
        January 31, 1998.
            ``(2) Special rule.--Funds apportioned under subsection (a) 
        shall be subject to any limitation on obligations for Federal-
        aid highways and highway safety construction programs.

    ``(e) Authorization of Contract Authority.--
            ``(1) Authorization.--Notwithstanding section 157(e) of 
        title 23, United States Code, there shall be available from the 
        Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to 
        carry out section 157 of title 23, United States Code, not to 
        exceed $15,460,000 for the period of January 26, 1998, through 
        January 31, 1998.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2554]]

            ``(2) Allocation.--The Secretary shall allocate the amounts 
        authorized under paragraph (1) to each State in the ratio that--
                    ``(A) the amount allocated to the State for fiscal 
                year 1997 under section 157 of that title; bears to
                    ``(B) the amounts allocated to all States for fiscal 
                year 1997 under section 157 of that title.

    ``(f) Contract Authority.--Funds authorized under subsections (d) 
and (e) shall be available for obligation in the same manner as if the 
funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States 
Code.''.
    (e) Limitation on Obligations.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall allocate to each 
        State an amount of obligation authority made available under the 
        Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-66) that is--
                    (A) equal to the greater of--
                          (i) the State's unobligated balance, as of 
                      October 1, 1997, of Federal-aid highway 
                      apportionments subject to any limitation on 
                      obligations; or
                          (ii) 50 percent of the State's total fiscal 
                      year 1997 obligation authority for funds 
                      apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program; 
                      but
                    (B) not greater than 75 percent of the State's total 
                fiscal year 1997 obligation authority for funds 
                apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program.
            (2) Limitation on amount.--The total of all allocations 
        under paragraph (1) shall not exceed $9,786,275,000.
            (3) Time period for obligations of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), a State shall not obligate any funds for any 
                Federal-aid highway program project after May 1, 1998, 
                until the earlier of the date of enactment of a 
                multiyear law reauthorizing the Federal-aid highway 
                program or July 1, 1998.
                    (B) Reobligation.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
                preclude the reobligation of previously obligated funds.
                    (C) Distribution of remaining obligation 
                authority.--On the earlier of the date of enactment of a 
                law described in subparagraph (A) or July 1, 1998, the 
                Secretary shall distribute to each State any remaining 
                amounts of obligation authority for Federal-aid highways 
                and highway safety construction programs by allocation 
                in accordance with section 310(a) of the Department of 
                Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
                1998 (Public Law 105-66).
                    (D) Contract authority.--No contract authority made 
                available to the States prior to July 1, 1998, shall be 
                obligated after that date until such time as a multiyear 
                law reauthorizing the Federal-aid highway program has 
                been enacted.
            (4) Treatment of obligations.--Any obligation of an 
        allocation of obligation authority made under this subsection 
        shall be considered to be an obligation for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 1998 
        for the purposes of the matter under the heading ``(limitation

[[Page 111 STAT. 2555]]

        on obligations)'' under the heading ``Federal-Aid Highways'' in 
        title I of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-66).

SEC. 3. TRANSFERS OF UNOBLIGATED APPORTIONMENTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to any other authority of a State to 
transfer funds, for fiscal year 1998, a State may transfer any funds 
apportioned to the State for any program under section 104 (including 
amounts apportioned under section 104(b)(3) or set aside or suballocated 
under section 133(d)), 144, or 402 of title 23, United States Code, 
before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act, granted to the 
State for any program under section 410 of that title before, on, or 
after such date of enactment, or allocated to the State for any program 
under chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, before, on, or after 
such date of enactment, that are subject to any limitation on 
obligations, and that are not obligated, to any other of those programs.
    (b) Treatment of Transferred Funds.--Any funds transferred to 
another program under subsection (a) shall be subject to the provisions 
of the program to which the funds are transferred, except that funds 
transferred to a program under section 133 (other than subsections 
(d)(1) and (d)(2)) of title 23, United States Code, shall not be subject 
to section 133(d) of that title.
    (c) Restoration of Apportionments.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of a law reauthorizing the Federal-aid highway program 
        enacted after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall restore any funds that a State transferred under 
        subsection (a) for any project not eligible for the funds but 
        for this section to the program category from which the funds 
        were transferred.
            (2) Program category reconciliation.--The Secretary may 
        establish procedures under which funds transferred under 
        subsection (a) from a program category for which funds are not 
        authorized may be restored to the Federal-aid highway, highway 
        safety, and motor carrier safety programs.
            (3) Limitation on statutory construction.--No provision of 
        law, except a statute enacted after the date of enactment of 
        this Act that expressly limits the application of this 
        subsection, shall impair the authority of the Secretary to 
        restore funds pursuant to this subsection.

    (d) Guidance.--The Secretary may issue guidance for use in carrying 
out this section.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    (a) Expenses of Federal Highway Administration.--
            (1) Authority to borrow.--
                    (A) From unobligated funds available for 
                discretionary allocations.--If unobligated balances of 
                funds deducted by the Secretary under section 104(a) of 
                title 23, United States Code, for administrative and 
                research expenses of the Federal-aid highway program are 
                insufficient to pay those expenses for fiscal year 1998, 
                the Secretary may borrow to pay those expenses not to 
                exceed $60,000,000 from unobligated funds available to 
                the Secretary for discretionary allocations.
                    (B) Requirement to reimburse.--Funds borrowed under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be reimbursed from amounts

[[Page 111 STAT. 2556]]

                made available to the Secretary under section 104(a) of 
                title 23, United States Code, as soon as practicable 
                after the date of enactment of a law reauthorizing the 
                Federal-aid highway program enacted after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Authorization of contract authority.--
                    (A) In general.--In addition to funds made available 
                under paragraph (1), there shall be available from the 
                Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
                for administrative and research expenses of the Federal-
                aid highway program $158,500,000 for fiscal year 1998.
                    (B) Contract authority.--Funds authorized under this 
                paragraph shall be available for obligation in the same 
                manner as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
                of title 23, United States Code, and shall be subject to 
                any limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways 
                and highway safety construction programs.
            (3) Use of certain administrative funds.--Section 104(i)(1) 
        of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, and 
        for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998,'' 
        after ``1997''.

    (b) Bureau of Transportation Statistics.--Section 6006 of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
2172) is amended--
            (1) <<NOTE: 49 USC 111.>> by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' 
        before ``Chapter I''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``1996, and'' and inserting 
                ``1996,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $12,500,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998''.

SEC. 5. OTHER FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Federal Lands Highways.--Section 1003(a)(6) of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1919) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``1992 and'' and inserting 
                ``1992,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $95,500,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``1995, and'' and inserting 
                ``1995,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``and $86,000,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by striking ``1995, and'' and inserting 
                ``1995,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $42,000,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998''.

    (b) National Recreational Trails Program.--Section 1003 of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
1918) (as amended by section 2(d)) <<NOTE: 23 USC 104.>> is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

    ``(e) National Recreational Trails Program.--Section 104(h) of title 
23, United States Code, is amended by inserting `and

[[Page 111 STAT. 2557]]

$7,500,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998' 
after `1997'.''.
    (c) Certain Allocated Programs.--
            (1) Highway use tax evasion.--Section 1040(f)(1) of the 
        Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 
        U.S.C. 101 note; 105 Stat. 1992) is amended in the first 
        sentence by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``and $2,500,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
        through March 31, 1998''.
            (2) Scenic byways program.--Section 1047(d) of the 
        Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 
        U.S.C. 101 note; 105 Stat. 1998) is amended in the first 
        sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``1994, and'' and inserting 
                ``1994,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $7,000,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998''.

    (d) Intelligent Transportation Systems.--Section 6058(b) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
2194) <<NOTE: 23 USC 307 note.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1992 and'' and inserting ``1992,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, and $47,000,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through 
        March 31, 1998''.

    (e) Surface Transportation Research.--
            (1) Operation lifesaver.--
                    (A) In general.--There shall be available from the 
                Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
                to carry out the operation lifesaver program under 
                section 104(d)(1) of title 23, United States Code, 
                $150,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through 
                March 31, 1998.
                    (B) Contract authority.--Funds authorized under this 
                paragraph shall be available for obligation in the same 
                manner as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
                of title 23, United States Code, and shall be subject to 
                any limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways 
                and highway safety construction programs.
            (2) Dwight david eisenhower transportation fellowship 
        program.--
                    (A) In general.--There shall be available from the 
                Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
                to carry out the Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation 
                Fellowship Program under section 307(a)(1)(C)(ii) of 
                title 23, United States Code, $1,000,000 for the period 
                of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998.
                    (B) Contract authority.--Funds authorized under this 
                paragraph shall be available for obligation in the same 
                manner as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
                of title 23, United States Code, and shall be subject to 
                any limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways 
                and highway safety construction programs.
            (3) National highway institute.--Section 321(f) of title 23, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following: ``There shall be available from the Highway Trust 
        Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out this 
        section $2,500,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through

[[Page 111 STAT. 2558]]

        March 31, 1998, and such funds shall be subject to any 
        limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs.''.
            (4) Education and training program.--Section 326(c) of title 
        23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following: ``There shall be available from the Highway Trust 
        Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out this 
        section $3,000,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through 
        March 31, 1998, and such funds shall be subject to any 
        limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs.''.

    (f) Metropolitan Planning.--
            (1) Authorization of contract authority.--
                    (A) In general.--There shall be available from the 
                Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
                to carry out section 134 of title 23, United States 
                Code, $78,500,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
                through March 31, 1998.
                    (B) Contract authority.--Funds authorized under this 
                paragraph shall be available for obligation in the same 
                manner as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
                of title 23, United States Code, and shall be subject to 
                any limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways 
                and highway safety construction programs.
            (2) Distribution of funds.--The Secretary shall distribute 
        funds authorized under paragraph (1) to the States in accordance 
        with section 104(f)(2) of title 23, United States Code.

    (g) Territories.--Section 1003 of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 1918) (as amended by 
subsection (b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Territories.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amounts deducted under 
        section 104(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, there shall 
        be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
        Transit Account) for the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands $15,000,000 
        for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds authorized under this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to any limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.

    (a) NHTSA Highway Safety Programs.--Section 2005(1) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
2079) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1996, and'' and inserting ``1996,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, and $83,000,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through 
        March 31, 1998''; and

    (b) Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures.--Section 410 of title 
23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``5'' and inserting ``6''; and

[[Page 111 STAT. 2559]]

                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and fifth'' and 
                inserting ``fifth, and sixth'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(2)(B), by striking ``two'' and 
        inserting ``3''; and
            (3) in the first sentence of subsection (j)--
                    (A) by striking ``1997, and'' and inserting 
                ``1997,''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following ``, and $12,500,000 for the period of October 
                1, 1997, through March 31, 1998''.

    (c) National Driver Register.--Section 30308(a) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1994, and'' and inserting ``1994,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``1997,'' the following: ``and 
        $1,855,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 
        1998,''.

SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PROGRAM.

    Section 31104(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraphs (1) through (5), by striking ``not more'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``Not more''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Not more than $45,000,000 for the period of October 1, 
        1997, through March 31, 1998.''.

SEC. 8. EXTENSION OF FEDERAL TRANSIT <<NOTE: 49 USC 5309, 5337, 
            5338.>> PROGRAMS.

    Title III of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991 (105 Stat. 2087-2140) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 3049. EXTENSION OF FEDERAL TRANSIT PROGRAMS FOR THE PERIOD OF 
            OCTOBER 1, 1997, THROUGH MARCH 31, 1998.

    ``(a) Allocating Amounts.--Section 5309(m)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting `, and for the period of October 1, 
1997, through March 31, 1998' after `1997'.
    ``(b) Apportionment of Appropriations for Fixed Guideway 
Modernization.--Section 5337 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (a), by inserting `and for the period of 
        October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998,' after `1997,'; and
            ``(2) by adding at the end the following:

    `` `(e) Special Rule for October 1, 1997, Through March 31, 1998.--
The Secretary shall determine the amount that each urbanized area is to 
be apportioned for fixed guideway modernization under this section on a 
pro rata basis to reflect the partial fiscal year 1998 funding made 
available by section 5338(b)(1)(F).'.
    ``(c) Authorizations.--Section 5338 of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended--
            ``(1) in subsection (a)--
                    ``(A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the 
                following:
            `` `(F) $1,328,400,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
        through March 31, 1998.'; and
                    ``(B) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the 
                following:
            `` `(F) $369,000,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
        through March 31, 1998.';
            ``(2) in subsection (b)(1), by adding at the end the 
        following:
            `` `(F) $1,131,600,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
        through March 31, 1998.';

[[Page 111 STAT. 2560]]

            ``(3) in subsection (c), by inserting `and not more than 
        $1,500,000 for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 31, 
        1998,' after `1997,';
            ``(4) in subsection (e), by inserting `and not more than 
        $3,000,000 is available from the Fund (except the Account) for 
        the Secretary for the period of October 1, 1997, through March 
        31, 1998,' after `1997,';
            ``(5) in subsection (h)(3), by inserting `and $3,000,000 is 
        available for section 5317 for the period of October 1, 1997, 
        through March 31, 1998' after `1997';
            ``(6) in subsection (j)(5)--
                    ``(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking `and' at the 
                end;
                    ``(B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting `; and'; and
                    ``(C) by adding at the end the following:
                    `` `(D) the lesser of $1,500,000 or an amount that 
                the Secretary determines is necessary is available to 
                carry out section 5318 for the period of October 1, 
                1997, through March 31, 1998.';
            ``(7) in subsection (k), by striking `or (e)' and inserting 
        `(e), or (m)'; and
            ``(8) by adding at the end the following:

    `` `(m) Section 5316 for the Period of October 1, 1997, Through 
March 31, 1998.--Not more than the following amounts may be appropriated 
to the Secretary from the Fund (except the Account) for the period of 
October 1, 1997, through March 31, 1998:
            `` `(1) $125,000 to carry out section 5316(a).
            `` `(2) $1,500,000 to carry out section 5316(b).
            `` `(3) $500,000 to carry out section 5316(c).
            `` `(4) $500,000 to carry out section 5316(d).
            `` `(5) $500,000 to carry out section 5316(e).'.''.

SEC. 9. EXTENSION OF TRUST FUNDS FUNDED BY HIGHWAY-RELATED TAXES.

    (a) Highway Trust Fund.--Section 9503 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>> (relating to Highway Trust Fund) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking ``1997'' and inserting 
                      ``1998''; and
                          (ii) by striking the last sentence and 
                      inserting the following new flush sentence:
        ``In determining the authorizations under the Acts referred to 
        in the preceding subparagraphs, such Acts shall be applied as in 
        effect on the date of the enactment of this sentence.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``1997'' and 
                inserting ``1998'';
                    (C) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking ``1997'' and 
                inserting ``1998''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (6)(E), by striking ``1997'' and 
                inserting ``1998''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``1997'' and inserting ``1998'', and
                    (B) by striking all that follows ``the enactment 
                of'' and inserting ``the last sentence of subsection 
                (c)(1).''.

[[Page 111 STAT. 2561]]

    (b) Aquatic Resources Trust Fund.--Section 9504(c) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9504.>> (relating to expenditures 
from Boat Safety Account) is amended by striking ``April 1, 1998'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 1998''.

    (c) National Recreational Trails Trust Fund.--Section 9511(c) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9511.>> (relating to 
expenditures from Trust Fund) is amended by striking ``1997'' and 
inserting ``1998''.

    (d) Effective <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503 note.>> Date.--The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on October 1, 1997.

    Approved December 1, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1519:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Nov. 10, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 12, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>