[105th Congress Public Law 340]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ340.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3191]]

Public Law 105-340
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend certain 
    programs with respect to women's health research and prevention 
  activities at the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for 
  Disease Control and Prevention. <<NOTE: Oct. 31, 1998 -  [S. 1722]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United <<NOTE: Women's Health Research and Prevention Amendments of 
1998. 42 USC 201 note.>>  States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Women's Health Research and 
Prevention Amendments of 1998''.

  TITLE I--PROVISIONS RELATING TO WOMEN'S HEALTH RESEARCH AT NATIONAL 
                          INSTITUTES OF HEALTH

SEC. 101. RESEARCH ON DRUG DES; NATIONAL PROGRAM OF EDUCATION.

    (a) Research.--Section 403A(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 283a(e)) is amended by striking ``1996'' and inserting ``2003''.
    (b) National Program for Education of Health Professionals and 
Public.--Title XVII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300u et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

                        ``education regarding des

    ``Sec. 1710. (a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 300u-9.>>  In General.--The 
Secretary, acting through the heads of the appropriate agencies of the 
Public Health Service, shall carry out a national program for the 
education of health professionals and the public with respect to the 
drug diethylstilbestrol (commonly known as DES). To the extent 
appropriate, such national program shall use methodologies developed 
through the education demonstration program carried out under section 
403A. In developing and carrying out the national program, the Secretary 
shall consult closely with representatives of nonprofit private entities 
that represent individuals who have been exposed to DES and that have 
expertise in community-based information campaigns for the public and 
for health care providers. The implementation of the national program 
shall begin during fiscal year 1999.

    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated

[[Page 112 STAT. 3192]]

such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1999 through 
2003. The authorization of appropriations established in the preceding 
sentence is in addition to any other authorization of appropriation that 
is available for such purpose.''.
SEC. 102. RESEARCH ON OSTEOPOROSIS, PAGET'S DISEASE, AND RELATED 
                        BONE DISORDERS.

    Section 409A(d) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284e(d)) 
is amended by striking ``and 1996'' and inserting ``through 2003''.

SEC. 103. RESEARCH ON CANCER.

    (a) Research on Breast Cancer.--Section 417B(b)(1) of the Public 
Health Service <<NOTE: 42 USC 285a-8.>>  Act (42 U.S.C. 286a-8(b)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and 1996'' and 
        inserting ``through 2003''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and 1996'' and 
        inserting ``through 2003''.

    (b) Research on Ovarian and Related Cancer Research.--Section 
417B(b)(2) of <<NOTE: 42 USC 285a-8.>>  the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 286a-8(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``and 1996'' and 
inserting ``through 2003''.
SEC. 104. RESEARCH ON HEART ATTACK, STROKE, AND OTHER 
                        CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES IN WOMEN.

    Subpart 2 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 285b et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 424 the 
following:

   ``heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women

    ``Sec. 424A. (a) <<NOTE: 42 USC 285b-7a.>>  In General.--The 
Director of the Institute shall expand, intensify, and coordinate 
research and related activities of the Institute with respect to heart 
attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women.

    ``(b) Coordination With Other Institutes.--The Director of the 
Institute shall coordinate activities under subsection (a) with similar 
activities conducted by the other national research institutes and 
agencies of the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such 
Institutes and agencies have responsibilities that are related to heart 
attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women.
    ``(c) Certain Programs.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Director of the Institute shall conduct or support research to expand 
the understanding of the causes of, and to develop methods for 
preventing, cardiovascular diseases in women. Activities under such 
subsection shall include conducting and supporting the following:
            ``(1) Research to determine the reasons underlying the 
        prevalence of heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular 
        diseases in women, including African-American women and other 
        women who are members of racial or ethnic minority groups.
            ``(2) Basic research concerning the etiology and causes of 
        cardiovascular diseases in women.
            ``(3) Epidemiological studies to address the frequency and 
        natural history of such diseases and the differences among

[[Page 112 STAT. 3193]]

        men and women, and among racial and ethnic groups, with respect 
        to such diseases.
            ``(4) The development of safe, efficient, and cost-effective 
        diagnostic approaches to evaluating women with suspected 
        ischemic heart disease.
            ``(5) Clinical research for the development and evaluation 
        of new treatments for women, including rehabilitation.
            ``(6) Studies to gain a better understanding of methods of 
        preventing cardiovascular diseases in women, including 
        applications of effective methods for the control of blood 
        pressure, lipids, and obesity.
            ``(7) Information and education programs for patients and 
        health care providers on risk factors associated with heart 
        attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women, and 
        on the importance of the prevention or control of such risk 
        factors and timely referral with appropriate diagnosis and 
        treatment. Such programs shall include information and education 
        on health-related behaviors that can improve such important risk 
        factors as smoking, obesity, high blood cholesterol, and lack of 
        exercise.

    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1999 through 2003. The 
authorization of appropriations established in the preceding sentence is 
in addition to any other authorization of appropriation that is 
available for such purpose.''.

SEC. 105. AGING PROCESSES REGARDING WOMEN.

    Section 445H of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285e-10) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Director'' and inserting ``(a) The 
        Director''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following subsection:

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Appropriation authorization.>>  For the purpose of 
carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1999 through 2003. 
The authorization of appropriations established in the preceding 
sentence is in addition to any other authorization of appropriation that 
is available for such purpose.''.

SEC. 106. OFFICE OF RESEARCH ON WOMEN'S HEALTH.

    Section 486(d)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
287d(d)(2)) is amended by striking ``Director of the Office'' and 
inserting ``Director of NIH''.

 TITLE II--PROVISIONS RELATING TO WOMEN'S HEALTH AT CENTERS FOR DISEASE 
                         CONTROL AND PREVENTION

SEC. 201. NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS.

    Section 306(n) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 242k(n)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through 1998'' and 
        inserting ``through 2003''; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 3194]]

            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``through 1998'' and 
        inserting ``through 2003''.

SEC. 202. NATIONAL PROGRAM OF CANCER REGISTRIES.

    Section 399L(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280e-
4(a)) is amended by striking ``through 1998'' and inserting ``through 
2003''.
SEC. 203. NATIONAL BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER EARLY DETECTION 
                        PROGRAM.

    (a) Services.--Section 1501(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300k(a)(2)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon the 
following: ``and support services such as case management''.
    (b) Providers of Services.--Section 1501(b) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300k(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through grants'' and all 
        that follows and inserting the following: ``through grants to 
        public and nonprofit private entities and through contracts with 
        public and private entities.''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Certain applications.--If a nonprofit private entity 
        and a private entity that is not a nonprofit entity both submit 
        applications to a State to receive an award of a grant or 
        contract pursuant to paragraph (1), the State may give priority 
        to the application submitted by the nonprofit private entity in 
        any case in which the State determines that the quality of such 
        application is equivalent to the quality of the application 
        submitted by the other private entity.''.

    (c) Authorizations of Appropriations.--
            (1) Supplemental grants for additional preventive health 
        services.--Section 1509(d)(1) of the Public Health Service Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 300n-4a(d)(1)) is amended by striking ``through 
        1998'' and inserting ``through 2003''.
            (2) General program.--Section 1510(a) of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300n-5(a)) is amended by striking 
        ``through 1998'' and inserting ``through 2003''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3195]]

SEC. 204. CENTERS FOR RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION OF HEALTH 
                        PROMOTION.

    Section 1706(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-
5(e)) is amended by striking ``through 1998'' and inserting ``through 
2003''.

    Approved October 31, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1722:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 12, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 13, considered and passed House.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            Oct. 31, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>