[105th Congress Public Law 379]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ379.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3399]]

Public Law 105-379
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the Food Stamp Act of 1977 to require food stamp State agencies 
to take certain actions to ensure that food stamp coupons are not issued 
  for deceased individuals, to require the Secretary of Agriculture to 
conduct a study of options for the design, development, implementation, 
 and operation of a national database to track participation in Federal 
         means-tested publicassistance programs, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 1998 -  [S. 1733]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DENIAL OF FOOD STAMPS FOR DECEASED INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 11 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2020) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(r) Denial of Food Stamps for Deceased Individuals.--Each State 
agency shall--
            ``(1) enter into a cooperative arrangement with the 
        Commissioner of Social Security, pursuant to the authority of 
        the Commissioner under section 205(r)(3) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 405(r)(3)), to obtain information on individuals 
        who are deceased; and
            ``(2) use the information to verify and otherwise ensure 
        that benefits are not issued to individuals who are deceased.''.

    (b) Report.--Not later <<NOTE: Deadline. 7 USC 2020 note.>>  than 
September 1, 2000, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a report 
regarding the progress and effectiveness of the cooperative arrangements 
entered into by State agencies under section 11(r) of the Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2020(r)) (as added by subsection (a)) to--
            (1) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (2) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
        the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (4) the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and
            (5) the Secretary of the Treasury.

    (c) Effective <<NOTE: 7 USC 2020 note.>>  Date.--This section and 
the amendments made by this section take effect on June 1, 2000.
SEC. 2. STUDY <<NOTE: 7 USC 2011 note.>>  OF NATIONAL DATABASE FOR 
                    FEDERAL MEANS-TESTED PUBLIC ASSISTANCE 
                    PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a study 
of options for the design, development, implementation, and operation of 
a national database to track participation in Federal means-tested 
public assistance programs.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3400]]

    (b) Administration.--In conducting the study, the Secretary shall--
            (1) analyze available data to determine--
                    (A) whether the data have addressed the needs of the 
                food stamp program established under the Food Stamp Act 
                of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
                    (B) whether additional or unique data need to be 
                developed to address the needs of the food stamp 
                program; and
                    (C) the feasibility and cost-benefit ratio of each 
                available option for a national database;
            (2) survey the States to determine how the States are 
        enforcing the prohibition on recipients receiving assistance in 
        more than one State under Federal means-tested public assistance 
        programs;
            (3) determine the functional requirements of each available 
        option for a national database; and
            (4) ensure that all options provide safeguards to protect 
        against the unauthorized use or disclosure of information in the 
        national database.

    (c) Report.--Not later <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report on the results of the study conducted under this section.

    (d) Funding.--Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the 
Secretary of Agriculture $500,000 to carry out this section. The 
Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and shall accept the 
funds, without further appropriation.

    Approved November 12, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1733:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 15, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>