[105th Congress Public Law 342]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ342.105]


[[Page 3199]]

               ADAMS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK ACT OF 1998

[[Page 112 STAT. 3200]]

Public Law 105-342
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the Adams National Historical Park in the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts, and for other <<NOTE: Nov. 2, 1998 -  [S. 
                            2240]>> purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Adams National Historical 
Park Act of 1998.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee note.>> TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Adams National Historical Park Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee.>> PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1946, Secretary of the Interior J.A. Krug, by means 
        of the authority granted the Secretary of the Interior under 
        section 2 of the Historic Sites Act of August 21, 1935, 
        established the Adams Mansion National Historic Site, located in 
        Quincy, Massachusetts;
            (2) in 1952, Acting Secretary of the Interior Vernon D. 
        Northrup enlarged the site and renamed it the Adams National 
        Historic Site, using the Secretary's authority as provided in 
        the Historic Sites Act;
            (3) in 1972, Congress, through Public Law 92-272, authorized 
        the Secretary of the Interior to add approximately 3.68 acres at 
        Adams National Historic Site;
            (4) in 1978, Congress, through Public Law 95-625, authorized 
        the Secretary of the Interior to accept by conveyance the 
        birthplaces of John Adams and John Quincy Adams, both in Quincy, 
        Massachusetts, to be managed as part of the Adams National 
        Historic Site;
            (5) in 1980, Congress, through Public Law 96-435, authorized 
        the Secretary of the Interior to accept the conveyance of the 
        United First Parish Church in Quincy, Massachusetts, the burial 
        place of John Adams, Abigail Adams, and John Quincy Adams and 
        his wife, to be administered as part of the Adams National 
        Historic Site;
            (6) the actions taken by past Secretaries of the Interior 
        and past Congresses to preserve for the benefit, education and 
        inspiration of present and future generations of Americans the 
        home, property, birthplaces and burial site of John Adams, John 
        Quincy Adams, and Abigail Adams, have resulted in a multi-site 
        unit of the National Park System with no overarching enabling or 
        authorizing legislation; and
            (7) that the sites and resources associated with John Adams, 
        second President of the United States, his wife Abigail Adams, 
        and John Quincy Adams, sixth President of the United

[[Page 112 STAT. 3201]]

        States, require recognition as a national historical park in the 
        National Park System.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to establish the Adams 
National Historical Park in the City of Quincy, in the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, to preserve, maintain and interpret the home, property, 
birthplaces, and burial site of John Adams and his wife Abigail, John 
Quincy Adams, and subsequent generations of the Adams family associated 
with the Adams property in Quincy, Massachusetts, for the benefit, 
education and inspiration of present and future generations of 
Americans.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee-1.>> DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means the 
        Adams National Historical Park established in section 4.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 4. ADAMS NATIONAL HISTORICAL <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee-2.>> PARK.

    (a) Establishment.--In order to preserve for the benefit and 
inspiration of the people of the United States as a national historical 
park certain properties in Quincy, Massachusetts, associated with John 
Adams, second President of the United States, his wife, Abigail Adams, 
John Quincy Adams, sixth President of the United States, and his wife, 
Louisa Adams, there is established the Adams National Historical Park as 
a unit of the National Park System.
    (b) Boundaries.--The historical park shall be comprised of the 
following:
            (1) All property administered by the National Park Service 
        in the Adams National Historic Site as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, as well as all property previously authorized to be 
        acquired by the Secretary for inclusion in the Adams National 
        Historic Site, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Adams 
        National Historical Park'', numbered NERO 386/80,000, and dated 
        April 1998.
            (2) All property authorized to be acquired for inclusion in 
        the historical park by this Act or other law enacted after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.

    (c) Visitor and Administrative Sites.--To preserve the historical 
character and landscape of the main features of the historical park, the 
Secretary may acquire up to 10 acres for the development of visitor, 
administrative, museum, curatorial, and maintenance facilities adjacent 
to or in the general proximity of the property depicted on the map 
identified in subsection (b)(1)(A).
    (d) Map.--The map of the historical park shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee-3.>> ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The park shall be administered by the Secretary in 
accordance with this section and the provisions of law generally 
applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act 
entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2, 3, 
and 4) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467), 
as amended.
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) The Secretary may consult and enter 
into cooperative agreements with interested entities and

[[Page 112 STAT. 3202]]

individuals to provide for the preservation, development, 
interpretation, and use of the park.
    (2) Any payment made by the Secretary pursuant to a cooperative 
agreement under this paragraph shall be subject to an agreement that 
conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted for purposes 
contrary to the purposes of this Act, as determined by the Secretary, 
shall result in a right of the United States to reimbursement of all 
funds made available to such a project or the proportion of the 
increased value of the project attributable to such funds as determined 
at the time of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.
    (c) Acquisition of Real Property.--For the purposes of the park, the 
Secretary is authorized to acquire real property with appropriated or 
donated funds, by donation, or by exchange, within the boundaries of the 
park.
    (d) Repeal of Superceded Administrative Authorities.--
            (1) Section 312 of the National Parks and Recreation Act of 
        1978 (Public Law 95-625; 92 Stat. 3479) is amended by striking 
        ``(a)'' after ``SEC. 312''; and strike subsection (b) in its 
        entirety.
            (2) The first section of Public Law 96-435 (94 Stat. 1861) 
        is amended by striking ``(a)'' after ``That''; and strike 
        subsection (b) in its entirety.

    (e) References to the Historic Site.--Any reference in any law 
(other than this Act), regulation, document, record, map, or other paper 
of the United States to the Adams National Historic Site shall be 
considered to be a reference to the historical park.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF <<NOTE: 16 USC 410eee-4.>> APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved November 2, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2240:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-404 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 7, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>