[105th Congress Public Law 204]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ204.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 681]]

Public Law 105-204
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To require the Secretary of Energy <<NOTE:  July 21, 1998 -  [S. 
2316]>> to submit to Congress a plan to ensure that all amounts accrued 
    on the books of the United States Enrichment Corporation for the 
 disposition of depleted uranium hexafluoride will be used to treat and 
                 recycle depleted uranium hexafluoride.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. UNITED STATES ENRICHMENT <<NOTE: President.>> CORPORATION.

    (a) Plan.--The <<NOTE: Ohio.>> Secretary of Energy shall prepare, 
and the President shall include in the budget request for fiscal year 
2000, a plan and proposed legislation to ensure that all amounts accrued 
on the books of the United States Enrichment Corporation for the 
disposition of depleted uranium hexafluoride will be used to commence 
construction of, not later than January 31, 2004, and to operate, an 
onsite facility at each of the gaseous diffusion plants at Paducah, 
Kentucky, and Portsmouth, Ohio, to treat and recycle depleted uranium 
hexafluoride consistent with the National Environmental Policy Act.

    (b) Limitation.--Notwithstanding the privatization of the United 
States Enrichment Corporation and notwithstanding any other provision of 
law (including the repeal of chapters 22 through 26 of the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2297 et seq.) made by section 3116(a)(1) of the 
United States Enrichment Corporation Privatization Act (104 Stat. 1321-
349), no amounts described in subsection (a) shall be withdrawn from the 
United States Enrichment Corporation Fund established by section 1308 of 
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2297b-7) or the Working Capital 
Account established under section 1316 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 
(42 U.S.C. 2297b-15) until the date that is 1 year after the date on 
which the President submits to Congress the budget request for fiscal 
year 2000.
    (c) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that 
Congress should authorize appropriations during fiscal year 2000 in an 
amount sufficient to fully fund the plan described in subsection (a).

    Approved July 21, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2316:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            July 16, considered and passed Senate.
            July 20, considered and passed House.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            July 21, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>