[105th Congress Public Law 14]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ14.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 32]]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Public Law 105-14
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
   Congress to Francis Albert ``Frank'' Sinatra in recognition of his 
outstanding and enduring contributions through his entertainment career 
  and humanitarian activities, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: May 14, 
                           1997 -  [S. 305]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) Francis Albert ``Frank'' Sinatra has touched the lives 
        of millions around the world and across generations through his 
        outstanding career in entertainment, which has spanned more than 
        5 decades;
            (2) Frank Sinatra has significantly contributed to the 
        entertainment industry through his endeavors as a producer, 
        director, actor, and gifted vocalist;
            (3) the humanitarian contributions of Frank Sinatra have 
        been recognized in the forms of a Lifetime Achievement Award 
        from the NAACP, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award from the 
        Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the Presidential 
        Medal of Freedom Award, and the George Foster Peabody Award; and
            (4) the entertainment accomplishments of Frank Sinatra, 
        including the release of more than 50 albums and appearances in 
        more than 60 films, have been recognized in the forms of the 
        Screen Actors Guild Award, the Kennedy Center Honors, 8 Grammy 
        Awards from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Science, 
        2 Academy Awards from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and 
        Sciences, and an Emmy Award.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of the Congress, a gold medal of appropriate design 
to Francis Albert ``Frank'' Sinatra in recognition of his outstanding 
and enduring contributions through his entertainment career and numerous 
humanitarian activities.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal 
with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by 
the Secretary.

[[Page 111 STAT. 33]]

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, and at a price sufficient to cover the costs 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead 
expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for 
purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 note.>>  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; 
            PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be charged against the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund an amount not 
to exceed $30,000 to pay for the cost of the medal authorized by this 
Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sales of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the Numismatic 
Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved May 14, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 305 (H.R. 279):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Feb. 26, considered and passed Senate.
            Apr. 29, H.R. 279 and S. 305 considered and passed House.

                                  <all>