[108th Congress Public Law 2]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ002.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 5]]

Public Law 108-2
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2003, and 
      for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 10, 2003 -  [H.J. Res. 1]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Public Law 107-229 is 
further amended by striking the date specified in section 107(c) 
and <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 2062.>> inserting in lieu thereof ``January 31, 
2003''.

    Sec. 2. Public Law 107-229, as amended, is further amended in 
section 120, <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1492.>> by striking ``and December 1, 
2002,'' and inserting ``December 1, 2002, January 1, 2003, and February 
1, 2003,''.

    Sec. 3. Section 613 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2002, <<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>> is amended (1) by 
striking ``2001'' and ``2002'' each place it appears and inserting 
``2002'' and ``2003'', respectively; and (2) in subsection (a)(1), as so 
amended, by inserting ``(as in effect on September 30, 2002)'' after 
``Act, 2002'' and after ``such section 613'': Provided, That such 
section, as so amended, shall be effective through September 30, 2003, 
notwithstanding section 107 of this joint resolution.

    Sec. 4. Public Law 107-229, as amended, is further amended by 
striking section 137 <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1495.>> and inserting the 
following new section:

    ``Sec. 137. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, in addition to amounts made available in section 101, and 
subject to sections 107(c) and 108, such sums as may be necessary shall 
be available to the Securities and Exchange Commission for the Secretary 
of the Treasury to advance start-up expenses to the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board pursuant to section 109(j) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-204).
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution, 
upon the collection of fees authorized in section 109(d) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-204), the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board shall reimburse the Securities and Exchange 
Commission for any Commission appropriations advanced to the Board for 
start-up expenses pursuant to section 109(j) of such Act or subsection 
(a) of this section, so as to result in no net effect of such advances 
on appropriations available to the Commission in fiscal year 2003.''.
    Sec. 5. (a) Approval of Prospectus.--For purposes of section 3307(a) 
of title 40, United States Code, the prospectus of General Services 
Administration entitled ``Prospectus--Lease, Department of Homeland 
Security, Washington, DC Metropolitan Area'', prospectus number PDC-
08W03, as submitted on December 24, 2002, is deemed approved by the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and

[[Page 117 STAT. 6]]

Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Prohibition on Delegation.--The authority of the General 
Services Administration to lease space under this section may not be 
delegated to any other department or agency.
    (c) Modifications.--Any modification to the prospectus referred to 
in subsection (a) that is subject to approval under section 3307 of 
title 40, United States Code, shall be approved in accordance with the 
requirements of such section.
    Sec. 6. Section 126 of Public Law 107-229, as added by Public Law 
107-240, <<NOTE: 116 Stat. 1493.>> is amended to read as follows:

    ``Sec. 126. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 107, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds for programs and activities under the heading `District of 
Columbia Funds--Operating Expenses' at the rate set forth for such 
programs and activities in the revised financial plan and budget for the 
District Government for fiscal year 2003 submitted to Congress by the 
District of Columbia pursuant to section 138 of H.R. 5521 of the 107th 
Congress, as reported by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.''.

    Approved January 10, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 1:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Jan. 8, considered and passed House.
            Jan. 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>