[108th Congress Public Law 185]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ185.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 2684]]

Public Law 108-185
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2004, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 16, 2003 -  [H.J. Res. 82]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That section 121 of Public Law 
108-84 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1044.>> is amended by striking 
``$3,800,000,000'' and inserting ``$7,667,000,000'': 
Provided, <<NOTE: Certification.>> That the amendment made by this 
section shall take effect only after a certification by the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget is submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that the 
use of the authority provided pursuant to this section will not result 
in commitments to guarantee new loans for the entire fiscal year at a 
level in excess of the limitation set forth in the fiscal year 2003 
appropriations Act and that the apportionment of loan commitment 
authority provided for the Federal Housing Administration, General and 
Special Risk Insurance Fund and the Federal Housing Administration, 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund is in compliance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Public Law 108-84: 
Provided further, That the authority provided under the amendment made 
by this section shall only apply to new commitments issued after 
enactment of this section: Provided further, That nothing in this 
section may be construed to pardon or release an officer or employee of 
the United States Government for an act or acts in violation of section 
1341 of title 31, United States Code (the Antideficiency Act) or any 
other applicable law that occurred prior to enactment of this section.

    Sec. 2. Public Law 108-84, as amended, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1200.>> is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new section:

    ``Sec. 131. Subject to sections 107(c) and 108 of this joint 
resolution, for the Federal Aviation Administration Operations Account 
Staff Offices line of business, at a rate of operations not to exceed 
$141,411,000.''.

    Approved December 16, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 82
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Dec. 8, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>