[108th Congress Public Law 312]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ312.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 1194]]

Public Law 108-312
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for an adjustment of the boundaries of Mount Rainier National 
   Park, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 5, 2004 -  [H.R. 265]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Mount Rainier National Park 
Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004. Washington.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 91 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mount Rainier National Park Boundary 
Adjustment Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 110d note.>> FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Carbon River watershed within Pierce County in the 
        State of Washington has unique qualities of ecological, 
        economic, and educational importance, including clean water, 
        productive salmon streams, important wildlife habitat, active 
        geologic processes, outdoor recreational opportunities, scenic 
        beauty, educational opportunities, and diverse economic 
        opportunities.
            (2) Mount Rainier National Park is one of the premier 
        attractions in the State of Washington, providing recreational, 
        educational, and economic opportunities that will be enhanced by 
        the construction of new campgrounds and visitor contact 
        facilities in the Carbon River valley outside old-growth forest 
        habitats and above the flood plain.
            (3) Coordination of management across national forest and 
        national park lands in this corridor will enhance the 
        conservation of the forest ecosystem and public enjoyment of 
        these public lands.
            (4) Protection and development of historic and recreational 
        facilities in the Carbon River valley, such as trails and 
        visitor centers, can be facilitated by the National Park 
        Service.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 110d.>> MOUNT RAINIER NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY 
            ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of Mount Rainier National 
Park is modified to include the area within the boundary generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Mount Rainier National Park, Carbon River 
Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 105/92,002B, and dated June 2003. The 
Secretary of the Interior shall keep the map on file in the appropriate 
offices of the National Park Service.
    (b) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior may acquire, 
only with the consent of the owner, by donation, purchase with donated 
or appropriated funds, or exchange--

[[Page 118 STAT. 1195]]

            (1) land or interests in land, totaling not more than 800 
        acres, and improvements thereon within the boundary generally 
        depicted on the map referred to in subsection (a) for 
        development of camping and other recreational facilities; and
            (2) land or interests in land, totaling not more than one 
        acre, and improvements thereon in the vicinity of Wilkeson, 
        Washington, for a facility to serve visitors to public lands 
        along the Carbon and Mowich Corridors.

    (c) Administration of Acquired Lands.--Lands acquired under this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as part 
of Mount Rainier National Park in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations.

SEC. 4. ASSOCIATED LANDS.

    The Secretary of Agriculture shall manage that portion of the Mt. 
Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest lying adjacent to Mt. Rainier National 
Park, as identified on the map referred to in section 3(a), to maintain 
the area's natural setting in a manner consistent with its management as 
of June 1, 2003.

    Approved October 5, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 265:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-495 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-330 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            June 1, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>