[108th Congress Private Law 3]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl003.108]

<star>(Star Print)

[[Page 1]]

Private Law 108-3
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Richi James Lesley. <<NOTE: Oct. 30, 2004 -  [H.R. 
                                 712]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR RICHI JAMES LESLEY.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Richi James Lesley shall be 
eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon 
filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Richi James Lesley enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall 
be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if 
otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Deadline for Application and Payment of 
Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Richi James Lesley, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the 
alien's birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
available to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 
202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Richi James 
Lesley shall not, by virtue of such relationship,

[[Page 2]]

be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.

    Approved October 30, 2004.