[108th Congress Public Law 363]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ363.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 1705]]

Public Law 108-363
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To increase, effective as of December 1, 2004, the rates of disability 
 compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the 
rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for survivors of certain 
           service-connected disabled veterans, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 25, 2004 -  [H.R. 4175]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Veterans' 
Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2004.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 38 USC 101 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living 
Adjustment Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. INCREASE <<NOTE: 38 USC 1114 note.>> IN RATES OF DISABILITY 
            COMPENSATION AND DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION

    (a) Rate Adjustment.--The <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall, effective on December 1, 2004, increase the 
dollar amounts in effect for the payment of disability compensation and 
dependency and indemnity compensation by the Secretary, as specified in 
subsection (b).

    (b) Amounts To Be Increased.--The dollar amounts to be increased 
pursuant to subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) Compensation.--Each of the dollar amounts in effect 
        under section 1114 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Additional compensation for dependents.--Each of the 
        dollar amounts in effect under sections 1115(1) of such title.
            (3) Clothing allowance.--The dollar amount in effect under 
        section 1162 of such title.
            (4) New dic rates.--The dollar amounts in effect under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1311(a) of such title.
            (5) Old dic rates.--Each of the dollar amounts in effect 
        under section 1311(a)(3) of such title.
            (6) Additional dic for surviving spouses with minor 
        children.--The dollar amount in effect under section 1311(b) of 
        such title.
            (7) Additional dic for disability.--The dollar amounts in 
        effect under sections 1311(c) and 1311(d) of such title.
            (8) DIC for dependent children.--The dollar amounts in 
        effect under sections 1313(a) and 1314 of such title.

    (c) Determination of Increase.--(1) The increase under subsection 
(a) shall be made in the dollar amounts specified in subsection (b) as 
in effect on November 30, 2004.
    (2) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Except as provided in paragraph (3), 
each such amount shall be increased by the same percentage as the 
percentage by which benefit amounts payable under title II of the Social 
Security

[[Page 118 STAT. 1706]]

Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) are increased effective December 1, 2004, as 
a result of a determination under section 215(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
415(i)).

    (3) Each dollar amount increased pursuant to paragraph (2) shall, if 
not a whole dollar amount, be rounded down to the next lower whole 
dollar amount.
    (d) Special Rule.--The Secretary may adjust administratively, 
consistent with the increases made under subsection (a), the rates of 
disability compensation payable to persons within the purview of section 
10 of Public Law 85-857 (72 Stat. 1263) who are not in receipt of 
compensation payable pursuant to chapter 11 of title 38, United States 
Code.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication. 38 USC 1114 
            note.>> PUBLICATION OF ADJUSTED RATES.

    At the same time as the matters specified in section 215(i)(2)(D) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 415(i)(2)(D)) are required to be 
published by reason of a determination made under section 215(i) of such 
Act during fiscal year 2005, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
publish in the Federal Register the amounts specified in subsection (b) 
of section 2, as increased pursuant to that section.

    Approved October 25, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4175 (S. 2483):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-524 (Comm. on Veterans' Affairs).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-351 accompanying S. 2483 (Comm. on Veterans' 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            July 20, 22, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of S. 
                2483.
            Oct. 8, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>