[108th Congress Public Law 262]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ262.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 696]]

Public Law 108-262
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant 
program through September 30, 2004, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 
                       30, 2004 -  [H.R. 4589]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: TANF and Related 
Programs Continuation Act of 2004. 42 USC 1305 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``TANF and Related Programs 
Continuation Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES BLOCK 
            GRANT PROGRAM THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 2004.

    (a) In General.--Activities authorized by part A of title IV of the 
Social Security Act, and by sections 510, 1108(b), and 1925 of such Act, 
shall continue through September 30, 2004, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2002, notwithstanding section 1902(e)(1)(A) of such Act, and 
out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise 
appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for such purpose. Grants and payments may be made pursuant to 
this authority through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 at the 
level provided for such activities through the fourth quarter of fiscal 
year 2002.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 403(a)(3)(H)(ii) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(3)(H)(ii)) is amended by striking ``June 
30'' and inserting ``September 30''.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF THE NATIONAL RANDOM SAMPLE STUDY OF CHILD WELFARE 
            AND CHILD WELFARE WAIVER AUTHORITY THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 
            2004.

    Activities authorized by sections 429A and 1130(a) of the Social 
Security Act shall continue through September 30, 2004, in the manner 
authorized for fiscal year 2002, and out of any money in the Treasury of 
the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. Grants and 
payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the fourth 
quarter of fiscal year 2004

[[Page 118 STAT. 697]]

at the level provided for such activities through the fourth quarter of 
fiscal year 2002.

    Approved June 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4589:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            June 22, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>