[108th Congress Public Law 313]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ313.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 1196]]

Public Law 108-313
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for additional lands to be included within the boundary of 
the Johnstown Flood National Memorial in the State of Pennsylvania, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 5, 2004 -  [H.R. 1521]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Johnstown Flood National 
Memorial Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004. 16 USC 431 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Johnstown Flood National Memorial 
Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. BOUNDARY OF JOHNSTOWN FLOOD NATIONAL MEMORIAL.

    The boundary of the Johnstown Flood National Memorial (``Memorial'') 
is modified to include the area as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Johnstown Flood National Memorial, Cambria County, 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania'', numbered N.E.R.O. 427/80,008 and dated 
June, 2003. The map shall be on file and available for inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the National Park Service, Department of the 
Interior.

SEC. 3. ACQUISITION OF LANDS.

    The Secretary of the Interior (``Secretary'') is authorized to 
acquire from willing sellers the land or interests in land as described 
in section 2 by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, 
or exchange.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF LANDS.

    Lands added to the Memorial by section 2 shall be administered by 
the Secretary as part of the Memorial in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations.

[[Page 118 STAT. 1197]]

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    In addition to amounts otherwise made available for land 
acquisition, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.

    Approved October 5, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1521:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-301 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-276 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 149 (2003):
                                    Oct. 15, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 150 (2004):
                                    Sept. 15, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>