[108th Congress Public Law 481]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ481.108]


[[Page 118 STAT. 3910]]

Public Law 108-481
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To provide for the expansion of Kilauea Point National Wildlife 
             Refuge. <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 2004 -  [H.R. 2619]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Kilauea Point National 
Wildlife Refuge Expansion Act of 2004. 16 USC 668dd note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Kilauea Point National Wildlife 
Refuge Expansion Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF KILAUEA POINT NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior may acquire by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, all 
or a portion of the land or interests in land described in subsection 
(b), as depicted on a map on file with the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service entitled ``Kilauea Point Wildlife Refuge Expansion 
Area'' and dated April 22, 2004.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is 
the following:
            (1) Parcel 1, consisting of approximately 12 acres known as 
        the Kilauea Bay property.
            (2) Parcel 2, consisting of approximately 40 acres known as 
        the Kilauea Vistas property.
            (3) Parcel 3, consisting of approximately 162 acres known as 
        the Kilauea Falls Ranch.
            (4) Parcel 4, consisting of approximately 5 acres known as 
        the Kauai Public Land Trust Kahili Beach property.
            (5) Parcel 5, comprised of lot 10c of the parcel known as 
        Kilauea Garden Farms, and consisting of approximately 15 acres.

    (c) Boundary Revisions.--The Secretary may make such minor revisions 
in the boundaries of any of the parcels described in subsection (b) as 
may be appropriate to facilitate the acquisition of land or interests 
under subsection (a).
    (d) Inclusion in Refuge.--Land and interests acquired under this 
section shall become part of the Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge.
    (e) Manner of Acquisition.--All acquisitions of land or waters under 
this Act shall be made in a voluntary manner and shall not be the result 
of forced takings.
    (f) Additional Purposes.--In addition to the purposes of the Refuge 
under other laws, regulations, Executive orders, and comprehensive 
conservation plans, the Refuge shall be managed for--
            (1) the protection and recovery of endangered Hawaiian water 
        birds and other endangered birds, including the Nene (Hawaiian 
        goose); and

[[Page 118 STAT. 3911]]

            (2) the conservation and management of native coastal 
        strand, riparian, and aquatic biological diversity.

    (g) Priority General Public Uses.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
considered to affect any policy or requirement, under paragraph (3) or 
(4), respectively, of section 4(a) of the National Wildlife Refuge 
Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd(a)), to treat compatible 
wildlife-dependent recreational uses as priority general public uses of 
the Refuge.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In general.--The Secretary shall administer all federally owned 
land, water, and interests in land and water that are located within the 
boundaries of the Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge in accordance 
with--
            (1) the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act 
        of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.); and
            (2) this Act.

    (b) Additional authority.--The Secretary may, in the administration 
of the Kilauea Point National Wildlife Refuge, use such additional 
statutory authority available to the Secretary for the conservation of 
fish and wildlife, and the provision of opportunities for fish- and 
wildlife-dependent recreation, as the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate to carry out this Act.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary--
            (1) to acquire land and water within the Refuge under 
        section 2(a); and
            (2) to develop, operate, and maintain the Refuge.

    Approved December 23, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2619:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-522 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            July 19, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>