[108th Congress Public Law 383]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ383.108]

[[Page 2217]]

   NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION EFFICIENCY ACT OF 2004

[[Page 118 STAT. 2218]]

Public Law 108-383
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend title 44, United States Code, to improve the efficiency of 
 operations by the National Archives and Records Administration and to 
      reauthorize the National Historical Publications and Records 
           Commission. <<NOTE: Oct. 30, 2004 -  [H.R. 3478]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: National Archives and Records 
Administration Efficiency Act of 2004.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 44 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Archives and Records 
Administration Efficiency Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF RECORDS RETENTION PERIODS.

    (a) Extension of Records Retention Periods by Regulation.--Section 
2909 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``, upon the submission of evidence of 
        need,'';
            (2) by striking ``; and, in accordance with regulations 
        promulgated by him,'' and inserting ``, and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following: ``The Archivist 
        shall promulgate regulations in accordance with section 2104(a) 
        of this title to implement this section.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (d) of section 3303a of title 
44, United States Code, is amended by striking the second sentence.

SEC. 3. AUTHORITY FOR RECORDS CENTER REVOLVING FUND TO BE USED FOR THE 
            PURCHASE AND CARE OF UNIFORMS FOR RECORDS CENTERS EMPLOYEES.

    Subsection (a) under the heading ``records center revolving fund'' 
in title IV of the Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public 
Law 106-58; 113 Stat. 460; 44 U.S.C. 2901 note), is amended by inserting 
after ``expenses'' in the first sentence the following: ``(including 
expenses for uniforms or allowances for uniforms as authorized by 
subchapter I of chapter 59 of title 5)''.

SEC. 4. AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES FOR PUBLIC USE OF FACILITIES OF 
            NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Presidential Archival Depositories.--Subsection (e) of section 
2112 of title 44, United States Code, is amended by striking ``space'' 
and inserting ``space, or for the occasional, non-official use of rooms 
and spaces (and services related to such use),''.
    (b) National Archives Building and Other Buildings Used for Record 
Storage.--Section 2903 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The Archivist''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

[[Page 118 STAT. 2219]]

    ``(b) When the Archivist considers it to be in the public interest, 
the Archivist may charge and collect reasonable fees from the public for 
the occasional, non-official use of rooms and spaces, and services 
related to such use, in the buildings subject to this section. Fees 
collected under this subsection shall be paid into an account in the 
National Archives Trust Fund and shall be held, administered, and 
expended for the benefit and in the interest of the national archival 
and records activities administered by the National Archives and Records 
Administration, including educational and public program purposes.''.

SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO USE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATE AND LOCAL 
            GOVERNMENTS, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, AND OTHER PUBLIC AND 
            NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS TO FURTHER NARA PROGRAMS.

    (a) Authority.--Chapter 21 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``Sec. 2119. Cooperative agreements

    ``(a) Authority.--The Archivist may enter into cooperative 
agreements pursuant to section 6305 of title 31 that involve the 
transfer of funds from the National Archives and Records Administration 
to State and local governments, other public entities, educational 
institutions, or private nonprofit organizations (including foundations 
or institutes organized to support the National Archives and Records 
Administration or the Presidential archival depositories operated by it) 
for the public purpose of carrying out programs of the National Archives 
and Records Administration.
    ``(b) Limitations.--Not more than $25,000 may be transferred under a 
cooperative agreement entered into as authorized by subsection (a). Not 
more than a total of $75,000 may be transferred under such agreements in 
any fiscal year.
    ``(c) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than December 31st of 
each year, the Archivist shall submit to the Committee on Government 
Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate a report on the provisions, amount, and duration 
of each cooperative agreement entered into as authorized by subsection 
(a) during the preceding fiscal year.''.

    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2119. Cooperative agreements.''.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS THROUGH FISCAL YEAR 2009 FOR 
            NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND RECORDS COMMISSION.

    Section 2504(f)(1) of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (N), by striking ``and'';
            (2) in subparagraph (O), by striking the period and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end of the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(P) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2006;
                    ``(Q) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2007;

[[Page 118 STAT. 2220]]

                    ``(R) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2008; and
                    ``(S) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.''.

    Approved October 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3478:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-403 (Comm. on Government Reform).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Sept. 13, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 11, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>