[108th Congress Public Law 88]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ088.108]

[[Page 1109]]

              SURFACE TRANSPORTATION EXTENSION ACT OF 2003

[[Page 117 STAT. 1110]]

Public Law 108-88
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide an extension of highway, highway safety, motor carrier 
safety, transit, and other programs funded out of the Highway Trust Fund 
 pending enactment of a law reauthorizing the Transportation Equity Act 
     for the 21st Century. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 2003 -  [H.R. 3087]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 2003.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 23 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Surface Transportation Extension Act 
of 2003''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> ADVANCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation shall apportion 
funds made available under section 1101(c) of the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 116), as amended by this Act, to 
each State in the ratio that--
            (1) the State's total fiscal year 2003 obligation authority 
        for funds apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program; bears 
        to
            (2) all States' total fiscal year 2003 obligation authority 
        for funds apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program.

    (b) Programmatic Distributions.--
            (1) Programs.--Of the funds to be apportioned to each State 
        under subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the State 
        is apportioned an amount of the funds, determined under 
        paragraph (2), for the Interstate maintenance program, the 
        National Highway System program, the bridge program, the surface 
        transportation program, the congestion mitigation and air 
        quality improvement program, the recreational trails program, 
        the Appalachian development highway system program, and the 
        minimum guarantee.
            (2) In general.--The amount that each State shall be 
        apportioned under this subsection for each item referred to in 
        paragraph (1) shall be determined by multiplying--
                    (A) the amount apportioned to the State under 
                subsection (a); by
                    (B) the ratio that--
                          (i) the amount of funds apportioned for the 
                      item to the State for fiscal year 2003; bears to
                          (ii) the total of the amount of funds 
                      apportioned for the items to the State for fiscal 
                      year 2003.
            (3) Administration of funds.--Funds authorized by the 
        amendment made under subsection (d) shall be administered as if 
        the funds had been apportioned, allocated, deducted, or set 
        aside, as the case may be, under title 23, United States

[[Page 117 STAT. 1111]]

        Code; except that the deductions and set-asides in the following 
        sections of such title shall not apply to such funds: sections 
        104(a)(1)(A), 104(a)(1)(B), 104(b)(1)(A), 104(d)(1), 104(d)(2), 
        104(f)(1), 104(h)(1), 118(c)(1), 140(b), 140(c), and 144(g)(1).
            (4) Special rules for minimum guarantee.--In carrying out 
        the minimum guarantee under section 105(c) of title 23, United 
        States Code, with funds apportioned under this section for the 
        minimum guarantee, the $2,800,000,000 set forth in paragraph (1) 
        of such section 105(c) shall be treated as being $1,166,666,667 
        and the aggregate of amounts apportioned to the States under 
        this section for the minimum guarantee shall be treated, for 
        purposes of such section 105(c), as amounts made available under 
        section 105 of such title.
            (5) Extension of off-system bridge setaside.--Section 
        144(g)(3) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by 
        inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``and in the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004,''.

    (c) Repayment From Future Apportionments.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall reduce the amount that 
        would be apportioned, but for this section, to a State for 
        programs under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, for 
        fiscal year 2004, under a law reauthorizing the Federal-aid 
        highway program enacted after the date of enactment of this Act 
        by the amount that is apportioned to each State under subsection 
        (a) and section 5(c) for each such program.
            (2) Program category reconciliation.--The Secretary may 
        establish procedures under which funds apportioned under 
        subsection (a) for a program category for which funds are not 
        authorized under a law described in paragraph (1) may be 
        restored to the Federal-aid highway program.

    (d) Authorization of Contract Authority.--Section 1101 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 111-115) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Advance Authorization.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be available from the Highway 
        Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out 
        section 2(a) of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2003 
        $13,483,458,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Special rule.--Funds apportioned under section 2(a) of 
        the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2003 shall be 
        subject to a limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety construction programs.
            ``(3) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code.''.

    (e) Limitation on Obligations.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004, the Secretary shall 
        allocate to each State for programs funded under this section 
        and section 5(c) an amount of obligation authority made 
        available under an Act making appropriations for the Department 
        of Transportation for fiscal year 2004 that is--
                    (A) equal to the greater of--
                          (i) the State's unobligated balance, as of 
                      October 1, 2003, of Federal-aid highway 
                      apportionments subject

[[Page 117 STAT. 1112]]

                      to any limitation on obligations; except that 
                      unobligated balances of contract authority from 
                      minimum guarantee and Appalachian development 
                      highway system apportionments for which obligation 
                      authority was made available until used shall not 
                      be included for purposes of calculating a State's 
                      unobligated balance of apportionments for this 
                      clause; or
                          (ii) \5/12\ of the State's total fiscal year 
                      2003 obligation authority for funds apportioned 
                      for the Federal-aid highway program; but
                    (B) not greater than 75 percent of the State's total 
                fiscal year 2003 obligation authority for funds 
                apportioned for the Federal-aid highway program.
            (2) Limitation on amount.--The total of all allocations 
        under paragraph (1) and allocations, for programs funded under 
        sections 4, 5 (other than subsection (c)), and 6(a) of this Act, 
        of obligation authority made available under an Act making 
        appropriations for the Department of Transportation for fiscal 
        year 2004 shall not exceed $14,101,250,000; except that this 
        limitation shall not apply to $266,250,000 in obligations for 
        minimum guarantee for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004.
            (3) Time period for obligations of funds.--A State shall not 
        obligate any funds for any Federal-aid highway program project 
        after February 29, 2004, until the date of enactment of a 
        multiyear law reauthorizing the Federal-aid highway program.
            (4) Treatment of obligations.--Any obligation of an 
        allocation of obligation authority made under this subsection 
        shall be considered to be an obligation for Federal-aid highways 
        and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 2004 
        for the purposes of the matter under the heading ``(LIMITATION 
        ON OBLIGATIONS)'' under the heading ``FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS'' in 
        an Act making appropriations for the Department of 
        Transportation for fiscal year 2004.

SEC. 3. TRANSFERS OF UNOBLIGATED APPORTIONMENTS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to any other authority of a State to 
transfer funds, for fiscal year 2004, a State may transfer any funds 
apportioned to the State for any program under section 104(b) (including 
amounts apportioned under section 104(b)(3) or set aside, made 
available, or suballocated under section 133(d)) or section 144 of title 
23, United States Code, before, on, or after the date of enactment of 
this Act, that are subject to any limitation on obligations, and that 
are not obligated, to any other of those programs.
    (b) Treatment of Transferred Funds.--Any funds transferred to 
another program under subsection (a) shall be subject to the provisions 
of the program to which the funds are transferred, except that funds 
transferred to a program under section 133 (other than subsections 
(d)(1) and (d)(2)) of title 23, United States Code, shall not be subject 
to section 133(d) of that title.
    (c) Restoration of Apportionments.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of a law reauthorizing the Federal-aid highway program 
        enacted after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        of Transportation shall restore any funds that a

[[Page 117 STAT. 1113]]

        State transferred under subsection (a) for any project not 
        eligible for the funds but for this section to the program 
        category from which the funds were transferred.
            (2) Program category reconciliation.--The Secretary may 
        establish procedures under which funds transferred under 
        subsection (a) from a program category for which funds are not 
        authorized may be restored to the Federal-aid highway program.
            (3) Limitation on statutory construction.--No provision of 
        law, except a statute enacted after the date of enactment of 
        this Act that expressly limits the application of this 
        subsection, shall impair the authority of the Secretary to 
        restore funds pursuant to this subsection.

    (d) Guidance.--The Secretary may issue guidance for use in carrying 
out this section.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    (a) Authorization of Contract Authority.--There shall be available 
from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) for 
administrative expenses of the Federal-aid highway program $187,500,000 
for fiscal year 2004.
    (b) Contract Authority.--Funds made available by this section shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner as if such funds were 
apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, and shall 
be subject to a limitation on obligations for Federal-aid highways and 
highway safety construction programs; except that such funds shall 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 5. OTHER FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations Under Title I of TEA21.--
            (1) Federal lands highways.--
                    (A) Indian reservation roads.--Section 1101(a)(8)(A) 
                of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century 
                (112 Stat. 112) is amended--
                          (i) by inserting before the period at the end 
                      the following: ``and $114,583,333 for the period 
                      of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''; 
                      and
                          (ii) by adding at the end the following: ``The 
                      minimum amount made available for such period that 
                      the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary 
                      of the Interior, shall reserve for Indian 
                      reservation road bridges under section 202(d)(4) 
                      of title 23, United States Code, shall be 
                      $5,416,667 instead of $13,000,000.''.
                    (B) Public lands highways.--Section 1101(a)(8)(B) of 
                such Act (112 Stat. 112) is amended by inserting before 
                the period at the end the following: ``and $102,500,000 
                for the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 
                2004''.
                    (C) Park roads and parkways.--Section 1101(a)(8)(C) 
                of such Act (112 Stat. 112) is amended by inserting 
                before the period at the end the following: ``and 
                $68,750,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
                February 29, 2004''.
                    (D) Refuge roads.--Section 1101(a)(8)(D) of such Act 
                (112 Stat. 112) is amended by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``and $8,333,333 for 
                the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 
                2004''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1114]]

            (2) National corridor planning and development and 
        coordinated border infrastructure programs.--Section 1101(a)(9) 
        of such Act (112 Stat. 112) is amended by inserting before the 
        period at the end the following: ``and $58,333,333 for the 
        period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
            (3) Construction of ferry boats and ferry terminal 
        facilities.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1101(a)(10) of such Act 
                (112 Stat. 113) is amended by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``and $15,833,333 for 
                the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 
                2004''.
                    (B) Set aside for alaska, new jersey, and 
                washington.--To carry out section 1064 of the Intermodal 
                Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 
                129 note; 105 Stat. 2005; 112 Stat. 185), of funds made 
                available by the amendment made by subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) $4,166,667 shall be available for section 
                      1064(d)(2);
                          (ii) $2,083,333 shall be available for section 
                      1064(d)(3); and
                          (iii) $2,083,333 shall be available for 
                      section 1064(d)(4).
            (4) National scenic byways program.--Section 1101(a)(11) of 
        the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 
        113) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' the last place it appears; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $11,458,333 for the period of October 
                1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
            (5) Value pricing pilot program.--Section 1101(a)(12) of 
        such Act (112 Stat. 113) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $4,583,333 for the period of October 
                1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
            (6) Highway use tax evasion projects.--Section 1101(a)(14) 
        of such Act (112 Stat. 113) is amended by inserting before the 
        period at the end the following: ``and $2,083,333 for the period 
        of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
            (7) Commonwealth of puerto rico highway program.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1101(a)(15) of such Act 
                (112 Stat. 113) is amended by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``and $45,833,333 for 
                the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 
                2004''.
                    (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 1214(r) of such 
                Act (112 Stat. 209) is amended by striking ``2003'' and 
                inserting ``2004''.
            (8) Safety grants.--Section 1212(i)(1)(D) of such Act (23 
        U.S.C. 402 note; 112 Stat. 196; 112 Stat. 840) is amended by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``and 
        $208,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 
        2004''.
            (9) Transportation and community and system preservation 
        pilot program.--Section 1221(e)(1) of such Act (23 U.S.C. 101 
        note; 112 Stat. 223) is amended by inserting before the period 
        at the end the following: ``and $10,416,667 for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1115]]

            (10) Transportation infrastructure finance and innovation.--
        Section 188 of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                      subparagraph (D);
                          (ii) by striking the period at the end of 
                      subparagraph (E) and inserting ``; and''; and
                          (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) $58,333,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004.'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(2) by inserting after ``2003'' 
                the following: ``and $833,333 for the period of October 
                1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                          (i) by striking ``2003'' and inserting 
                      ``2004''; and
                          (ii) by striking the period at the end of the 
                      table and inserting the following:

  
  ``2004.............................................$1,083,333,333.''. 

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations Under Title V of TEA21.--
            (1) Surface transportation research.--Section 5001(a)(1) of 
        the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 
        419) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $43,750,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.
            (2) Technology deployment program.--Section 5001(a)(2) of 
        such Act (112 Stat. 419) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $22,916,667 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.
            (3) Training and education.--Section 5001(a)(3) of such Act 
        (112 Stat. 420) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $8,750,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.
            (4) Bureau of transportation statistics.--Section 5001(a)(4) 
        of such Act (112 Stat. 420) is amended by inserting before the 
        period at the end the following: ``, and $12,916,667 for the 
        period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
            (5) ITS standards, research, operational tests, and 
        development.--Section 5001(a)(5) of such Act (112 Stat. 420) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $47,916,667 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.
            (6) ITS deployment.--Section 5001(a)(6) of such Act (112 
        Stat. 420) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1116]]

                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $51,666,667 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.
            (7) University transportation research.--Section 5001(a)(7) 
        of such Act (112 Stat. 420) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``2002, and'' and inserting 
                ``2002,''; and
                    (B) by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, 
                and $11,250,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004''.

    (c) Metropolitan Planning.--
            (1) Authorization of contract authority.--There shall be 
        available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
        Transit Account) to carry out section 134 of title 23, United 
        States Code, $100,000,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004.
            (2) Distribution of funds.--The Secretary shall distribute 
        funds made available by this subsection to the States in 
        accordance with section 104(f)(2) of title 23, United States 
        Code.
            (3) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.

    (d) Territories.--Section 1101 of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (112 Stat. 111-115) is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Territories.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amounts deducted under 
        section 104(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, there shall 
        be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
        Transit Account) for the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands $15,166,667 
        for the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

    (e) Alaska Highway.--Section 1101 of such Act is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Alaska Highway.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amounts deducted under 
        section 104(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, there shall 
        be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
        Transit Account) for the Alaska Highway program under section 
        218 of such title $7,833,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1117]]

    (f) Operation Lifesaver.--Section 1101 of such Act is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Operation Lifesaver.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amount set aside under 
        section 104(d)(1) of title 23, United States Code, there shall 
        be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
        Transit Account) to carry out the operation lifesaver program 
        under such section $208,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

    (g) Bridge Discretionary.--Section 1101 of such Act is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Bridge Discretionary.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be available from the Highway 
        Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) $41,666,667 to 
        the Secretary at the discretion of the Secretary to carry out 
        section 144(g) of title 23, United States Code, for the period 
        of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

    (h) Interstate Maintenance.--Section 1101 of such Act is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Interstate Maintenance.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be available from the Highway 
        Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) $41,666,667 to 
        the Secretary to carry out projects described in section 
        118(c)(1) of title 23, United States Code, for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) Project selection criteria.--
        The <<NOTE: Applicability.>> project selection criteria in 
        section 118(c)(2) of such title shall apply to amounts made 
        available by this subsection.
            ``(3) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs; except that such funds shall remain 
        available until expended.''.

    (i) Recreational Trails Administrative Costs.--Section 1101 of such 
Act is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Recreational Trails Administrative Costs.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amount to be deducted 
        under section 104(h)(1) of title 23, United States Code, there 
        shall be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
        Mass Transit Account) to the Secretary to cover costs of the 
        Secretary described in such section $312,500 for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1118]]

            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

    (j) Railway-Highway Crossing Hazard Elimination in High Speed Rail 
Corridors.--Section 1101 of such Act is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(j) Railway-Highway Crossing Hazard Elimination in High Speed Rail 
Corridors.--
            ``(1) In general.--In lieu of the amount to be deducted 
        under section 104(d)(2) of title 23, United States Code, there 
        shall be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
        Mass Transit Account) to the Secretary for elimination of 
        hazards of railway-highway crossings in accordance with such 
        section $2,187,500 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004; except that not less than $104,167 instead of 
        $250,000 shall be available for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004, for eligible improvements described 
        in subparagraph (E) of such section.
            ``(2) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs.''.

    (k) Nondiscrimination.--Section 1101 of such Act is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Nondiscrimination.--
            ``(1) Skills training.--In lieu of the amount to be deducted 
        under section 140(b) of title 23, United States Code, there 
        shall be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
        Mass Transit Account) to the Secretary for the administration of 
        such section $4,166,667 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004.
            ``(2) On-the-job training.--In lieu of the amount to be 
        deducted under section 140(c) of title 23, United States Code, 
        there shall be available from the Highway Trust Fund (other than 
        the Mass Transit Account) to the Secretary for the 
        administration of such section $4,166,667 for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.
            ``(3) Contract authority.--Funds made available by this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation in the same manner 
        as if the funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, and shall be subject to a limitation on 
        obligations for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs; except that funds made available by 
        paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.''.

    (l) Administration of Funds.--Funds authorized by the amendments 
made by this section shall be administered as if the funds had been 
apportioned, allocated, deducted, or set aside, as the case may be, 
under title 23, United States Code, except that the deductions under 
sections 104(a)(1)(A) and 104(a)(1)(B) of such title shall not apply to 
funds made available by the amendment made by subsection (a)(1) of this 
section.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1119]]

    (m) Reduction of Allocated Programs.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall reduce the amount that would be made available, but 
for this section, for fiscal year 2004 for allocation under a program, 
that is continued both by a law reauthorizing such program enacted after 
the date of enactment of this Act and by this section, by the amount 
made available for such program by this section.
    (n) Program Category Reconciliation.--The Secretary may establish 
procedures under which funds allocated under this section for fiscal 
year 2004 for a program category for which funds are not authorized for 
fiscal year 2004 under a multiyear law reauthorizing the Federal-aid 
highway program enacted after the date of enactment of this Act may be 
restored to the Federal-aid highway program.

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Chapter 1 Highway Safety Programs.--
            (1) Seat belt safety incentive grants.--Section 157 of title 
        23, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(3) by striking ``2001'' and 
                inserting ``2002'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(8)(B) by striking ``2001'' and 
                inserting ``2002'';
                    (C) in subsection (b) by striking ``2002'' and 
                inserting ``2003'';
                    (D) in subsection (c)(1) by striking ``2002'' and 
                inserting ``2003'';
                    (E) in subsection (c)(2) by striking ``2002'' and 
                inserting ``2003'';
                    (F) in subsection (f)(4) by striking ``2002'' and 
                inserting ``2003'';
                    (G) in subsection (g)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``and''; and
                          (ii) by inserting before the period at the end 
                      the following: ``, and $46,666,667 for the period 
                      of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004'';
                    (H) in the heading to subsection (g)(3)(B) by 
                striking ``2003'' and inserting ``2004''; and
                    (I) in subsection (g)(3)(B) by striking ``2003'' and 
                inserting ``2004''.
            (2) Prevention of intoxicated driver incentive grants.--
        Section 163(e)(1) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $50,000,000 for the period of October 
                1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.

    (b) Chapter 4 Highway Safety Programs.--Section 2009(a)(1) of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 337) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, and $68,750,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004''.

    (c) Highway Safety Research and Development.--Section 2009(a)(2) of 
such Act (112 Stat. 337) is amended by inserting after ``2003'' the 
following: ``, and $30,000,000 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
through February 29, 2004''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1120]]

    (d) Occupant Protection Incentive Grants.--Section 2009(a)(3) of 
such Act (112 Stat. 337) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
        ``, and $8,333,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004''.

    (e) Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Incentive Grants.--
            (1) Extension of program.--Section 410 of title 23, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(3) by striking ``6'' and 
                inserting ``7''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a)(4)(C) by striking ``and 
                sixth'' and inserting ``, sixth, and seventh''; and
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 2009(a)(4) of 
        such Act (112 Stat. 337) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' the last place it appears; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and $16,666,667 for the period of October 
                1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.

    (f) National Driver Register.--Section 2009(a)(6) of such Act (112 
Stat. 338) is amended by inserting after ``2003'' the following: ``, and 
$833,333 for the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004''.
    (g) Allocations.--Section 2009(b) of such Act (112 Stat. 338) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``2003'' and inserting 
        ``2004''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``2003'' and inserting 
        ``2004''.

    (h) Applicability of Title 23.--Section 2009(c) of such Act (112 
Stat. 338) is amended by striking ``2003'' and inserting ``2004''.

SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PROGRAM.

    (a) Administrative Expenses.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be available from the Highway 
        Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) for the 
        Secretary of Transportation to pay administrative expenses of 
        the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration $71,487,500 for 
        the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds authorized by this subsection may 
        be used for personnel costs; administrative infrastructure; 
        rent; information technology; and programs for research and 
        technology, regulatory development, and other operating expenses 
        and similar matters.

    (b) Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program.--Section 31104(a) of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(7) Not more than $68,750,000 for the period of October 1, 
        2003, through February 29, 2004.''.

    (c) Information Systems and Commercial Driver's License Grants.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriation.--Section 31107(a) of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (3) and inserting a semicolon;

[[Page 117 STAT. 1121]]

                    (C) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (4) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) $8,333,333 for the period of October 1, 2003 through 
        February 29, 2004.''.
            (2) Emergency cdl grants.--From amounts made available by 
        section 31107(a) of title 49, United States Code, for the period 
        of October 1, 2003 through February 29, 2004, the Secretary of 
        Transportation may make grants of up to $416,667 to a State 
        whose commercial driver's license program may fail to meet the 
        compliance requirements of section 31311(a) of such title.

    (d) Crash Causation Study.--There shall be available from the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) for the Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Administration to continue the crash causation 
study required by section 224 of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement 
Act of 1999 (49 U.S.C. 31100 note; 113 Stat. 1770-1771), $416,667 for 
the period of October 1, 2003 through February 29, 2004.
    (e) Contract Authority.--Funds made available by this section shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner as if such funds were 
apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code.

SEC. 8. EXTENSION OF FEDERAL TRANSIT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Allocating Amounts.--Section 5309(m) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``and for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004'' after ``2003'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B) by inserting after clause (ii) the 
        following:
                          ``(iii) October 1, 2003 through february 29, 
                      2004.--Of the amounts made available under 
                      paragraph (1)(B), $4,333,333 shall be available 
                      for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
                      February 29, 2004, for capital projects described 
                      in clause (i).'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)(B) by inserting after ``2003'' the 
        following: ``(and $1,250,000 shall be available for the period 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004)''; and
            (4) in paragraph (3)(C) by inserting after ``2003'' the 
        following: ``(and $20,833,334 shall be available for the period 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004)''.

    (b) Apportionment of Appropriations for Fixed Guideway 
Modernization.--
            (1) Special <<NOTE: Urban areas. 49 USC 5337 note.>> rule 
        for october 1, 2003 through february 29, 2004.--The Secretary of 
        Transportation shall determine the amount that each urbanized 
        area is to be apportioned for fixed guideway modernization under 
        section 5337 of title 49, United States Code, on a pro rata 
        basis to reflect the partial fiscal year 2004 funding made 
        available by sections 5338(b)(2)(A)(vi) and 5338(b)(2)(B)(vi) of 
        such title.
            (2) Technical amendment.--Section 5337 of such title is 
        amended by striking the first subsection (e), relating to 
        special rule.

    (c) Formula Grants Authorizations.--Section 5338(a) of such title is 
amended--

[[Page 117 STAT. 1122]]

            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (2)(A)(iv) 
        and (2)(B)(iv);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (2)(A)(v) and (2)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $1,292,948,344 for the period of 
                      October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.'';
            (5) by adding at the end in paragraph (2)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $323,459,169 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (6) in paragraph (2)(C) by inserting after ``a fiscal year'' 
        the following: ``(other than for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004)''.

    (d) Allocation of Formula Grant Funds for October 1, 2003, Through 
February 29, 2004.--Of the aggregate of amounts made available by and 
appropriated under section 5338(a)(2) of title 49, United States Code, 
for the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004--
            (1) $2,020,813 shall be available to the Alaska Railroad for 
        improvements to its passenger operations under section 5307 of 
        such title;
            (2) $20,833,334 shall be available to carry out section 5308 
        of such title; and
            (3) of the remaining amount--
                    (A) 2.4 percent shall be available to provide 
                transportation services to elderly individuals and 
                individuals with disabilities under section 5310 of such 
                title;
                    (B) 6.37 percent shall be available to provide 
                financial assistance for other than urbanized areas 
                under section 5311 of such title; and
                    (C) 91.23 percent shall be available to provide 
                financial assistance for urbanized areas under section 
                5307 of such title.

    (e) Capital Program Authorizations.--Section 5338(b) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (2)(A)(iv) 
        and (2)(B)(iv);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (2)(A)(v) and (2)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $1,022,503,342 for the period of 
                      October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $255,801,669 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.''.

    (f) Planning Authorizations and Allocations.--Section 
5338(c) <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338.>> is amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';

[[Page 117 STAT. 1123]]

            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (2)(A)(iv) 
        and (2)(B)(iv);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (2)(A)(v) and (2)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $24,636,667 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.'';
            (5) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $6,100,000 for the period of October 1, 
                      2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (6) in paragraph (2)(C) by inserting ``or any portion of a 
        fiscal year'' after ``fiscal year''.

    (g) Research Authorizations.--Section 5338(d) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (2)(A)(iv) 
        and (2)(B)(iv);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (2)(A)(v) and (2)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $16,536,667 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.'';
            (5) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $4,095,000 for the period of October 1, 
                      2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (6) in paragraph (2)(C) by inserting after ``a fiscal year'' 
        the following: ``(other than for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004)''.

    (h) Allocation of Research Funds for October 1, 2003, Through 
February 29, 2004.--Of the funds made available by or appropriated under 
section 5338(d)(2) of title 49, United States Code, for the period of 
October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004--
            (1) not less than $2,187,500 shall be available for 
        providing rural transportation assistance under section 
        5311(b)(2) of such title;
            (2) not less than $3,437,500 shall be available for carrying 
        out transit cooperative research programs under section 5313(a) 
        of such title;
            (3) not less than $1,666,667 shall be available to carry out 
        programs under the National Transit Institute under section 5315 
        of such title, including not more than $416,667 shall be 
        available to carry out section 5315(a)(16) of such title; and
            (4) the remainder shall be available for carrying out 
        national planning and research programs under sections 
        5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, and 5322 of such title.

    (i) University Transportation Research Authorizations.--Section 
5338(e) of such title is amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A) by inserting after ``2003'' the 
        following: ``and $2,020,833 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004'';

[[Page 117 STAT. 1124]]

            (3) in paragraph (2)(B) by inserting after ``2003'' the 
        following: ``and $505,833 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004''; and
            (4) in clauses (i) and (iii) of paragraph (2)(C) by 
        inserting after ``fiscal year'' the following: ``(other than for 
        the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004)''.

    (j) Allocation of University Transportation Research Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Of the amounts made available under section 
        5338(e)(2)(A) of title 49, United States Code, for the period 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004--
                    (A) $833,333 shall be available for the center 
                identified in section 5505(j)(4)(A) of such title; and
                    (B) $833,333 shall be available for the center 
                identified in section 5505(j)(4)(F) of such title.
            (2) Training and curriculum development.--Notwithstanding 
        section 5338(e)(2) of such title, any amounts made available 
        under such section for such period that remain after 
        distribution under paragraph (1), shall be available for the 
        purposes identified in section 3015(d) of the Transportation 
        Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 857).
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 3015(d)(2) of the 
        Transportation Equity Act for the 21st <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338 
        note.>> Century (112 Stat. 857) is amended by inserting ``and in 
        the period October 31, 2003, through February 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003''.

    (k) Administration Authorizations.--Section 5338(f) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (2)(A)(iv) 
        and (2)(B)(iv);
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (2)(A)(v) and (2)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $24,585,834 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $6,150,833 for the period of October 1, 
                      2003, through February 29, 2004.''.

    (l) Job Access and Reverse Commute Program.--Section 3037(l) of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (49 U.S.C. 5309 note; 112 
Stat. 391-392) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraphs (1)(A)(iv) 
        and (1)(B)(iv);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraphs 
        (1)(A)(v) and (1)(B)(v) and inserting ``; and'';
            (3) by adding at the end of paragraph (1)(A) the following:
                          ``(vi) $50,519,167 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.'';
            (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (1)(B) the following:
                          ``(vi) $12,638,333 for the period of October 
                      1, 2003, through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (5) by inserting before the period at the end of paragraph 
        (2) the following: ``; except that in the period of October 1, 
        2003, through February 29, 2004, $4,166,667 shall be used for 
        such projects''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1125]]

    (m) Rural Transportation Accessibility Incentive Program.--Section 
3038(g) of such Act (49 U.S.C. 5310 note; 112 Stat. 393) is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the following:
                    ``(F) $2,187,500 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
                through February 29, 2004.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting after ``2003'' the 
        following: ``(and $708,333 shall be available for the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004)''.

    (n) Urbanized Area Formula Grants.--Section 5307(b) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the heading to paragraph (2) by inserting ``and for 
        the period of october 1, 2003, through february 29, 2004'' after 
        ``2003'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and for the period of October 1, 
                2003, through February 29, 2004'' after ``2003,'';
                    (B) by striking ``or'' at the end of clause (ii);
                    (C) by striking the period at the end of clause 
                (iii) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(iv) a portion of the area was not 
                      designated as an urbanized area as determined 
                      under the 1990 Federal decennial census and 
                      received assistance under section 5311 in fiscal 
                      year 2002.'';
            (3) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) the following: 
        ``Each portion of an area not designated as an urbanized area 
        under the 1990 Federal decennial census and eligible to receive 
        funds under subparagraph (A)(iv) shall receive an amount of 
        funds made available to carry out this section that is no less 
        than the amount the portion of the area received under section 
        5311 in fiscal year 2002.''.

    (o) Obligation Ceiling.--Section 3040 of the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 394) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) $3,042,501,691 for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004.''.

    (p) Fuel Cell Bus and Bus Facilities Program.--Section 3015(b) of 
such Act (112 Stat. 361) is amended by inserting ``(or, in the case of 
the period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004, $2,020,833)'' 
after ``$4,850,000''.
    (q) Advanced Technology Pilot Project.--Section 3015(c)(2) of such 
Act (49 U.S.C. 322 note; 112 Stat. 361) <<NOTE: 23 USC 322 note.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and for the period of October 1, 2003, 
        through February 29, 2004,'' after ``2003,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and $2,083,333 for such period'' after 
        ``$5,000,000 per fiscal year''.

    (r) Projects for New Fixed Guideway Systems and Extensions to 
Existing Systems.--Subsections (a), (b), and (c)(1) of section 3030 of 
such Act (112 Stat. 373-381) are amended by inserting ``and for the 
period of October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004,'' after ``2003''.
    (s) New Jersey Urban Core Project.--Subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) 
of section 3031(a)(3) of the Intermodal Surface

[[Page 117 STAT. 1126]]

Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2122; 112 Stat. 379) 
are amended by inserting ``and for the period of October 1, 2003, 
through February 29, 2004,'' after ``2003,''.
    (t) Treatment of Funds.--Amounts <<NOTE: 23 USC 101 note.>> made 
available under the amendments made by this section shall be treated for 
purposes of section 1101(b) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (23 U.S.C. 101 note) as amounts made available for programs 
under title III of such Act.

SEC. 9. SPORT FISHING AND BOATING SAFETY.

    (a) Funding for National Outreach and Communications Program.--
Section 4(c) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 
U.S.C. 777c(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
            (2) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (5); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) $4,166,667 for the period of October 1, 2003, through 
        February 29, 2004;''.

    (b) Clean Vessel Act Funding.--Section 4(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
777c(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) First 5 months of fiscal year 2004.--For the period of 
        October 1, 2003, through February 29, 2004, of the balance of 
        each annual appropriation remaining after making the 
        distribution under subsection (a), an amount equal to 
        $34,166,667, reduced by 82 percent of the amount appropriated 
        for that fiscal year from the Boat Safety Account of the Aquatic 
        Resources Trust Fund established by section 9504 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 to carry out the purposes of section 
        13106(a) of title 46, United States Code, shall be used as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) $4,166,667 shall be available to the Secretary 
                of the Interior for 3 fiscal years for obligation for 
                qualified projects under section 5604(c) of the Clean 
                Vessel Act of 1992 (33 U.S.C. 1322 note).
                    ``(B) $3,333,333 shall be available to the Secretary 
                of the Interior for 3 fiscal years for obligation for 
                qualified projects under section 7404(d) of the 
                Sportfishing and Boating Safety Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 
                777g-1(d)).
                    ``(C) The balance remaining after the application of 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be transferred to the 
                Secretary of Transportation and shall be expended for 
                State recreational boating safety programs under section 
                13106 of title 46, United States Code.''.

    (c) Boat Safety Funds.--Section 13106(c) of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Of the amount transferred to the Secretary of Transportation 
under paragraph (4) of section 4(b) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c(b)), $2,083,333 is available to the 
Secretary for payment of expenses of the Coast Guard for personnel and 
activities directly related to coordinating and carrying out the 
national recreational boating safety program under this title, of which 
$833,333 shall be available to the Secretary only to ensure compliance 
with chapter 43 of this title. No funds available to the Secretary under 
this subsection may be used to

[[Page 117 STAT. 1127]]

replace funding traditionally provided through general appropriations, 
nor for any purposes except those purposes authorized by this section. 
Amounts made available by this subsection shall remain available until 
expended. <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> The Secretary shall 
publish annually in the Federal Register a detailed accounting of the 
projects, programs, and activities funded under this subsection.''.

SEC. 10. BUDGET LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Adjustments to Annualized Discretionary Spending Limits.--In the 
matter that precedes subparagraph (A) of section 251(b)(2) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, <<NOTE: 2 USC 
901.>> strike ``through 2002''.

    (b) Discretionary Spending Limits.--Section 251(c) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended as follows:
            (1) Strike paragraphs (1) through (7) and redesignate 
        paragraph (8) (which relates to fiscal year 2004) as paragraph 
        (1) and in such redesignated paragraph strike ``(1) with respect 
        to fiscal year 2004'', redesignate the remaining matter as 
        subparagraph (C), and before such redesignated matter insert the 
        following:
            ``(1) with respect to fiscal year 2004--
                    ``(A) for the highway category: $31,834,000,000 in 
                outlays;
                    ``(B) for the mass transit category: $1,462,000,000 
                in new budget authority and $6,629,000,000 in outlays; 
                and''.
            (2) Redesignate paragraphs (9) through (16) as paragraphs 
        (2) through (9).

    (c) Category Defined.--Section 250(c)(4) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 <<NOTE: 2 USC 900.>> is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B) by inserting after ``Century'' the 
        following: ``and the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
        2003''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by inserting after ``Century'' the first place 
                it appears the following: ``and the Surface 
                Transportation Extension Act of 2003''; and
                    (B) by striking ``that Act'' and inserting ``those 
                Acts''.

    (d) Conformance With the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for 
Fiscal Year 2004.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
adjustments made pursuant to section 110(a)(2) of title 23, United 
States Code, to sums authorized to be appropriated from the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out each of 
the Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs (other 
than emergency relief) in fiscal year 2004 shall be deemed to be zero.
    (e) Sense of Congress on Adjustment to Align Highway Spending With 
Revenues.--It is the sense of Congress that, in any multiyear 
reauthorization of the Federal-aid highway program, the alignment of 
highway spending with revenues under section 251(b)(1)(B)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 should be 
restructured to minimize year-to-year fluctuations in highway spending 
levels and to ensure the uniform enforcement of such levels.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1128]]

SEC. 11. LEVEL OF OBLIGATION LIMITATIONS.

    (a) Highway Category.--Section 8103(a) of the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (2 U.S.C. 901 note; 112 Stat. 492) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) for fiscal year 2004, $34,498,000,000.''.

    (b) Mass Transit Category.--Section 8103(b) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
901 note; 112 Stat. 492) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) for fiscal year 2004, $7,303,000,000.''.

    (c) Treatment of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available under this Act, including the amendments made by 
this Act, shall be deemed to be zero for the purposes of section 110 of 
the title 23, United States Code.

SEC. 12. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF TRUST FUNDS FOR 
            OBLIGATIONS UNDER TEA-21.

    (a) Highway Trust Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>> is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``October 1, 2003'' and inserting ``March 1, 
                2004'',
                    (B) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (D),
                    (C) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (E) and inserting ``, or'',
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (E), the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) authorized to be paid out of the Highway Trust 
                Fund under the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2003.'', and
                    (E) in the matter after subparagraph (F), as added 
                by this paragraph, by striking ``TEA 21 Restoration 
                Act'' and inserting ``Surface Transportation Extension 
                Act of 2003''.
            (2) Mass transit account.--Paragraph (3) of section 9503(e) 
        of such Code is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``October 1, 2003'' and inserting ``March 1, 
                2004'',
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end of such subparagraph,
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``or'' after 
                ``Century,'',
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2003,'', and
                    (E) in the matter after subparagraph (D), as added 
                by this paragraph, by striking ``TEA 21 Restoration 
                Act'' and inserting ``Surface Transportation Extension 
                Act of 2003''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1129]]

            (3) Exception to limitation on transfers.--Subparagraph (B) 
        of section 9503(b)(5) of such Code <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503.>> is 
        amended by striking ``October 1, 2003'' and inserting ``March 1, 
        2004''.

    (b) Aquatic Resources Trust Fund.--
            (1) Sport fish restoration account.--Paragraph (2) of 
        section 9504(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 
        USC 9504.>> is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Wildlife and 
                Sport Fish Restoration Programs Improvement Act of 
                2000'' and inserting ``Surface Transportation Extension 
                Act of 2003'', and
                    (B) in subparagraphs (B) and (C), by striking ``TEA 
                21 Restoration Act'' in each such subparagraph and 
                inserting ``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2003''.
            (2) Boat safety account.--Subsection (c) of section 9504 of 
        such Code is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``October 1, 2003'' and inserting 
                ``March 1, 2004'', and
                    (B) by striking ``TEA 21 Restoration Act'' and 
                inserting ``Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
                2003''.
            (3) Exception to limitation on transfers.--Paragraph (2) of 
        section 9504(d) of such Code is amended by striking ``October 1, 
        2003'' and inserting ``March 1, 2004''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: 26 USC 9503 note.>> amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

    (d) Temporary Rule Regarding Adjustments.--During the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
February 29, 2004, for purposes of making any estimate under section 
9503(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 of receipts of the Highway 
Trust Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall treat--
            (1) each expiring provision of paragraphs (1) through (4) of 
        section 9503(b) of such Code which is related to appropriations 
        or transfers to such Fund to have been extended through the end 
        of the 24-month period referred to in section 9503(d)(1)(B) of 
        such Code, and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1130]]

            (2) with respect to each tax imposed under the sections 
        referred to in section 9503(b)(1) of such Code, the rate of such 
        tax during the 24-month period referred to in section 
        9503(d)(1)(B) of such Code to be the same as the rate of such 
        tax as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Approved September 30, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3087 (S. 1640):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-54 accompanying S. 1640 (Comm. on Environment 
and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Sept. 24, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>