[108th Congress Public Law 229]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ229.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 645]]

Public Law 108-229
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
        To provide for expansion of Sleeping Bear Dunes National 
            Lakeshore. <<NOTE: May 28, 2004 -  [H.R. 408]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Michigan. 16 USC 
460x-7 note.>> 

SECTION 1. EXPANSION OF SLEEPING BEAR DUNES NATIONAL LAKESHORE.

    (a) In General.--When title to the land described in subsection (b) 
has vested in the United States in fee simple, the boundary of Sleeping 
Bear Dunes National Lakeshore is revised to include such land in that 
park.
    (b) Land Described.--The land referred to in subsection (a) consists 
of approximately 104.45 acres of unimproved lands generally depicted on 
National Park Service map number 634/80078, entitled ``Bayberry Mills, 
Inc. Crystal River, MI Proposed Expansion Unit to Sleeping Bear Dunes 
National Lakeshore''. The Secretary of the Interior shall keep such map 
on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices 
of the National Park Service.
    (c) Purchase of Lands Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
acquire the land described in subsection (b), only by purchase from a 
willing seller.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON ACQUISITION BY EXCHANGE OR CONVEYANCE.

    The Secretary of the Interior may not acquire any of the land 
described in subsection (b) of section 1 through any exchange or 
conveyance of lands that are within the boundary of the Sleeping Bear 
Dunes National Lakeshore as of the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Approved May 28, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 408:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-292 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-240 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 149 (2003):
                                    Oct. 8, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 150 (2004):
                                    May 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>