[108th Congress Public Law 428]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ428.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 2432]]

Public Law 108-428
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To extend the liability indemnification regime for the commercial space 
    transportation industry. <<NOTE: Nov. 30, 2004 -  [H.R. 5245]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. INDEMNIFICATION EXTENSION.

    Section 70113(f) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2004.'' and inserting ``December 31, 2009.''.

SEC. 2. STUDY.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall enter into an arrangement with a 
nonprofit entity for the conduct of an independent comprehensive study 
of the liability risk sharing regime in the United States for commercial 
space transportation under section 70113 of title 49, United States 
Code. To ensure that Congress has a full analysis of the liability risk 
sharing regime, the study shall assess methods by which the current 
system could be eliminated, including an estimate of the time required 
to implement each of the methods assessed. The study shall assess 
whether any alternative steps would be needed to maintain a viable and 
competitive United States space transportation industry if the current 
regime were eliminated. In conducting the assessment under this section, 
input from commercial space transportation insurance experts shall be 
sought. The study also shall examine liability risk sharing in other 
nations with commercial launch capability and evaluate the direct and 
indirect impact that ending this regime would have on the 
competitiveness of the United States commercial

[[Page 118 STAT. 2433]]

space launch industry in relation to foreign commercial launch providers 
and on United States assured access to space.

    Approved November 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5245:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Oct. 8, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>