[108th Congress Public Law 42]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ042.108]

  
Public Law 108-42
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the San 
    Gabriel River Watershed, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 1, 
                          2003 -  [H.R. 519]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: San Gabriel River Watershed 
Study Act. California.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``San Gabriel River Watershed Study 
Act''.

SEC. 2. STUDY OF SAN GABRIEL RIVER WATERSHED.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this 
Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall conduct a special resource 
study of the following areas:
            (1) The San Gabriel River and its tributaries north of and 
        including the city of Santa Fe Springs.
            (2) The San Gabriel Mountains within the territory of the 
        San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles Rivers and Mountains 
        Conservancy (as defined in section 32603(c)(1)(C) of the State 
        of California Public Resource Code).

    (b) Study <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Conduct and Completion.--Section 
8(c) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)) shall apply to the conduct 
and completion of the study conducted under this section.

    (c) Consultation with Federal, State, and Local Governments.--In 
conducting the study under this section, the Secretary shall consult 
with the San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles Rivers and Mountains 
Conservancy and other appropriate Federal, State, and local governmental 
entities.
    (d) Considerations.--In conducting the study under this section, the 
Secretary shall consider regional flood control and drainage needs and 
publicly owned infrastructure such as wastewater treatment facilities.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> REPORT.

    Not later than 3 years after funds are made available for this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives a report on the findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations of the study.

    Approved July 1, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 519:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-65 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Mar. 19, considered and passed House.
            June 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>