[108th Congress Public Law 192]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ192.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 2873]]

Public Law 108-192
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the Carter G. Woodson Home National Historic Site in the 
     District of Columbia, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 19, 
                         2003 -  [H.R. 1012]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Carter G. Woodson Home 
National Historic Site Act. 16 USC 461 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Carter G. Woodson Home National 
Historic Site Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) Carter g. woodson home.--The term ``Carter G. Woodson 
        Home'' means the property located at 1538 Ninth Street, 
        Northwest, in the District of Columbia, as depicted on the map.
            (2) Historic site.--The term ``historic site'' means the 
        Carter G. Woodson Home National Historic Site.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Carter 
        G. Woodson Home National Historic Site'', numbered 876/82338-A 
        and dated July 22, 2003.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. CARTER G. WOODSON HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--Upon acquisition by the Secretary of the Carter 
G. Woodson Home, or interests therein, the Secretary shall establish the 
historic site as a unit of the National Park System by publication of a 
notice to that effect in the Federal Register.
    (b) Additions to Historic Site.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire any of the 3 
        properties immediately north of the Carter G. Woodson Home 
        located at 1540, 1542, and 1544 Ninth Street, Northwest, 
        described on the map as ``Potential Additions to National 
        Historic Site'', for addition to the historic site.
            (2) Boundary revision.--Upon the acquisition of any of the 
        properties described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        revise the boundaries of the historic site to include the 
        property.

    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service, 
Department of the Interior.
    (d) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire the Carter G. 
Woodson Home or any of the properties described in subsection (b)(1), 
including interests therein, and any improvements

[[Page 117 STAT. 2874]]

to the land by donation, purchase from a willing seller with donated or 
appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (e) Administration.--(1) The Secretary shall administer the historic 
site in accordance with this Act and with laws generally applicable to 
units of the National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 
(16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
seq.).
    (2) General Management Plan.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Secretary 
shall prepare a general management plan for the historic site not later 
than three years after the date on which funds are made available for 
that purpose.

SEC. 4. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements 
with public or private entities to provide public interpretation and 
education of African-American heritage in the Shaw area of the District 
of Columbia.
    (b) Rehabilitation.--In order to achieve cost efficiencies in the 
restoration of properties within the historic site, the Secretary may 
enter into an agreement with public or private entities to restore and 
rehabilitate the Carter G. Woodson Home and other properties within the 
boundary of the historic site, subject to such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary deems necessary.
    (c) Agreement With the Association for the Study of African-American 
Life and History.--In order to reestablish the historical connection 
between the Carter G. Woodson Home and the association Dr. Woodson 
founded, and to facilitate interpretation of Dr. Woodson's achievements, 
the Secretary may enter into an agreement with The Association for the 
Study of African-American Life and History that allows the association 
to use a portion of the historic site for its own administrative 
purposes. Such agreement shall ensure that the association's use of a 
portion of the historic site is consistent with the administration of 
the historic site, including appropriate public access and rent, and 
such other terms and conditions as the Secretary deems necessary.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved December 19, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1012:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-138 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            May 14, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 24, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Dec. 8, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>