[108th Congress Public Law 15]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ015.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 615]]

Public Law 108-15
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To ensure continuity for the design of the 5-cent coin, establish the 
    Citizens <<NOTE: Apr. 23, 2003 -  [H.R. 258]>> Coinage Advisory 
                   Committee, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: American 5-Cent Coin Design 
Continuity Act of 2003.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American 5-Cent Coin Design 
Continuity Act of 2003''.

          TITLE I--UNITED STATES 5-CENT COIN DESIGN CONTINUITY

SEC. 101. DESIGNS <<NOTE: 31 USC 5101 note.>> ON THE 5-CENT COIN.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b) and after consulting with 
the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts, 
the Secretary of the Treasury may change the design on the obverse and 
the reverse of the 5-cent coin for coins issued in 2003, 2004, and 2005 
in recognition of the bicentennial of the Louisiana Purchase and the 
expedition of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
    (b) Design Specifications.--
            (1) Obverse.--If the Secretary of the Treasury elects to 
        change the obverse of 5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, and 
        2005, the design shall depict a likeness of President Thomas 
        Jefferson, different from the likeness that appeared on the 
        obverse of the 5-cent coins issued during 2002, in recognition 
        of his role with respect to the Louisiana Purchase and the 
        commissioning of the Lewis and Clark expedition.
            (2) Reverse.--If the Secretary of the Treasury elects to 
        change the reverse of the 5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, 
        and 2005, the design selected shall depict images that are 
        emblematic of the Louisiana Purchase or the expedition of 
        Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
            (3) Other inscriptions.--5-cent coins issued during 2003, 
        2004, and 2005 shall continue to meet all other requirements for 
        inscriptions and designations applicable to circulating coins 
        under section 5112(d)(1) of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 102. DESIGNS ON THE 5-CENT COIN SUBSEQUENT TO THE RECOGNITION OF 
            THE BICENTENNIAL OF THE LOUISIANA PURCHASE AND THE LEWIS AND 
            CLARK EXPEDITION.

    (a) In General.--Section 5112(d)(1) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after the 4th sentence the following

[[Page 117 STAT. 616]]

new sentence: ``Subject to other provisions of this subsection, the 
obverse of any 5-cent coin issued after December 31, 2005, shall bear 
the likeness of Thomas Jefferson and the reverse of any such 5-cent coin 
shall bear an image of the home of Thomas Jefferson at Monticello.''.
    (b) Design Consultation.--The 2d sentence of section 5112(d)(2) of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, after 
consulting with the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee and the 
Commission of Fine Arts,'' after ``The Secretary may''.

SEC. 103. CITIZENS COINAGE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5135 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:

``Sec. 5135. Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is hereby established the Citizens 
        Coinage Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the 
        `Advisory Committee') to advise the Secretary of the Treasury on 
        the selection of themes and designs for coins.
            ``(2) Oversight of advisory committee.--The Advisory 
        Committee shall be subject to the authority of the Secretary of 
        the Treasury (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
        `Secretary').

    ``(b) Membership.--
            ``(1) Appointment.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 
        11 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
                    ``(A) Seven persons appointed by the Secretary--
                          ``(i) one of whom shall be appointed from 
                      among individuals who are specially qualified to 
                      serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their 
                      education, training, or experience as a nationally 
                      or internationally recognized curator in the 
                      United States of a numismatic collection;
                          ``(ii) one of whom shall be appointed from 
                      among individuals who are specially qualified to 
                      serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their 
                      experience in the medallic arts or sculpture;
                          ``(iii) one of whom shall be appointed from 
                      among individuals who are specially qualified to 
                      serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their 
                      education, training, or experience in American 
                      history;
                          ``(iv) one of whom shall be appointed from 
                      among individuals who are specially qualified to 
                      serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of their 
                      education, training, or experience in numismatics; 
                      and
                          ``(v) three of whom shall be appointed from 
                      among individuals who can represent the interests 
                      of the general public in the coinage of the United 
                      States.
                    ``(B) Four persons appointed by the Secretary on the 
                basis of the recommendations of the following officials 
                who shall make the selection for such recommendation 
                from among citizens who
are specially qualified to serve on the Advisory Committee by virtue of 
their education, training, or experience:
                          ``(i) One person recommended by the Speaker of 
                      the House of Representatives.

[[Page 117 STAT. 617]]

                          ``(ii) One person recommended by the minority 
                      leader of the House of Representatives.
                          ``(iii) One person recommended by the majority 
                      leader of the Senate.
                          ``(iv) One person recommended by the minority 
                      leader of the Senate.
            ``(2) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), members of the Advisory Committee 
                shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
                    ``(B) Terms of initial appointees.--As designated by 
                the Secretary at the time of appointment, of the members 
                first appointed--
                          ``(i) four of the members appointed under 
                      paragraph (1)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 
                      4 years;
                          ``(ii) the four members appointed under 
                      paragraph (1)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 
                      3 years; and
                          ``(iii) three of the members appointed under 
                      paragraph (1)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 
                      2 years.
            ``(3) Preservation of public advisory status.--No individual 
        may be appointed to the Advisory Committee while serving as an 
        officer or employee of the Federal Government.
            ``(4) Continuation of service.--Each appointed member may 
        continue to serve for up to 6 months after the expiration of the 
        term of office to which such member was appointed until a 
        successor has been appointed.
            ``(5) Vacancy and removal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any vacancy on the Advisory 
                Committee shall be filled in the manner in which the 
                original appointment was made.
                    ``(B) Removal.--Advisory Committee members shall 
                serve at the discretion of the Secretary and may be 
                removed at any time for good cause.
            ``(6) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Advisory 
        Committee shall be appointed for a term of 1 year by the 
        Secretary from among the members of the Advisory Committee.
            ``(7) Pay and expenses.--Members of the Advisory Committee 
        shall serve without pay for such service but each member of the 
        Advisory Committee shall be reimbursed from the United States 
        Mint Public Enterprise Fund for travel, lodging, meals, and 
        incidental expenses incurred in connection with attendance of 
        such members at meetings of the Advisory Committee in the same 
        amounts and under the same conditions as employees of the United 
        States Mint who engage in official travel, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(8) Meetings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall meet 
                at the call of the Secretary, the chairperson, or a 
                majority of the members, but not less frequently than 
                twice annually.
                    ``(B) Open meetings.--Each meeting of the Advisory 
                Committee shall be open to the public.
                    ``(C) Prior <<NOTE: Federal Register, 
                publication.>> notice of meetings.--Timely notice of 
                each meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be 
                published in the Federal Register, and timely notice of 
                each meeting shall be made to trade publications and 
                publications of general circulation.

[[Page 117 STAT. 618]]

            ``(9) Quorum.--Seven members of the Advisory Committee shall 
        constitute a quorum.

    ``(c) Duties of the Advisory Committee.--The duties of the Advisory 
Committee are as follows:
            ``(1) Advising the Secretary of the Treasury on any theme or 
        design proposals relating to circulating coinage, bullion 
        coinage, congressional gold medals and national and other medals 
        produced by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with 
        section 5111 of title 31, United States Code.
            ``(2) Advising the Secretary of the Treasury with regard 
        to--
                    ``(A) the events, persons, or places that the 
                Advisory Committee recommends be commemorated by the 
                issuance of commemorative coins in each of the 5 
                calendar years succeeding the year in which a 
                commemorative coin designation is made;
                    ``(B) the mintage level for any commemorative coin 
                recommended under subparagraph (A); and
                    ``(C) the proposed designs for commemorative coins.

    ``(d) Expenses.--The expenses of the Advisory Committee that the 
Secretary of the Treasury determines to be reasonable and appropriate 
shall be paid by the Secretary from the United States Mint Public 
Enterprise Fund.
    ``(e) Administrative Support, Technical Services, and Advice.--Upon 
the request of the Advisory Committee, or as necessary for the Advisory 
Committee to carry out the responsibilities of the Advisory Committee 
under this section, the Director of the United States Mint shall provide 
to the Advisory Committee the administrative support, technical 
services, and advice that the Secretary of the Treasury determines to be 
reasonable and appropriate.
    ``(f) Consultation Authority.--In carrying out the duties of the 
Advisory Committee under this section, the Advisory Committee may 
consult with the Commission of Fine Arts.
    ``(g) Annual Report.--
            ``(1)  <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Required.--Not later than 
        September 30 of each year, the Advisory Committee shall submit a 
        report to the Secretary, the Committee on Financial Services of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
        Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. Should circumstances 
        arise in which the Advisory Committee cannot meet the September 
        30 deadline in any year, the Secretary shall advise the 
        Chairpersons of the Committee on Financial Services of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs of the Senate of the reasons for such delay and 
        the date on which the submission of the report is anticipated.
            ``(2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        describe the activities of the Advisory Committee during the 
        preceding year and the reports and recommendations made by the 
        Advisory Committee to the Secretary of the Treasury.

    ``(h) Federal Advisory Committee Act Does Not Apply.--Subject to the 
requirements of subsection (b)(8), the Federal Advisory Committee Act 
shall not apply with respect to the Committee.''.
    (b)  <<NOTE: Effective date. 31 USC 5135 note.>> Abolishment of 
Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee.--Effective on the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory 
Committee (established

[[Page 117 STAT. 619]]

by section 5135 of title 31, United States Code, as in effect before the 
amendment made by subsection (a)) is hereby abolished.

    (c)  <<NOTE: 31 USC 5135 note.>> Continuity of Members of Citizens 
Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee.--Subject to paragraphs (1) and 
(2) of section 5135(b) of title 31, United States Code, any person who 
is a member of the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, other than the member of such 
committee who is appointed from among the officers or employees of the 
United States Mint, may continue to serve the remainder of the term to 
which such member was appointed as a member of the Citizens Coinage 
Advisory Committee in one of the positions as determined by the 
Secretary.

    (d) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 5112(l)(4)(A)(ii) of title 31, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``Citizens Commemorative Coin 
        Advisory Committee'' and inserting ``Citizens Coinage Advisory 
        Committee''.
            (2) Section 5134(c) of title 31, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (4); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).

              TITLE II--TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING PROVISIONS

SEC. 201. CLARIFICATION OF EXISTING LAW.

    (a) In General.--Section 5134(f)(1) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Payment of surcharges.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, no amount derived from the proceeds of 
                any surcharge imposed on the sale of any numismatic item 
                shall be paid from the fund to any designated recipient 
                organization unless--
                          ``(i) all numismatic operation and program 
                      costs allocable to the program under which such 
                      numismatic item is produced and sold have been 
                      recovered; and
                          ``(ii) the designated recipient organization 
                      submits an audited financial statement that 
                      demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the 
                      Secretary, that, with respect to all projects or 
                      purposes for which the proceeds of such surcharge 
                      may be used, the organization has raised funds 
                      from private sources for such projects and 
                      purposes in an amount that is equal to or greater 
                      than the total amount of the proceeds of such 
                      surcharge derived from the sale of such numismatic 
                      item.
                    ``(B) Unpaid amounts.--If any amount derived from 
                the proceeds of any surcharge imposed on the sale of any 
                numismatic item that may otherwise be paid from the 
                fund, under any provision of law relating to such 
                numismatic item, to any designated recipient 
                organization remains unpaid to such organization solely 
                by reason of the matching fund requirement contained in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) after the end of the 2-year period 
                beginning on the later of--

[[Page 117 STAT. 620]]

                          ``(i) the last day any such numismatic item is 
                      issued by the Secretary; or
                          ``(ii) the date of the enactment of the 
                      American 5-Cent Coin Design Continuity Act of 
                      2003,
                such unpaid amount shall be deposited in the Treasury as 
                miscellaneous receipts.''.

    (b)  <<NOTE: Applicability. 31 USC 5134 note.>> Effective Date.--The 
amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply as of the date of the 
enactment of Public Law 104-208.

    Approved April 23, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 258:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-20 (Comm. on Financial Services).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Feb. 26, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 11, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>