[108th Congress Public Law 484]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ484.108]


[[Page 3921]]

         MICROENTERPRISE RESULTS AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2004

[[Page 118 STAT. 3922]]

Public Law 108-484
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to improve the results and 
 accountability of microenterprise development assistance programs, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 2004 -  [H.R. 3818]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Microenterprise Results and 
Accountability Act of 2004.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Microenterprise Results and 
Accountability Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211 note.>> POLICY.

    Congress finds and declares the following:
            (1) Congress has demonstrated its support for 
        microenterprise development assistance programs through the 
        enactment of two comprehensive microenterprise laws:
                    (A) The Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act of 
                2000 (title I of Public Law 106-309; 114 Stat. 1082).
                    (B) Public Law 108-31 (an Act entitled ``An Act to 
                amend the Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act of 2000 
                and the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to increase 
                assistance for the poorest people in developing 
                countries under microenterprise assistance program under 
                those Acts, and for other purposes'', approved June 17, 
                2003).
            (2) The report on the effectiveness of the United States 
        Agency for International Development's microfinance program, 
        prepared by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, rated the 
        Agency in the top tier of the 17 donors in this field.
            (3) The Comptroller General, in a report dated November 
        2003, found that the United States Agency for International 
        Development has met some, but not all, of the key objectives of 
        such microenterprise development assistance programs.
            (4) The Comptroller General's report found, among other 
        things, the following:
                    (A) Microenterprise development assistance generally 
                can help alleviate some impacts of poverty, improve 
                income levels and quality of life for borrowers and 
                provide poor individuals, workers, and their families 
                with an important coping mechanism.
                    (B) Microenterprise development assistance programs 
                of the United States Agency for International 
                Development have encouraged women's participation in 
                microfinance projects and, according to data of the 
                Agency, women have comprised two-thirds or more of the 
                micro-loan clients in Agency-funded microenterprise 
                projects since 1997.

[[Page 118 STAT. 3923]]

            (5)(A) The Comptroller General's report recommends that the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development review the Agency's ``microenterprise results 
        reporting'' system with the goal of ensuring that its annual 
        reporting is complete and accurate.
            (B) Specifically, the Administrator should review and 
        reconsider the methodologies used for the collection, analysis, 
        and reporting of data on annual spending targets, outreach to 
        the very poor, sustainability of microfinance institutions, and 
        the contribution of Agency's funding to the institutions it 
        supports.

SEC. 3. MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE.

     Chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2166 et seq.) is amended by inserting after title V the following 
new title:

           ``TITLE VI--MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE

``SEC. 251. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211.>> FINDINGS AND POLICY.

    ``Congress finds and declares the following:
            ``(1) Access to financial services and the development of 
        microenterprise are vital factors in the stable growth of 
        developing countries and in the development of free, open, and 
        equitable international economic systems.
            ``(2) It is therefore in the best interest of the United 
        States to facilitate access to financial services and assist the 
        development of microenterprise in developing countries.
            ``(3) Access to financial services and the development of 
        microenterprises can be supported by programs providing credit, 
        savings, training, technical assistance, business development 
        services, and other financial services.
            ``(4) Given the relatively high percentage of populations 
        living in rural areas of developing countries, and the combined 
        high incidence of poverty in rural areas and growing income 
        inequality between rural and urban markets, microenterprise 
        programs should target both rural and urban poor.
            ``(5) Microenterprise programs have been successful and 
        should continue to empower vulnerable women in the developing 
        world. The Agency should work to ensure that recipients of 
        microenterprise and microfinance development assistance under 
        this title communicate and work with nongovernmental 
        organizations and government organizations to identify and 
        assist victims of trafficking as provided for in section 
        106(a)(1) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 
        U.S.C. 7104(a)(1); Public Law 106-386) and women who are victims 
        of or susceptible to other forms of exploitation and violence.
            ``(6) Given that microenterprise programs have been 
        successful in empowering disenfranchised groups such as women, 
        microenterprise programs should also target populations 
        disenfranchised due to race or ethnicity in countries where a 
        strong relationship between poverty and race or ethnicity has 
        been demonstrated, such as countries in Latin America.

[[Page 118 STAT. 3924]]

``SEC. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211a.>> 252. AUTHORIZATION; IMPLEMENTATION; 
            TARGETED ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The <<NOTE: President.>> President is 
authorized to provide assistance on a non-reimbursable basis for 
programs in developing countries to increase the availability of credit, 
savings, and other services to microfinance and microenterprise clients 
lacking full access to capital, training, technical assistance, and 
business development services, through--
            ``(1) assistance for the purpose of expanding the 
        availability of credit, savings, and other financial and non-
        financial services to microfinance and microenterprise clients;
            ``(2) assistance for the purpose of training, technical 
        assistance, and business development services for 
        microenterprises to enable them to make better use of credit, to 
        better manage their enterprises, to conduct market analysis and 
        product development for expanding domestic and international 
        sales, particularly to United States markets, and to increase 
        their income and build their assets;
            ``(3) capacity-building for microfinance and microenterprise 
        institutions in order to enable them to better meet the credit, 
        savings, and training needs of microfinance and microenterprise 
        clients; and
            ``(4) policy, regulatory programs, and research at the 
        country level that improve the environment for microfinance and 
        microenterprise clients and institutions that serve the poor and 
        very poor.

    ``(b) Implementation.--
            ``(1) Office <<NOTE: Establishment.>> of microenterprise 
        development.--There is established within the Agency an office 
        of microenterprise development, which shall be headed by a 
        Director who shall be appointed by the Administrator and who 
        should possess technical expertise and ability to offer 
        leadership in the field of microenterprise development.
            ``(2) Additional provisions.--
                    ``(A) Use of implementing partner organizations.--
                Assistance under this section shall emphasize the use of 
                implementing partner organizations that best meet the 
                requirements of subparagraph (C).
                    ``(B) Use of central funding mechanisms.--
                          ``(i) Program.--In order to ensure that 
                      assistance under this title is distributed 
                      effectively and efficiently, the office shall also 
                      seek to implement a program of central funding 
                      under which assistance is administered directly by 
                      the office, including through targeted core 
                      support for microfinance and microenterprise 
                      networks and other practitioners.
                          ``(ii) Funding.--Of the amount made available 
                      to carry out this subtitle for a fiscal year, not 
                      less than $25,000,000 should be made available to 
                      carry out clause (i).
                    ``(C) Efficiency and cost-effectiveness.--Assistance 
                under this section shall meet high standards of 
                efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability and 
                shall especially provide the greatest possible resources 
                to the poor and very poor. When administering assistance 
                under this section, the Administrator shall--

[[Page 118 STAT. 3925]]

                          ``(i) take into consideration the percentage 
                      of funds a provider of assistance intends to 
                      expend on administrative costs;
                          ``(ii) take all appropriate steps to ensure 
                      that the provider of assistance keeps 
                      administrative costs as low as practicable to 
                      ensure the maximum amount of funds are used for 
                      directly assisting microfinance and 
                      microenterprise clients, for establishing 
                      sustainable microfinance and microenterprise 
                      institutions, or for advancing the microenterprise 
                      development field; and
                          ``(iii) give preference to proposals from 
                      providers of assistance that are the most 
                      technically competitive and have a reasonable 
                      allocation to overhead and administrative costs.
            ``(3) Approval of strategic plans.--With respect to 
        assistance provided under this section, the office shall be 
        responsible for concurring in the microenterprise development 
        components of strategic plans of missions, bureaus, and other 
        offices of the Agency and providing technical support to field 
        missions to help the missions prepare such components.

    ``(c) Targeted Assistance.--In carrying out sustainable poverty-
focused programs under subsection (a), 50 percent of all microenterprise 
resources shall be targeted to clients who are very poor. 
Specifically, <<NOTE: Termination date.>> until September 30, 2006, such 
resources shall be used for--
            ``(1) support of programs under this section through 
        practitioner institutions that--
                    ``(A) provide credit and other financial services to 
                clients who are very poor, with loans in 1995 United 
                States dollars of--
                          ``(i) $1,000 or less in the Europe and Eurasia 
                      region;
                          ``(ii) $400 or less in the Latin America 
                      region; and
                          ``(iii) $300 or less in the rest of the world; 
                      and
                    ``(B) can cover their costs in a reasonable time 
                period; or
            ``(2) demand-driven business development programs that 
        achieve reasonable cost recovery that are provided to clients 
        holding poverty loans (as defined by the regional poverty loan 
        limitations in paragraph (1)(A)), whether they are provided by 
        microfinance institutions or by specialized business development 
        services providers.

``SEC. 253. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211b.>> MONITORING SYSTEM.

    ``(a) In General.--In order to maximize the sustainable development 
impact of assistance authorized under section 252(a), the Administrator 
of the Agency, acting through the Director of the office, shall 
strengthen its monitoring system to meet the requirements of subsection 
(b).
    ``(b) Requirements.--The requirements referred to in subsection (a) 
are the following:
            ``(1) The monitoring system shall include performance goals 
        for the assistance and expresses such goals in an objective and 
        quantifiable form, to the extent feasible.

[[Page 118 STAT. 3926]]

            ``(2) The monitoring system shall include performance 
        indicators to be used in measuring or assessing the achievement 
        of the performance goals described in paragraph (1) and the 
        objectives of the assistance authorized under section 252.
            ``(3) The monitoring system provides a basis for 
        recommendations for adjustments to the assistance to enhance the 
        sustainability and the impact of the assistance, particularly 
        the impact of such assistance on the very poor, particularly 
        poor women.
            ``(4) The monitoring system adopts the widespread use of 
        proven and effective poverty assessment tools to successfully 
        identify the very poor and ensure that they receive adequate 
        access to microenterprise loans, savings, and assistance.

``SEC. 254. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211c.>> DEVELOPMENT AND CERTIFICATION OF 
            POVERTY MEASUREMENT METHODS; APPLICATION OF METHODS.

    ``(a) Development and Certification.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator of the Agency, in 
        consultation with microenterprise institutions and other 
        appropriate organizations, shall develop no fewer than two low-
        cost methods for implementing partner organizations to use to 
        assess the poverty levels of their current incoming or 
        prospective clients. The Administrator shall develop poverty 
        indicators that correlate with the circumstances of the very 
        poor.
            ``(2) Field testing.--The Administrator shall field-test the 
        methods developed under paragraph (1). As part of the testing, 
        institutions and programs may use the methods on a voluntary 
        basis to demonstrate their ability to reach the very poor.
            ``(3) Certification.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 
        April 1, 2005, the Administrator shall, from among the low-cost 
        poverty measurement methods developed under paragraph (1), 
        certify no fewer than two such methods as approved methods for 
        measuring the poverty levels of current, incoming, or 
        prospective clients of microenterprise institutions for purposes 
        of assistance under section 252.

    ``(b) Application.--The <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Administrator 
shall require that, with reasonable exceptions, all implementing partner 
organizations applying for microenterprise assistance under this title 
use one of the certified methods, beginning not later than October 1, 
2006, to determine and report the poverty levels of current, incoming, 
or prospective clients.

``SEC. 255. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211d.>> ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts made available 
for assistance for microenterprise development assistance under any 
provision of law other than this title may be provided to further the 
purposes of this title. To the extent assistance described in the 
preceding sentence is provided in accordance with such sentence, the 
Administrator of the Agency shall include, as part of the report 
required under section 258, a detailed description of such assistance 
and, to the extent applicable, the information required by paragraphs 
(1) through (11) of subsection (b) of such section with respect to such 
assistance.''.

SEC. 4. MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CREDITS.

    (a) Transfer.--Section <<NOTE: 22 USC 2212.>> 108 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151f) is hereby--

[[Page 118 STAT. 3927]]

            (1) transferred from chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 to title VI of chapter 2 of part I of 
        such Act (as added by section 3 of this Act); and
            (2) inserted after section 255 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961.

    (b) Redesignation.--Title <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151f, 2212.>> VI of 
chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by 
redesignating section 108 (as added by subsection (a)) as section 256.

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Title VI of chapter 2 of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the title heading the following:

                    ``Subtitle A--Grant Assistance'';

            (2) by inserting after section 255 the following:

                 ``Subtitle B--Credit Assistance''; and

            (3) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2212.>> in section 256 (as redesignated 
        by subsection (b))--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) of 
                subsection (c), by striking ``Administrator of the 
                agency primarily responsible for administering this 
                part'' and inserting ``Administrator of the Agency''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``section 131'' and inserting 
                      ``this part''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``$1,500,000 for each of 
                      fiscal years 2001 through 2004'' and inserting 
                      ``such sums as may be necessary for each of the 
                      fiscal years 2005 through 2009''.

SEC. 5. UNITED STATES MICROFINANCE LOAN FACILITY.

    (a) Transfer.--Section <<NOTE: 22 USC 2213.>> 132 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2152b) is hereby--
            (1) transferred from chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 to title VI of chapter 2 of part I of 
        such Act (as added by section 3 of this Act); and
            (2) inserted after section 256 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961 (as added by section 4 of this Act).

    (b) Redesignation.--Title <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152b, 2213.>> VI of 
chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by 
redesignating section 132 (as added by subsection (a)) as section 257.

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Title VI of chapter 2 of part I of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
            (1) by inserting after section 256 the following:

      ``Subtitle C--United States Microfinance Loan Facility''; and

            (2) <<NOTE: 22 USC 2213.>> in section 257 (as redesignated 
        by subsection (b))--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``2001 and 
                2002'' and inserting ``2005 through 2009'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of 
                subsection (d)(1), by striking ``this part for the 
                fiscal year 2001, up to $5,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``this part for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 
                2009, such sums as may be necessary''; and
                    (C) by striking subsection (e).

[[Page 118 STAT. 3928]]

SEC. 6. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    Title VI of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (as added by section 3 of this Act and amended by sections 4 and 5 
of this Act) is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subtitle:

                 ``Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Provisions

``SEC. 258. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2214.>> REPORT.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than June 30, 2006, and each June 30 
thereafter, the Administrator of the Agency, acting through the Director 
of the office, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report that contains a detailed description of the implementation of 
this title for the previous fiscal year.
    ``(b) Contents.--The report shall contain the following:
            ``(1) The number of grants, cooperative agreements, 
        contracts, contributions, or other form of assistance provided 
        under section 252, with a listing of--
                    ``(A) the amount of each grant, cooperative 
                agreement, contract, contribution, or other form of 
                assistance;
                    ``(B) the name of each recipient and each developing 
                country with respect to which projects or activities 
                under the grant, cooperative agreement, contract, 
                contribution, or other form of assistance were carried 
                out; and
                    ``(C) a listing of the number of countries receiving 
                assistance authorized by section 252.
            ``(2) The results of the monitoring system required under 
        section 253.
            ``(3) The process of developing and applying poverty 
        assessment procedures required under section 254.
            ``(4) The percentage of assistance furnished under section 
        252 that was allocated to the very poor based on the data 
        collected using the certified methods required by section 254.
            ``(5) The estimated number of the very poor reached with 
        assistance provided under section 252.
            ``(6) The amount of assistance provided under section 252 
        through central mechanisms.
            ``(7) The name of each country that receives assistance 
        under section 256 and the amount of such assistance.
            ``(8) Information on the efforts of the Agency to ensure 
        that recipients of United States microenterprise and 
        microfinance development assistance work closely with 
        nongovernmental organizations and foreign governments to 
        identify and assist victims or potential victims of severe forms 
        of trafficking in persons and women who are victims of or 
        susceptible to other forms of exploitation and violence.
            ``(9) Any additional information relating to the provision 
        of assistance authorized by this title, including the use of the 
        poverty measurement tools required by section 254, or additional 
        information on assistance provided by the United States to 
        support microenterprise development under this title or any 
        other provision of law.
            ``(10) An estimate of the percentage of beneficiaries of 
        assistance under this title in countries where a strong 
        relationship between poverty and race or ethnicity has been 
        demonstrated.

[[Page 118 STAT. 3929]]

            ``(11) The level of funding provided through contracts, the 
        level of funding provided through grants, contracts, and 
        cooperative agreements that is estimated to be subgranted or 
        subcontracted, as the case may be, to direct service providers, 
        and an analysis of the comparative cost-effectiveness and 
        sustainability of projects carried out under these mechanisms.

    ``(c) Availability to Public.--The <<NOTE: Internet.>> report 
required by this section shall be made available to the public on the 
Internet website of the Agency.

``SEC. 259. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2214a.>> DEFINITIONS.

    `` In this title:
            ``(1) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the 
        Administrator of the Agency.
            ``(2) Agency.--The term `Agency' means the United States 
        Agency for International Development.
            ``(3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
            ``(4) Business development services.--The term `business 
        development services' means support for the growth of 
        microenterprises through training, technical assistance, 
        marketing assistance, improved production technologies, and 
        other related services.
            ``(5) Director.--The term `Director' means the Director of 
        the office.
            ``(6) Implementing partner organization.--The term 
        `implementing partner organization' means an entity eligible to 
        receive assistance under this title which is--
                    ``(A) a United States or an indigenous private 
                voluntary organization;
                    ``(B) a United States or an indigenous credit union;
                    ``(C) a United States or an indigenous cooperative 
                organization;
                    ``(D) an indigenous governmental or nongovernmental 
                organization;
                    ``(E) a microenterprise institution;
                    ``(F) a microfinance institution; or
                    ``(G) a practitioner institution.
            ``(7) Microenterprise institution.--The term 
        `microenterprise institution' means a not-for-profit entity that 
        provides services, including microfinance, training, or business 
        development services, for microenterprise clients in foreign 
        countries.
            ``(8) Microfinance institution.--The term `microfinance 
        institution' means a not-for-profit entity or a regulated 
        financial intermediary that directly provides, or works to 
        expand, the availability of credit, savings, and other financial 
        services to microfinance and microenterprise clients in foreign 
        countries.
            ``(9) Microfinance network.--The term `microfinance network' 
        means an affiliated group of practitioner institutions that 
        provides services to its members, including financing, technical 
        assistance, and accreditation, for the purpose of promoting the 
        financial sustainability and societal impact of microenterprise 
        assistance.
            ``(10) Office.--The term `office' means the office of 
        microenterprise development established under section 252(b)(1).

[[Page 118 STAT. 3930]]

            ``(11) Practitioner institution.--The term `practitioner 
        institution' means a not-for-profit entity or a regulated 
        financial intermediary, including a microfinance network, that 
        provides services, including microfinance, training, or business 
        development services, for microfinance and microenterprise 
        clients, or provides assistance to microenterprise institutions 
        in foreign countries.
            ``(12) Private voluntary organization.--The term `private 
        voluntary organization' means a not-for-profit entity that--
                    ``(A) engages in and supports activities of an 
                economic or social development or humanitarian nature 
                for citizens in foreign countries; and
                    ``(B) is incorporated as such under the laws of the 
                United States, including any of its states, territories 
                or the District of Columbia, or of a foreign country.
            ``(13) United states-supported microfinance institution.--
        The term `United States-supported microfinance institution' 
        means a financial intermediary that has received funds made 
        available under this part for fiscal year 1980 or any subsequent 
        fiscal year.
            ``(14) Very poor.--The term `very poor' means those 
        individuals--
                    ``(A) living in the bottom 50 percent below the 
                poverty line established by the national government of 
                the country in which those individuals live; or
                    ``(B) living on less than the equivalent of $1 per 
                day (as calculated using the purchasing power parity 
                (PPP) exchange rate method).''.

SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211 note.>> SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that, in carrying out title VI of 
chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as added by 
section 3 of this Act and amended by sections 4 through 6 of this Act), 
the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development--
            (1) where applicable, should ensure that microenterprise 
        development assistance provided under such title is matched by 
        recipients with an equal amount of assistance from non-United 
        States Government sources, including private donations, 
        multilateral funding, commercial and concessional borrowing, 
        savings, and program income;
            (2) should include in the report required by section 258 of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as added by section 6 of 
        this Act) a description of all matching assistance (as described 
        in paragraph (1)) provided for the prior year by recipients of 
        microenterprise development assistance under such title;
            (3) should ensure that recipients of microenterprise 
        development assistance under such title do not expend an 
        unreasonably large percentage of such assistance on 
        administrative costs;
            (4) should not use recipients of microenterprise development 
        assistance under such title to carry out critical management 
        functions of the Agency, including functions such as strategy 
        development or overall management of programs in a country; and

[[Page 118 STAT. 3931]]

            (5) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> should consult with the appropriate 
        congressional committees with respect to the implementation of 
        title VI of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961 not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

SEC. 8. REPEALS.

    (a) Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--Section 131 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2152a) is hereby repealed.
    (b) Public Law 108-31.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4 of Public Law 108-31 (22 U.S.C. 
        2151f note) is amended by striking subsection (b).
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 4 of Public Law 108-
        31 <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151f note.>> is amended by striking ``(a)'' 
        and all that follows through ``Not later'' and inserting ``Not 
        later''.

SEC. 9. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2211 note.>> REFERENCES.

    Any reference in a law, regulation, agreement, or other document of 
the United States to section 108, 131, or 132 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 shall be deemed to be a reference to subtitle B of title VI 
of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, subtitle A 
of title VI of chapter 2 of part I of such Act, or subtitle C of title 
VI of chapter 2 of part I of such Act, respectively.

    Approved December 23, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3818 (S. 3027):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-459 (Comm. on International Relations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Nov. 20, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>