[108th Congress Public Law 308]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ308.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 1135]]

Public Law 108-308
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant 
 program through March 31, 2005, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 
                       30, 2004 -  [H.R. 5149]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Welfare Reform 
Extension Act, Part VIII.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1305 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Welfare Reform Extension Act, Part 
VIII''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES BLOCK 
            GRANT PROGRAM THROUGH MARCH 31, 2005.

    (a) In General.--Activities authorized by part A of title IV of the 
Social Security Act, and by sections 510, 1108(b), and 1925 of such Act, 
shall continue through March 31, 2005, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2004, notwithstanding section 1902(e)(1)(A) of such Act, and 
out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise 
appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for such purpose. Grants and payments may be made pursuant to 
this authority through the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 at the 
level provided for such activities through the second quarter of fiscal 
year 2004.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Supplemental grants for population increases in certain 
        states.--Section 403(a)(3)(H)(ii) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 603(a)(3)(H)(ii)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
        2004'' and inserting ``March 31, 2005''.
            (2) Contingency fund.--Section 403(b)(3)(C)(ii) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 603(b)(3)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking ``2004'' and 
        inserting ``2005''.
            (3) Maintenance of effort.--Section 409(a)(7) of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 609(a)(7)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 2005'' and 
                inserting ``2005, or 2006''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``2004'' 
                and inserting ``2005''.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF THE NATIONAL RANDOM SAMPLE STUDY OF CHILD WELFARE 
            AND CHILD WELFARE WAIVER AUTHORITY THROUGH MARCH 31, 2005.

    Activities authorized by sections 429A and 1130(a) of the Social 
Security Act shall continue through March 31, 2005, in the manner 
authorized for fiscal year 2004, and out of any money in the Treasury of 
the United States not otherwise appropriated, there

[[Page 118 STAT. 1136]]

are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. 
Grants and payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the 
second quarter of fiscal year 2005 at the level provided for such 
activities through the second quarter of fiscal year 2004.

    Approved September 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5149:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Sept. 29 considered in House.
            Sept. 30, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>