[108th Congress Public Law 72]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ072.108]

[[Page 887]]

                SMITHSONIAN FACILITIES AUTHORIZATION ACT

[[Page 117 STAT. 888]]

Public Law 108-72
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for additional space and resources for national collections 
           held by the Smithsonian Institution, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 15, 2003 -  [H.R. 2195]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Smithsonian 
Facilities Authorization Act.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 20 USC 41 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Smithsonian Facilities Authorization 
Act''.

SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL SPACE AND RESOURCES FOR NATIONAL COLLECTIONS HELD BY 
            THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

    (a) In General.--Public Law 94-98 (20 U.S.C. 50 note; 89 Stat. 480) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 4. ADDITIONAL SPACE AND RESOURCES FOR NATIONAL COLLECTIONS HELD 
            BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

    ``(a) In General.--The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
Institution may plan, design, construct, and equip additional special 
use storage and laboratory space at the museum support facility of the 
Smithsonian Institution in Suitland, Maryland, to accommodate the care, 
preservation, conservation, deposit, and study of national collections 
held in trust by the Institution.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            ``(1) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            ``(2) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2004; and
            ``(3) such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 
        2005 through 2008.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3 of Public Law 94-98 (20 U.S.C. 
50 note; 89 Stat. 480) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``the purposes of this Act.'' and inserting ``this Act (other than 
section 4).''.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 20 USC 75b note.>> PATENT OFFICE BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS.

    (a) Authorization of Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian 
        Institution may plan, design, and construct improvements to the 
        interior and exterior of the Patent Office Building (including 
        the construction of a roof covering for the courtyard), using 
        funds available to the Institution from nonappropriated sources.
            (2) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Patent Office 
        Building'' means the building transferred to the Smithsonian 
        Institution pursuant to Public Law 85-357.

    (b) Design and Specifications.--The design and specifications for 
any exterior alterations authorized by subsection (a) shall be--

[[Page 117 STAT. 889]]

            (1) submitted by the Secretary of the Smithsonian 
        Institution (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') 
        to the Commission of Fine Arts for comments and recommendations; 
        and
            (2) subject to the review and approval of the National 
        Capital Planning Commission in accordance with section 8722 of 
        title 40, United States Code, and section 16 of the Act of June 
        20, 1938 (sec. 6-641.15, D.C. Official Code).

    (c) Authority of Historic Preservation Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) take into account the effect of the improvements 
                authorized by subsection (a) on the historic character 
                of the Patent Office Building; and
                    (B) provide the Advisory Council on Historic 
                Preservation a reasonable opportunity to comment with 
                regard to such improvements.
            (2) Status of smithsonian.--In carrying out this subsection, 
        and in carrying out other projects in the District of Columbia 
        which are subject to the review and approval of the National 
        Capital Planning Commission in accordance with section 16 of the 
        Act of June 20, 1938 (sec. 6-641.15, D.C. Official Code), the 
        Smithsonian Institution shall be deemed to be an agency for 
        purposes of compliance with regulations promulgated by the 
        Advisory Council on Historic Preservation pursuant to section 
        106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f).

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 41 USC 253l-8.>> CONTRACTING AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution may--
            (1) enter into multi-year contracts for the acquisition of 
        property and services under the authority of section 304B of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 
        U.S.C. 254c); and
            (2) enter into contracts for the acquisition of severable 
        services for a period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in 
        the next fiscal year under the authority of section 303L of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 
        U.S.C. 253l).

    (b) Effective Date.--This <<NOTE: Applicability.>> section shall 
apply to contracts entered into on or after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3521 note.>> VOLUNTARY SEPARATION INCENTIVE 
            PAYMENTS.

    The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution may establish a program 
for making voluntary separation incentive payments for employees of the 
Smithsonian Institution which is substantially similar to the program 
established under subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code (as added by section 1313(a) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002).

SEC. 6. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING JAZZ APPRECIATION MONTH.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) On December 4, 1987, Congress approved House Concurrent 
        Resolution 57, designating jazz as ``a rare and valuable 
        national American treasure''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 890]]

            (2) Jazz has inspired some of the Nation's leading creative 
        artists and ranks as one of the greatest cultural exports of the 
        United States.
            (3) Jazz is an original American art form which has inspired 
        dancers, choreographers, poets, novelists, filmmakers, classical 
        composers, and musicians in many other kinds of music.
            (4) Jazz has become an international language that bridges 
        cultural differences and brings people of all races, ages, and 
        backgrounds together.
            (5) The jazz heritage of the United States should be 
        appreciated as broadly as possible and should be part of the 
        educational curriculum for children in the United States.
            (6) The Smithsonian Institution has played a vital role in 
        the preservation of American culture, including art and music.
            (7) The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of 
        American History has established April as Jazz Appreciation 
        Month to pay tribute to jazz as both a historic and living 
        American art form.
            (8) The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of 
        American History has received great contributions toward this 
        effort from other governmental agencies and cultural 
        organizations.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of 
        American History should be commended for establishing a Jazz 
        Appreciation Month; and
            (2) musicians, schools, colleges, libraries, concert halls, 
        museums, radio and television stations, and other organizations 
        should develop programs to explore, perpetuate, and honor jazz 
        as a national and world treasure.

    Approved August 15, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2195:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            July 15, considered and passed House.
            July 31, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>