[108th Congress Public Law 163]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ163.108]

[[Page 2019]]

   HEALTH CARE SAFETY NET AMENDMENTS TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT OF 2003

[[Page 117 STAT. 2020]]

Public Law 108-163
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To make certain technical and conforming amendments to correct the 
Health Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002. <<NOTE: Dec. 6, 2003 -  [H.R. 
                                3038]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Health Care 
Safety Net Amendments Technical Corrections Act of 2003.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Health Care Safety Net Amendments 
Technical Corrections Act of 2003''.

SEC. 2. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Health Centers.--
            (1) In general.--Section 330 of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 254b) is amended to read as if--
                    (A) subparagraph (C) of the second paragraph (4) of 
                section 101 of Public Law 107-251 had not been enacted;
                    (B) paragraph (7)(C) of such section 101 had not 
                been enacted; and
                    (C) paragraphs (8) through (11) of such section 101 
                had not been enacted.
            (2) Amendments per public law 107-251.--Section 330 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b), as amended by 
        paragraph (1), is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1)(B), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by striking ``plan..'' and inserting 
                ``plan.'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)(1)(B)(iii), in subclause (I), 
                by adding ``or'' at the end;
                    (C) by striking subsection (k);
                    (D) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection 
                (k);
                    (E) by inserting after subsection (i) a subsection 
                that is identical to the subsection (j) that appears (as 
                an amendment) in section 101(8)(C) of Public Law 107-
                251;
                    (F) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection 
                (r), by transferring it from its current placement, and 
                by inserting it after subsection (q);
                    (G) by inserting before subsection (m) a subsection 
                that is identical to the subsection that appears (as an 
                amendment) in section 101(9) of Public Law 107-251, and 
                by redesignating as subsection (l) the subsection that 
                is so inserted;
                    (H) in subsection (l) (as inserted and redesignated 
                by subparagraph (G) of this paragraph), in the first 
                sentence--
                          (i) by inserting after ``shall provide'' the 
                      following: ``(either through the Department of 
                      Health and Human Services or by grant or 
                      contract)''; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 2021]]

                          (ii) by striking ``(l)(3)'' and inserting 
                      ``(k)(3)'';
                    (I) in subsection (p), by striking ``(j)(3)(G)'' and 
                inserting ``(k)(3)(G)''; and
                    (J) in subsection (r) (as redesignated, transferred, 
                and inserted by subparagraph (F) of this paragraph)--
                          (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                      ``$802,124,000'' and all that follows through the 
                      period and inserting ``$1,340,000,000 for fiscal 
                      year 2002 and such sums as may be necessary for 
                      each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2006.'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(j)(3))'' and 
                                inserting ``(k)(3))''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``(j)(3)(G)(ii)'' 
                                and inserting ``(k)(3)(H)''; and
                          (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                      subparagraph (B) and inserting a subparagraph that 
                      is identical to the subparagraph (B) that appears 
                      (as an amendment) in section 101(11)(B)(ii) of 
                      Public Law 107-251.

    (b) Rural Health Outreach.--Section 330A(b)(4) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(b)(4)) is amended by striking ``799B'' and 
inserting ``799B(6)''.
    (c) Telehealth.--Section 330I of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 254c-14) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ``799B'' and inserting 
        ``799B(6)''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Health and Resources 
        and Services Administration'' and inserting ``Health Resources 
        and Services Administration''.

    (d) Mental Health Services Via Telehealth.--Section 330K of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-16) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``subsection (a)(4)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(4)(A)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)(A)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(4)(B)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)(B)''.

    (e) Telemedicine Incentive Grants.--
                    (1) In general.--Subpart I of part D of title III of 
                the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b et seq.) 
                is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 330L. <<NOTE: 42 USC 254c-18.>> TELEMEDICINE; INCENTIVE GRANTS 
            REGARDING COORDINATION AMONG STATES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make grants to State 
professional licensing boards to carry out programs under which such 
licensing boards of various States cooperate to develop and implement 
State policies that will reduce statutory and regulatory barriers to 
telemedicine.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 through 2006.''.
            (2) Repeal.--Section 102 of the Health Care Safety Net 
        Amendments of 2002 (Public Law 107-251) <<NOTE: 42 USC 254c-
        17.>>  is repealed.

    (f) Health Professional Shortage Areas.--

[[Page 117 STAT. 2022]]

            (1) In general.--Section 332 of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 254e) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``such date of enactment'' and 
                      inserting ``such date of designation''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``, issued after the date of 
                      enactment of this Act, that revise'' and inserting 
                      ``regarding''; and
                    (B) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``330(h)(4)'' 
                and inserting ``330(h)(5)'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking 
                ``designation,.'' and inserting ``designation.''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(j)(1) <<NOTE: Reports. Regulations.>> The Secretary shall submit 
the report described in paragraph (2) if the Secretary, acting through 
the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, 
issues--
            ``(A) a regulation that revises the definition of a health 
        professional shortage area for purposes of this section; or
            ``(B) a regulation that revises the standards concerning 
        priority of such an area under section 333A.

    ``(2) On issuing a regulation described in paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report that describes the 
regulation.
    ``(3) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Each regulation described in 
paragraph (1) shall take effect 180 days after the committees described 
in paragraph (2) receive a report referred to in such paragraph 
describing the regulation.''.
            (2) Repeal.--Subsection (b) of section 302 of the Health 
        Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002 <<NOTE: 42 USC 254e 
        note.>> (Public Law 107-251) is repealed.

    (g) Assignment of Corps Personnel.--Section 333(a)(1) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254f) is amended by moving subparagraph 
(C) so that the margin of subparagraph (C) is aligned with the margins 
of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D).
    (h) Priorities in Assignment of Corps Personnel.--Section 333A(c)(4) 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254f-1(c)(4)) is amended by 
striking ``30 days'' and inserting ``30 days from such notification''.
    (i) Charges for Services.--Section 334(b)(1)(B) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254g(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ``the 
payment of'' after ``applied to''.
    (j) National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program.--Section 
338A(d)(1) (42 U.S.C. 254l(d)(1)) is amended by moving subparagraph (B) 
so that the margin of subparagraph (B) is aligned with the margin of 
subparagraphs (A) and (C).
    (k) National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program.--Section 
338B(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254l-1) is amended 
by striking ``Participation.--'' and all that follows through ``An 
individual'' and inserting ``Participation.--An individual''.
    (l) Breach of Contract.--
            (1) In general.--Section 338E of the Public Health Service 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 254o) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1), by moving subparagraphs 
                (A), (B), and (C), and the flush matter following 
                subparagraph (C), 2 ems to the left; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 117 STAT. 2023]]

    ``(f) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The amendment made by section 
313(a)(4) of the Health Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002 (Public Law 
107-251) shall apply to any obligation for which a discharge in 
bankruptcy has not been granted before the date that is 31 days after 
the date of enactment of such Act.''.
            (2) Repeal.--Subsection (b) of section 313 of the Health 
        Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002 <<NOTE: 42 USC 254o note.>>  
        (Public Law 107-251) is repealed.

    (m) Miscellaneous.--The Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in subsections (g)(1)(G)(ii), (k)(2), and (n)(1)(C) of 
        section 224, and sections 317A(a)(2), 317E(c), and 
        318A(e), <<NOTE: 42 USC 233, 247b-1, 247b-6, 247c-1.>> by 
        striking ``330, 330(h)'' and inserting ``330'';
            (2) in section 1313, <<NOTE: 42 USC 300e-12.>>  by striking 
        ``329, 330, and 330(h)'' and inserting ``329 and 330''; and
            (3) in section 2652(a)(2), <<NOTE: 42 USC 300ff-52.>>  by 
        striking ``section 340'' and inserting ``section 330(h)''.

    (n) Health Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002.--The Health Care 
Safety Net Amendments of 2002 (Public Law 107-251) is amended--
            (1) in section 404(c)(5), <<NOTE: 42 USC 1396a note.>> by 
        striking ``Health Care Financing Administration and the Health 
        Research'' and inserting ``Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
        Services and the Health Resources''; and
            (2) in section 501, <<NOTE: 42 USC 254b note.>> by striking 
        ``solvency for managed care networks'' and inserting 
        ``guarantees of solvency for managed care networks or plans''.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 42 USC 233 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act is deemed to have taken effect immediately after the 
enactment of Public Law 107-251.

    Approved December 6, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3038:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-275 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Oct. 1, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>