[108th Congress Public Law 209]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ209.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 562]]

Public Law 108-209
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To designate Fort Bayard Historic District in the State of New Mexico as 
 a National Historic Landmark, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 19, 
                         2004 -  [H.R. 2059]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Fort Bayard 
National Historic Landmark Act.>> 

SECTION 1. FORT BAYARD NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Fort Bayard 
National Historic Landmark Act''.
    (b) Designation.--The Fort Bayard Historic District in Grant County, 
New Mexico, as listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is 
hereby designated as the Fort Bayard National Historic Landmark.
    (c) Administration.--Nothing in this section shall affect the 
administration of the Fort Bayard Historic District by the State of New 
Mexico.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
State of New Mexico, Grant County, New Mexico, and affected subdivisions 
of Grant County, may enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate 
public or private entities, for the purposes of protecting historic 
resources at Fort Bayard and providing educational and interpretive 
facilities and programs for the public. The Secretary shall not enter 
into any agreement or provide assistance to any activity affecting Fort 
Bayard State Hospital without the concurrence of the State of New 
Mexico.
    (e) Technical and Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
technical and financial assistance with any entity with which the 
Secretary has entered into a cooperative agreement under subsection (d).
    (f) No Effect on Actions of Property Owners.--Designation of the 
Fort Bayard Historic District as a National Historic Landmark shall not 
prohibit any actions which may otherwise be taken by any property 
owners, including the owners of the Fort Bayard National Historic 
Landmark, with respect to their property.

[[Page 118 STAT. 563]]

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.

    Approved March 19, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2059 (S. 214):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-257 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-8 accompanying S. 214 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 149 (2003):
                                    Sept. 23, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 150 (2004):
                                    Mar. 4, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>