[108th Congress Public Law 96]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ096.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1167]]

Public Law 108-96
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To reauthorize programs under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act and the 
Missing Children's Assistance Act, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 
                       10, 2003 -  [H.R. 1925]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Runaway, 
Homeless, and Missing Children Protection Act. Grants.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5601 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Runaway, Homeless, and Missing 
Children Protection Act''.

          TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH ACT

SEC. 101. AMENDMENT TO FINDINGS.

    Section 302 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 302. FINDINGS.

    ``The Congress finds that--
            ``(1) youth who have become homeless or who leave and remain 
        away from home without parental permission, are at risk of 
        developing, and have a disproportionate share of, serious 
        health, behavioral, and emotional problems because they lack 
        sufficient resources to obtain care and may live on the street 
        for extended periods thereby endangering themselves and creating 
        a substantial law enforcement problem for communities in which 
        they congregate;
            ``(2) many such young people, because of their age and 
        situation, are urgently in need of temporary shelter and 
        services, including services that are linguistically appropriate 
        and acknowledge the environment of youth seeking these services;
            ``(3) in view of the interstate nature of the problem, it is 
        the responsibility of the Federal Government to develop an 
        accurate national reporting system to report the problem, and to 
        assist in the development of an effective system of care 
        (including preventive and aftercare services, emergency shelter 
        services, extended residential shelter, and street outreach 
        services) outside the welfare system and the law enforcement 
        system;
            ``(4) to make a successful transition to adulthood, runaway 
        youth, homeless youth, and other street youth need opportunities 
        to complete high school or earn a general equivalency degree, 
        learn job skills, and obtain employment; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1168]]

            ``(5) improved coordination and collaboration between the 
        Federal programs that serve runaway and homeless youth are 
        necessary for the development of a long-term strategy for 
        responding to the needs of this population.''.

SEC. 102. GRANT PROGRAM CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    The heading for part A of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5711 et seq.) is amended by striking ``Runaway and Homeless 
Youth'' and inserting ``Basic Center''.

SEC. 103. GRANTS FOR SERVICES PROVIDED.

    Section 311(a)(2)(C) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5711(a)(2)(C)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii) by striking ``and'';
            (2) in clause (iii) by striking the period and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (3) after clause (iii) by inserting the following:
                          ``(iv) at the request of runaway and homeless 
                      youth, testing for sexually transmitted 
                      diseases.''.

SEC. 104. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION RELATING TO CERTAIN ALLOTMENTS.

    Section 311(b) the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5711(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the'' and inserting ``The'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).

SEC. 105. ELIGIBILITY PROVISION.

    Section 312(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5712(a)) is amended by striking ``juveniles'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``youth''.

SEC. 106. RECOGNITION OF STATE LAW RELATING TO CAPACITY LIMITATION ON 
            ELIGIBLE RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH CENTERS.

    Section 312(b)(2)(A) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5712(b)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting after ``youth'' the 
following: ``, except where the applicant assures that the State where 
the center or locally controlled facility is located has a State or 
local law or regulation that requires a higher maximum to comply with 
licensure requirements for child and youth serving facilities''.

SEC. 107. MATERNITY GROUP HOMES.

    (a) Eligibility.--Section 322(a)(1) of the Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-2(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``group homes,'' the following: 
        ``including maternity group homes,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``use of credit,'' the following: 
        ``parenting skills (as appropriate),''.

    (b) Definition.--Section 322 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5714-2) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Definition.--In this part, the term `maternity group home' 
means a community-based, adult-supervised transitional living 
arrangement that provides pregnant or parenting youth and their children 
with a supportive and supervised living arrangement in

[[Page 117 STAT. 1169]]

which such pregnant or parenting youth are required to learn parenting 
skills, including child development, family budgeting, health and 
nutrition, and other skills to promote their long-term economic 
independence in order to ensure the well-being of their children.''.

SEC. 108. LIMITED EXTENSION OF 540-DAY SHELTER ELIGIBILITY PERIOD.

    Section 322(a)(2) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)(2)) is amended by inserting after ``days'' the following: ``, 
except that a youth in a program under this part who is under the age of 
18 years on the last day of the 540-day period may, if otherwise 
qualified for the program, remain in the program until the earlier of 
the youth's 18th birthday or the 180th day after the end of the 540-day 
period''.

SEC. 109. PART A PLAN COORDINATION ASSURANCES.

    Section 312(b)(4)(B) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5712(b)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``personnel'' and all that 
follows through the semicolon and inserting ``McKinney-Vento school 
district liaisons, designated under section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii)), 
to assure that runaway and homeless youth are provided information about 
the educational services available to such youth under subtitle B of 
title VII of that Act;''.

SEC. 110. PART B PLAN COORDINATION AGREEMENT.

    Section 322(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (13);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (14) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(15) to coordinate services with McKinney-Vento school 
        district liaisons, designated under section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of 
        the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
        11432(g)(1)(J)(ii)), to assure that runaway and homeless youth 
        are provided information about the educational services 
        available to such youth under subtitle B of title VII of that 
        Act.''.

SEC. 111. PART B PLAN DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 322(a)(7) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)(7)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(7) to develop an adequate plan to ensure proper referral 
        of homeless youth to social service, law enforcement, 
        educational (including post-secondary education), vocational, 
        training (including services and programs for youth available 
        under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998), welfare (including 
        programs under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
        Reconciliation Act of 1996), legal service, and health care 
        programs and to help integrate and coordinate such services for 
        youths;''.

SEC. 112. COORDINATION OF PROGRAMS.

    Section 341 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-
21) is amended--

[[Page 117 STAT. 1170]]

            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) shall consult, as appropriate, the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development to ensure coordination of programs 
        and services for homeless youth.''.

SEC. 113. CLARIFICATION OF GRANT AUTHORITY.

    Section 343(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-23(a)) is amended by inserting after ``service projects'' the 
following: ``regarding activities under this title''.

SEC. 114. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.

    The section heading of section 344 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-24) is amended by striking ``temporary''.

SEC. 115. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION RELATING TO STUDY.

    The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is 
amended by striking section 345 (42 U.S.C. 5714-25).

SEC. 116. AGE LIMIT FOR HOMELESS YOUTH.

    Section 387(3)(A)(i) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5732a(3)(A)(i)) is amended by inserting after ``of age'' the 
following: ``, or, in the case of a youth seeking shelter in a center 
under part A, not more than 18 years of age''.

SEC. 117. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Other Than Part E.--Section 388(a)(1) of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``such 
sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003'' 
and inserting ``$105,000,000 for fiscal year 2004, and such sums as may 
be necessary for fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008''.
    (b) Part E.--Section 388(a)(4) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``2000, 2001, 2002, and 
2003'' and inserting ``2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008''.
    (c) Part B Allocation.--Section 388(a)(2)(B) of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(2)(B)) is amended by striking 
``not less than 20 percent, and not more than 30 percent'' and inserting 
``45 percent and, in those fiscal years in which continuation grant 
obligations and the quality and number of applicants for parts A and B 
warrant not more than 55 percent''.

SEC. 118. <<NOTE: Deadline. 42 USC 5701 note.>> REPORT ON PROMISING 
            STRATEGIES TO END YOUTH HOMELESSNESS.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the 
United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, shall submit to the 
Congress a report on promising strategies to end youth homelessness.

SEC. 119. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5714-1 note.>> STUDY OF HOUSING SERVICES AND 
            STRATEGIES.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall conduct a study of 
programs funded under part B of the Runaway and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1171]]

Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-1 et seq.) to report on long-term 
housing outcomes for youth after exiting the program. The study of any 
such program should provide information on housing services available to 
youth upon exiting the program, including assistance in locating and 
retaining permanent housing and referrals to other residential programs. 
In addition, the study should identify housing models and placement 
strategies that prevent future episodes of homelessness.

SEC. 120. RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS.

    The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 389. <<NOTE: 42 USC 5752.>> RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--None of the funds contained in this title may be 
used for any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the 
hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.
    ``(b) Separate Accounting.--Any individual or entity who receives 
any funds contained in this title and who carries out any program 
described in subsection (a) shall account for all funds used for such 
program separately from any funds contained in this title.''.

        TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO MISSING CHILDREN'S ASSISTANCE ACT

SEC. 201. AMENDMENT TO FINDINGS.

    Section 402 of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5771) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 402. FINDINGS.

    ``The Congress finds that--
            ``(1) each year thousands of children are abducted or 
        removed from the control of a parent having legal custody 
        without such parent's consent, under circumstances which 
        immediately place the child in grave danger;
            ``(2) many missing children are at great risk of both 
        physical harm and sexual exploitation;
            ``(3) in many cases, parents and local law enforcement 
        officials have neither the resources nor the expertise to mount 
        expanded search efforts;
            ``(4) abducted children are frequently moved from one 
        locality to another, requiring the cooperation and coordination 
        of local, State, and Federal law enforcement efforts;
            ``(5) the National Center for Missing and Exploited 
        Children--
                    ``(A) serves as the national resource center and 
                clearinghouse;
                    ``(B) works in partnership with the Department of 
                Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the 
                Department of the Treasury, the Department of State, and 
                many other agencies in the effort to find missing 
                children and prevent child victimization; and
                    ``(C) operates a national and increasingly worldwide 
                network, linking the Center online with each of the 
                missing

[[Page 117 STAT. 1172]]

                children clearinghouses operated by the 50 States, the 
                District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, as well as with 
                Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, the Royal Canadian 
                Mounted Police, INTERPOL headquarters in Lyon, France, 
                and others, which enable the Center to transmit images 
                and information regarding missing children to law 
                enforcement across the United States and around the 
                world instantly.''.

SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Annual Grant to National Center for Missing and Exploited 
Children.--Section 404(b)(2) of the Missing Children's Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5773(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``2005'' and inserting 
``2008''.
    (b) In General.--Section 408(a) of the Missing Children's Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5777(a)) is amended by striking ``2005.'' and inserting 
``2008''.

    Approved October 10, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1925 (S. 1451):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-118 (Comm. on Education and the Workforce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            May 20, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 30, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>