[108th Congress Public Law 430]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ430.108]


[[Page 2605]]

          PETRIFIED FOREST NATIONAL PARK EXPANSION ACT OF 2004

[[Page 118 STAT. 2606]]

Public Law 108-430
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To revise the boundary of the Petrified Forest National Park in the 
State of Arizona, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 3, 2004 -  [H.R. 
                                1630]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Petrified Forest 
National Park Expansion Act of 2004.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Petrified Forest National Park 
Expansion Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Boundary Adjustments, Petrified Forest National Park'', numbered 
        110/80,044, and dated July 2004.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Petrified Forest 
        National Park in the State.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Arizona.

SEC. 3. BOUNDARY REVISION. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    (a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized to revise the boundary 
of the Park to include approximately 125,000 acres as depicted on the 
map.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.

SEC. 4. ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL LAND. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    (a) Private Land.--The Secretary may acquire from a willing seller, 
by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, 
any private land or interests in private land within the revised 
boundary of the Park. In acquiring private land and interests in private 
land within the revised boundary of the Park, the Secretary shall 
undertake to acquire such private land and interests in private land 
first by donation or exchange.
    (b) State Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may, with the consent of the 
        State and in accordance with Federal and State law, acquire from 
        the State any State land or interests in State land within the 
        revised boundary of the Park.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Plan.--Not later than 3 years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, in 
        coordination with the State, develop a plan for acquisition for 
        State land or interests in State land under paragraph (1).

[[Page 118 STAT. 2607]]

            (3) Management agreement.--If the Secretary is unable to 
        acquire the State land under paragraph (1) within the 3-year 
        period required by paragraph (2), the Secretary may enter into 
        an agreement that would allow the National Park Service to 
        manage State land within the revised boundary of the Park.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    (a) In General.--Subject to applicable laws, all land and interests 
in land acquired under this Act shall be administered by the Secretary 
as part of the Park.
    (b) Transfer of Jurisdiction.--The Secretary shall transfer to the 
National Park Service administrative jurisdiction over any land under 
the jurisdiction of the Secretary that--
            (1) is depicted on the map as being within the boundaries of 
        the Park; and
            (2) is not under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
        National Park Service on the date of enactment of this Act.

    (c) Exchange After Enactment.--Upon completion of an exchange of 
land after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
transfer administrative jurisdiction over the exchanged lands within the 
boundary of the Park as depicted on the map to the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Grazing.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall permit the continuation 
        of grazing on land transferred to the Secretary under this Act, 
        subject to applicable laws, regulations, and Executive orders.
            (2) Termination of leases or permits.--Nothing in this 
        subsection prohibits the Secretary from accepting the voluntary 
        termination of a grazing permit or grazing lease within the 
        Park.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Amendment to General Management Plan.--Not 
later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall amend the general management plan for the Park to 
address the use and management of any additional land acquired under 
this Act.

[[Page 118 STAT. 2608]]

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 119 note.>> 

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved December 3, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1630:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-713 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Oct. 4, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 10, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 19, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>