[108th Congress Public Law 230]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ230.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 646]]

Public Law 108-230
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To require the conveyance of certain National Forest System lands in 
  Mendocino National Forest, California, to provide for the use of the 
  proceeds from such conveyance for National Forest purposes, and for 
          other purposes. <<NOTE: May 28, 2004 -  [H.R. 708]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, FARAWAY RANCH, MENDOCINO NATIONAL FOREST, 
            CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall convey to the owner of the property known as the 
Faraway Ranch in Lake County, California (in this section referred to as 
the ``recipient''), by quitclaim deed, all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to the following National Forest System lands 
in Mendocino National Forest in Lake County, California:
            (1) ``Faraway Ranch, Tract 39'' (approximately 15.8 acres), 
        consisting of a portion of lot 6 of section 4, township 18 
        north, range 10 west, Mount Diablo base and meridian, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Faraway Ranch, Tracts 
        39 and 40'' and dated June 30, 2002.
            (2) ``Faraway Ranch, Tract 40'' (approximately 105.1 acres) 
        consisting of a portion of the N1/2SW1/4 and lot 7 of section 4, 
        and a portion of lots 15 and 16 of section 5, township 18 north, 
        range 10 west, Mount Diablo base and meridian, as generally 
        depicted on the map referred to in paragraph (1).

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Time for Conveyance.--The Secretary shall 
make the conveyance under subsection (a) not later than 120 days after 
the date on which the recipient deposits sufficient funds with the 
Bureau of Land Management, California State Office, Branch of Geographic 
Services, to cover survey work costs and with the Forest Service, 
Mendocino National Forest, to cover Forest Service direct transaction 
costs described in subsection (e).

    (c) Corrections.--With the agreement of the recipient, the Secretary 
may make minor corrections to the legal descriptions and map of the 
lands to be conveyed pursuant to this section.
    (d) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the recipient shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal 
to the fair market value of the National Forest System lands conveyed 
under such subsection. The fair market value of such lands shall be 
determined by an appraisal that is acceptable to the Secretary and 
conforms with the Federal appraisal standards, as defined in the Uniform 
Appraisal Standards for Federal Land

[[Page 118 STAT. 647]]

Acquisitions developed by the Interagency Land Acquisition Conference.
    (e) Payment of Costs.--All direct transaction costs associated with 
the conveyance under subsection (a), including the costs of appraisal, 
title, and survey work, shall be paid by the recipient.
    (f) Use of Proceeds.--
            (1) Deposit.--The Secretary shall deposit the amounts 
        received by the Secretary as consideration under subsection (d) 
        in the fund established by Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as 
        the Sisk Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a).
            (2) Use.--Funds deposited under paragraph (1) shall be 
        available to the Secretary until expended, without further 
        appropriation--
                    (A) for the acquisition of land and interests in 
                land for National Forest System purposes in the State of 
                California; and
                    (B) for reimbursement of costs incurred by the 
                Forest Service in making the conveyance under subsection 
                (a).
            (3) Status of acquired land.--Notwithstanding Public Law 85-
        862 (16 U.S.C. 521a), any lands acquired under paragraph (2)(A) 
        shall be managed as lands acquired under the Act of March 1, 
        1911 (commonly known as the Weeks Act; 16 U.S.C. 480, 500, 515 
        et seq.), regardless of whether any of the lands conveyed under 
        subsection (a) were reserved from the public domain.

SEC. 2. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the lands to be conveyed under 
subsection (a) of section 1 are hereby withdrawn from all forms of 
location, entry, and patent under the public land laws and the mining 
and mineral leasing laws of the United States.

    Approved May 28, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 708:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-293 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-242 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 149 (2003):
                                    Oct. 8, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 150 (2004):
                                    May 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>