[108th Congress Public Law 83]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ083.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1007]]

Public Law 108-83
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 2004, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 
                         2003 -  [H.R. 2657]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2004.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2004, and for 
other purposes, namely:

TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE <<NOTE: 2 USC 60a note.>> BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $20,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $20,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$20,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $20,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $10,000; President Pro 
Tempore emeritus, $7,500; Chairmen of the Majority and Minority 
Conference Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; in 
all, $127,500.

     Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $125,307,000, which shall be paid 
  from this appropriation without regard to the following limitations:

              For the Office of the Vice President, $2,028,000.

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $539,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1008]]

              office of the president pro tempore emeritus

       For the Office of the President Pro Tempore emeritus, $156,000.

        For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $3,220,000.

         For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $2,324,000.

        For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $12,799,000.

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
 such committee, $1,358,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,716,000.

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
                the Conference of the Minority, $674,000.

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,417,000 for each such committee; in all, 
                               $2,834,000.

                    For Office of the Chaplain, $327,000.

                  For Office of the Secretary, $18,299,000.

       For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $45,789,000.

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
                        the Minority, $1,468,000.

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $32,134,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $4,843,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1009]]

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,222,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $6,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $6,000; in all, $24,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under section 134(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act 
of 1946 (Public Law 97-601), section 112 of the Supplemental 
Appropriations and Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate 
 Resolution 281, 96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $118,462,000.

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
                      Narcotics Control, $520,000.

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$2,265,000, of which $500,000 shall be transferred to the Senate 
Preservation Fund and shall be available without fiscal year limitation.

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $135,243,000, of which $30,835,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2006, and of which $4,255,000 shall remain available 
                        until September 30, 2008.

    For miscellaneous items, $18,425,000, of which up to $500,000 shall 
be made available for a pilot program for mailings of postal patron 
postcards by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town 
meeting by a Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local 
government) at which the Senator will personally attend: Provided, That 
any amount allocated to a Senator for such mailing shall not exceed 50 
percent of the cost of the mailing and the remaining cost shall be paid 
by the Senator from other funds available to the Senator.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1010]]

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
                              $310,000,000.

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
                                $300,000.

    Sec. 1. <<NOTE: 2 USC 61-1.>> Gross Rate of Compensation in Offices 
of Senators. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective on and after October 1, 
2003, each of the dollar amounts contained in the table under section 
105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 
U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that 
table, as adjusted by law and in effect on September 30, 2003, increased 
by an additional $50,000 each.

    Sec. 2. Payment of Expenses of Conferences of Majority and Minority. 
(a) In General.--Section 120 of Public Law 97-51 (2 U.S.C. 61g-6) is 
amended in the first sentence by striking ``an amount, not in excess of 
$100,000,'' and inserting ``such amount as necessary''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 61g-6 note. 2 USC 2108.>> Effective 
Date.--This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2004, and 
each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 3. Provisions Relating to Senate Commission on Art. (a) 
Authority To Acquire and Dispose.--
            (1) In general.--The Senate Commission on Art (referred to 
        in this section as the ``Commission'') may--
                    (A) accept gifts of money; and
                    (B) acquire (by gift, purchase, or otherwise) any 
                work of art, historical object, document, or material 
                relating to historical matters, or exhibit, for 
                placement or exhibition in the Senate Wing of the 
                Capitol, the Senate Office Buildings, or in rooms, 
                spaces, or corridors thereof.
            (2) Accession or disposal.--All works of art, historical 
        objects, documents, or material related to historical matters, 
        or exhibits, acquired by the Commission may, as determined by 
        the Commission and after consultation with the Curatorial 
        Advisory Board, be--
                    (A) retained for accession to the United States 
                Senate Collection or other use; or
                    (B) disposed of by sale or other transaction.
            (3) Repeal.--Senate Resolution 95, 92d Congress, agreed to 
        April 1, 1971, and enacted into law by section 901(a) of Public 
        Law 100-696 (2 U.S.C. 2106) is repealed.

    (b) Advisory Boards.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Establishment.>> Curatorial advisory board.--
        There is established a Board which shall be chaired by the 
        Senate Curator. The Curatorial Advisory Board shall provide 
        advice and assistance to the Commission on the acquisition, 
        care, and disposition of items for or within the United States 
        Senate Collection, and on such other matters as the Commission 
        determines appropriate.
            (2) Additional advisory boards.--

[[Page 117 STAT. 1011]]

                    (A) In general.--The Commission, or the chairman and 
                vice chairman acting jointly on behalf of the Commission 
                and after giving notice to the Commission, may establish 
                1 or more additional advisory boards.
                    (B) Term.--The term of existence for an additional 
                advisory board--
                          (i) shall be specified by the Commission but 
                      no longer than 4 years; and
                          (ii) shall be renewable.
                    (C) Purpose.--The purpose of an additional advisory 
                board shall be to provide advice and assistance to the 
                Commission and to further the purposes of the 
                Commission.
            (3) Appointments.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Curatorial Advisory Board and other advisory boards 
                established by the Commission under paragraph (2) shall 
                be composed of members appointed by the Commission, or 
                the chairman and vice chairman acting jointly on behalf 
                of the Commission and after giving notice to the 
                Commission.
                    (B) Applicable rules.--Members appointed under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) shall be appointed from public and private 
                      life and shall serve at the pleasure of the 
                      Commission; and
                          (ii) in the case of individuals appointed to 
                      the Curatorial Advisory Board, shall be experts or 
                      have significant experience in the field of arts, 
                      historic preservation, or other appropriate 
                      fields.
                Each member of the Commission may have appointed to an 
                advisory board created by the Commission at least 1 
                individual requested by that member.
            (4) Members.--A member of a board under this subsection--
                    (A) may, at the discretion of the Commission, be 
                reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in 
                the performance of the official duties of the board from 
                any funds available to the Commission in accordance with 
                applicable Senate regulations for such expenses; and
                    (B) shall not, by virtue of such member's service on 
                the board, be deemed to be an officer, employee, or 
                agent of the Senate and may not bind the Senate in any 
                contract or obligation.
            (5) Terms for additional advisory board members.--Members 
        appointed to the other advisory boards created under paragraph 
        (2) shall serve for terms as stated in their appointment, but no 
        longer than a term of 4 years, except that any member may be 
        reappointed upon the expiration of their term.
            (6) Regulations.--The Commission, or the chairman and vice 
        chairman acting jointly on behalf of the Commission and after 
        giving notice to the Commission, in consultation with the 
        Committee on Rules and Administration, may promulgate such 
        regulations governing advisory boards established under this 
        subsection as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this 
        subsection.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1012]]

            (7) Assistance.--The Executive Secretary of the Commission 
        shall provide assistance to an advisory board as authorized by 
        the Commission.

    (c) Establishment of Senate Preservation Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a 
        fund, to be known as the ``Senate Preservation Fund'' (in this 
        section referred to as the ``fund''), which shall consist of 
        amounts deposited and credited under paragraph (3).
            (2) Payment of costs.--The fund shall be available to the 
        Commission for the payment of acquisition and transaction costs 
        incurred for acquisitions under subsection (a), for official 
        activities of any advisory board established under subsection 
        (b), and for any purposes for which funds from the contingent 
        fund of the Senate may be used under section 316(a) of Public 
        Law 101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107).
            (3) Deposits, credits, and disbursements.--
                    (A) Deposits.--The Commission shall deposit in the 
                fund amounts appropriated for use of the fund, gifts of 
                money, and proceeds of transactions under subsection 
                (a).
                    (B) Credits.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                credit to the fund the interest on, and the proceeds 
                from sale or redemption of, obligations held in the 
                fund.
                    (C) Disbursements.--Disbursements from the fund 
                shall be made on vouchers approved by the Commission and 
                signed by the Executive Secretary of the Commission.
            (4) Investments.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                invest any portion of the fund that, as determined by 
                the Commission, is not required to meet current 
                withdrawals.
                    (B) Type of obligation.--Each investment required by 
                this paragraph shall be made in an interest bearing 
                obligation of the United States or an obligation 
                guaranteed as to the principal and interest by the 
                United States that, as determined by the Commission, has 
                a maturity suitable for the fund.
                    (C) Commission approval.--In carrying out this 
                subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury may make such 
                purchases, sales, and redemption of obligations as may 
                be approved by the Commission.
            (5) Services and support.--The Library of Congress shall 
        provide financial management and disbursing services and support 
        to the Commission as may be required and mutually agreed to by 
        the Librarian of Congress and the Executive Secretary of the 
        Commission.
            (6) <<NOTE: Reports.>> Audits.--The Comptroller General of 
        the United States shall conduct annual audits of the Senate 
        Preservation Fund and shall report the results of each audit to 
        the Commission.

    (d) Administrative Changes.--
            (1) Senate commission on art.--Section 1 of Senate 
        Resolution 382, 90th Congress, agreed to October 1, 1968, and 
        enacted into law by section 901(a) of Public Law 100-696 (2 
        U.S.C. 2101) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking the first 
                sentence and inserting ``The Majority Leader and 
                Minority Leader of the Senate shall be the chairman and 
                vice chairman, respectively, of the Commission.''; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1013]]

                    (B) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
                following:

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Appointment.>> The Secretary of the Senate shall 
appoint a Senate Curator approved by the Senate Commission on Art. The 
Senate Curator shall be an employee of the Secretary of the Senate 
assigned to assist the Commission. The Secretary of the Senate shall 
assign additional employees to assist the Commission, and provide such 
other assistance, as the Commission determines necessary.''.
            (2) Purchase of art.--The first sentence of section 316(a) 
        of Public Law 101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107(a)) is amended by inserting 
        after ``in which incurred,'' the following: ``for the purchase 
        of art and historical objects for the United States Senate 
        Collection, for exhibits and public education relating to the 
        United States Senate Collection, for administrative and 
        transitional expenses of the Senate Commission on Art, and''.

    Sec. 4. Orientation Seminars. The first sentence of section 107(a) 
of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1979 (Public Law 96-38; 2 U.S.C. 
69a) is amended by striking ``$10,000'' and inserting ``$25,000''.
    Sec. 5. Expense Allowances for Certain Officers of the Senate. (a) 
In General.--Section 119(a) of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint 
resolution making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1982, 
and for other purposes'', approved October 1, 1981 (2 U.S.C. 65c) is 
amended by striking ``$3,000'' and inserting ``$6,000''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 65c note.>> Effective Date.--The 
amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 
2004, and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 6. <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 61h-6 note.>> Consultants. With 
respect to fiscal year 2004, the first sentence of section 101(a) of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) shall be 
applied by substituting ``nine individual consultants'' for ``eight 
individual consultants''.

    Sec. 7. United States Senate Collection. Section 316 of Public Law 
101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107) is amended in the first sentence of subsection 
(a) by striking ``2003'' and inserting ``2004''.
    Sec. 8. Data Communication Lines. Notwithstanding section 1348 of 
title 31, United States Code, the Committee on Rules and Administration 
of the Senate may authorize the installation of data communication lines 
and other appropriate Internet connections (not including voice 
connections) in the private residence of a Senator and up to 2 staff 
members designated by a Senator and the majority and minority staff 
director of a committee for conducting the work of the Senate subject to 
guidelines issued by the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 9. <<NOTE: 2 USC 61f-11.>> Provision of Services and Equipment 
on a Reimbursable Basis.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate may provide services and equipment funded by appropriations 
available to the Senate to persons and entities not funded by such 
appropriations.
    (b) Reimbursement Required.--The provision of services and equipment 
under subsection (a) shall be on a reimbursable basis.
    (c) Crediting of Reimbursed Amounts.--In the case of services or 
equipment provided under subsection (a) that were procured using amounts 
available to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate in the 
account for Contingent Expenses, Sergeant

[[Page 117 STAT. 1014]]

at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, amounts received under subsection 
(b) as reimbursement for the provision of such services or equipment 
shall be credited to that account or, if applicable, to any subaccount 
of that account. Amounts credited to any such account or subaccount 
shall be merged with amounts in that account or subaccount and shall be 
available to the same extent, and subject to the same terms and 
conditions, as amounts in that account or subaccount.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply to fiscal year 2004 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 10. <<NOTE: 2 USC 61-1 note.>> High Cost of Living Allowance. 
(a) In General.--Under the authority of section 105(d)(2) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(2)), a 
Senator from a noncontiguous State may pay a high cost of living 
allowance to any employee employed in an office of the Senator located 
in that State.

    (b) Limitation.--An allowance under this section may not exceed 25 
percent of the basic pay of an employee, determined without regard to 
this section.
    (c) Basic Pay Treatment.--An allowance under this section shall be 
treated as part of the basic pay of an employee.
    (d) Payment.--
            (1) Aggregate gross compensation.--The amount of any 
        allowance under this section shall not be taken into account for 
        determining the amount of aggregate gross compensation in the 
        table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)).
            (2) Appropriations.--Allowances under this section shall be 
        paid from appropriations under the heading ``senators' official 
        personnel and office expense account''.

    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2004 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
                       $1,014,464,000, as follows:

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $18,142,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $2,630,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,965,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $2,756,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,684,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,259,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $460,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $862,000; Republican Conference, $1,448,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,542,000; Democratic Caucus, $768,000; 
nine minority employees, $1,380,000; training and program development--
majority, $290,000; training and program development--minority,

[[Page 117 STAT. 1015]]

$290,000; Cloakroom Personnel--majority, $404,000; and Cloakroom 
Personnel--minority, $404,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $514,454,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $107,188,000: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2004.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$24,926,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2004.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $156,896,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $13,000, of which not 
more than $10,000 is for the Family Room, for official representation 
and reception expenses, $19,452,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent 
of Garages, and including not more than $3,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $5,471,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, 
$111,141,000, of which $8,400,000 shall remain available until expended; 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
$3,847,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of Emergency 
Planning, Preparedness and Operations, $5,200,000, to remain available 
until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of General 
Counsel, $926,000; for the Office of the Chaplain, $153,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Parliamentarian, including 
the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, 
$1,560,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision 
Counsel of the House, $2,263,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Legislative Counsel of the House, $6,233,000; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $500,000; and 
for other authorized employees, $150,000: Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading to the Office of the Chief Administrative 
Officer, up to $2,500,000 may be transferred to

[[Page 117 STAT. 1016]]

the Office of the Architect of the Capitol, subject to the approval of 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

                         Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $192,858,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,975,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $187,783,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of 
House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
heirs of deceased employees of the House, $690,000.

                            Child Care Center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (2 
U.S.C. 2112), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2004. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2004 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 102. None of the funds in this Act may be used to provide 
supplemental dental or vision health insurance benefits for Members and 
employees of the House of Representatives.
    Sec. <<NOTE: 2 USC 130-2.>> 103. Office of Interparliamentary 
Affairs.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the House of 
Representatives an office to be known as the ``Office of 
Interparliamentary Affairs'' (hereafter in this section referred to as 
the ``Office'').
    (b) Duties.--The duties of the Office are as follows:
            (1) To receive and respond to inquiries from foreign 
        parliamentarians or foreign legislative bodies regarding 
        official visits to the House of Representatives.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1017]]

            (2) To coordinate official visits to the House of 
        Representatives by parliamentarians, officers, or employees of 
        foreign legislative bodies.
            (3) To coordinate with the Sergeant at Arms, the Clerk, and 
        other officers of the House of Representatives in providing 
        services for delegations of Members on official visits to 
        foreign nations.
            (4) To carry out other activities to--
                    (A) discharge and coordinate the activities and 
                responsibilities of the House of Representatives in 
                connection with participation in various 
                interparliamentary exchanges and organizations;
                    (B) facilitate the interchange and reception in the 
                United States of members of foreign legislative bodies 
                and permanent officials of foreign governments; and
                    (C) enable the House to host meetings with senior 
                government officials and other dignitaries in order to 
                discuss matters relevant to United States relations with 
                other nations.

    (c) Director.--
            (1) Appointment.--The Office shall be headed by the Director 
        of Interparliamentary Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Director''), who 
        shall be appointed by the Speaker without regard to political 
        affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the 
        duties of the position. Any person so appointed shall serve at 
        the pleasure of the Speaker.
            (2) Compensation.--The Director shall be paid at an annual 
        rate determined by the Speaker.

    (d) Other Staff.--
            (1) In general.--With the approval of the Speaker, or in 
        accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Speaker, 
        the Director may appoint and set the pay of such other employees 
        as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Office. 
        Any such appointment shall be made without regard to political 
        affiliation and solely on the basis of fitness to perform the 
        duties of the position. Any person so appointed may be removed 
        by the Director with the approval of the Speaker, or in 
        accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Speaker.
            (2) Compensation.--Any employee of the Office appointed 
        under this subsection shall be paid at an annual rate determined 
        by the Director with the approval of the Speaker or in 
        accordance with policies approved by the Speaker.

    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b) of the first section of 
House Resolution 1047, Ninety Fifth Congress, agreed to April 4, 1978, 
as enacted into permanent law by section 111 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1979 (2 U.S.C. 130-1), is amended by striking 
``$80,000'' and inserting ``$40,000''.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding fiscal year such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    (g) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect upon the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 104. (a) Section 8401(20) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting the 
following: ``, and who (in the case of an individual who is

[[Page 117 STAT. 1018]]

a Member of the House of Representatives, including a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to the Congress) serves as a Member prior to the 
date of the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2004;''.
    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 8401 note.>> During the 60-day 
period which begins on the date of the enactment of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2004, any individual who, as of such date, is 
serving as a Member of the House of Representatives and on such date is 
not subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, may elect to 
become subject to such chapter.

    (2) Any election under this paragraph shall be carried out in 
accordance with such procedures as the Office of Personnel Management 
may provide.
    (3) In this subsection, the term ``Member of the House of 
Representatives'' includes a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 105. (a) Section 311(d) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 59e(d)) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by striking ``in the House, or official expenses''; and
            (2) by striking ``in the Senate''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 59e note.>> The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2004 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 74d note.>> (a)(1) Effective 
October 1, 2003--
            (A) 3 of the positions in the Corrections Calendar Office, 
        and the functions associated with such positions, shall be 
        transferred to the Office of the Speaker; and
            (B) 2 of the positions in the Corrections Calendar Office, 
        and the functions associated with such positions, shall be 
        transferred to the Office of the Minority Leader.

    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of any 
individual who is an incumbent of a position transferred under paragraph 
(1) at the time of the transfer, the total number of days of annual 
leave and the total number of days of sick leave which were provided by 
the Corrections Calendar Office to the individual and which remain 
unused as of the date of the transfer shall remain available for the 
individual to use after the transfer.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective with respect to fiscal year 
2004 and each succeeding fiscal year, the lump sum allowance for 
salaries and expenses of the Corrections Calendar Office provided under 
House Resolution 130, One Hundred Fifth Congress, agreed to April 24, 
1997, as enacted into permanent law by section 101 of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1998 (2 U.S.C. 74d-1 et seq.), is transferred 
as follows:
            (1) 63.5 percent of such allowance shall be transferred to 
        the Office of the Speaker.
            (2) 36.5 percent of such allowance shall be transferred to 
        the Office of the Minority Leader.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

[[Page 117 STAT. 1019]]

      Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 2005

    For salaries and expenses associated with conducting the inaugural 
ceremonies of the President and Vice President of the United States, 
January 20, 2005, in accordance with such program as may be adopted by 
the joint congressional committee authorized to conduct the inaugural 
ceremonies of 2005, $1,250,000 to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate and to remain available until September 30, 2005. Funds made 
available under this heading shall be available for payment, on a direct 
or reimbursable basis, whether incurred on, before, or after, October 1, 
2004: <<NOTE: Compensation.>> Provided, That the compensation of any 
employee of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate who 
has been designated to perform service with respect to the inaugural 
ceremonies of 2005 shall continue to be paid by the Committee on Rules 
and Administration, but the account from which such staff member is paid 
may be reimbursed for the services of the staff member (including agency 
contributions when appropriate) out of funds made available under this 
heading.

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,988,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$8,112,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $725 per month each to four medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $725 per month to two assistants and $580 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,566,000 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $2,236,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $3,511,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than 58 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is 
authorized, during emergencies, to

[[Page 117 STAT. 1020]]

employ not more than two additional individuals for not more than 120 
days each, and not more than 10 additional individuals for not more than 
6 months each, for the Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the 108th Congress, showing 
appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, social security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $197,600,000, to be disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol 
Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation of 
instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $23,500,000, of which 
$1,745,000 shall remain available until expended, to be disbursed by the 
Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic training 
for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center 
for fiscal year 2004 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
from funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1001. Transfer Authority. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 
2004 for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings 
``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 1002. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1908.>> Legal Representation Authority. (a) 
In General.--
            (1) Authorization of representation.--Any counsel described 
        under paragraph (2) may for the purposes of providing

[[Page 117 STAT. 1021]]

        legal assistance and representation to the United States Capitol 
        Police Board or the United States Capitol Police enter an 
        appearance in any proceeding before any court of the United 
        States or of any State or political subdivision thereof, without 
        compliance with any requirement for admission to practice before 
        such court.
            (2) Counsel.--Paragraph (1) refers to--
                    (A) the General Counsel for the United States 
                Capitol Police Board and the Chief of the Capitol 
                Police;
                    (B) the Employment Counsel for the United States 
                Capitol Police Board and the United States Capitol 
                Police;
                    (C) any attorney employed in the Office of the 
                General Counsel for the United States Capitol Police or 
                the Office of Employment Counsel for the United States 
                Capitol Police;
                    (D) the counsel for, or any attorney employed by, 
                any successor office of either office described under 
                subparagraph (C); and
                    (E) any attorney retained by contract with either 
                office described under subparagraph (C).

    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) Direction for appearance.--Entrance of appearance 
        authorized under subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
        direction of the Capitol Police Board.
            (2) United states supreme court.--The authority under 
        subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to the admission of 
        any person to practice before the United States Supreme Court.

    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply to fiscal year 2004, and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 1003. Extended Capitol Police Jurisdiction Zone for the Truck 
Interdiction Program. (a) In General.--Section 9B of the Act entitled 
``An Act to define the area of the United States Capitol Grounds, to 
regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes'', approved July 31, 
1946 (2 U.S.C. 1967) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``in subsection 
                (b) of this section.'' and inserting ``under subsection 
                (b)(1); and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) within the area described under subsection (b)(2)--
                    ``(A) with respect to any crime of violence 
                committed in the presence of the member, if the member 
                is in the performance of official duties, as defined 
                under such regulations, when the crime is committed; and
                    ``(B) to prevent imminent loss of life or injury to 
                person or property, if the officer is in the performance 
                of official duties, as defined under such regulations, 
                when the authority is exercised.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The area referred to under subsection (a)(5) is that 
        area bounded by the north curb of Constitution Avenue from 14th 
        Street, N.W., to 3rd Street, N.W., the east curb of 3rd

[[Page 117 STAT. 1022]]

        Street from Constitution Avenue, N.W., to Independence Avenue, 
        S.W., the south curb of Independence Avenue from 3rd Street, 
        S.W., to 14th Street, S.W., and the west curb of 14th Street 
        from Independence Avenue, S.W., to Constitution Avenue, N.W.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 2 USC 1967 note.>> Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to limit the authority 
of the Capitol Police as in effect before the effective date of this 
section.

    (c) <<NOTE: Regulations. 2 USC 1967 note.>> Effective Date.--This 
section shall take effect on the date on which the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate and the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives approve regulations 
prescribed by the Capitol Police Board for the sole implementation, 
execution and maintenance of the truck interdiction program.

    Sec. 1004. <<NOTE: 5 USC 8331 note.>> Retirement Treatment for 
Capitol Police Hazardous Materials Response Team Members. (a) Retirement 
Treatment.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of chapters 83 and 84 of title 
        5, United States Code, a hazardous materials response team 
        member of the Capitol Police shall be treated as a member of the 
        Capitol Police.
            (2) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Application.--This subsection 
        shall apply to periods of service performed as a hazardous 
        materials response team member of the Capitol Police on and 
        after December 1, 2002.

    (b) Treatment of Incumbents.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection, the term--
                    (A) ``incumbent'' means an individual who--
                          (i) is first appointed as a hazardous 
                      materials response team member of the Capitol 
                      Police before the effective date of this section; 
                      and
                          (ii) is employed as a hazardous materials 
                      response team member of the Capitol Police on that 
                      date; and
                    (B) ``prior service'' means any period of service 
                performed by an incumbent as a hazardous materials 
                response team member of the Capitol Police before the 
                effective date of this section.
            (2) Individual contributions.--
                    (A) In general.--An incumbent shall pay with respect 
                to prior service an amount into the Civil Service 
                Retirement and Disability Fund equal to--
                          (i) the difference between the individual 
                      contributions that were actually made for such 
                      prior service and the individual contributions 
                      that would have been made for such service if 
                      subsection (a) had then been in effect; and
                          (ii) interest computed on the amount under 
                      clause (i) based on section 8334(e) of title 5, 
                      United States Code.
                    (B) Effect of not contributing.--If no part of or 
                less than the full amount required under subparagraph 
                (A) is paid, all prior service of the incumbent shall 
                remain fully creditable as treated under subsection (a), 
                but the resulting annuity shall be reduced in a manner 
                similar to that described under section 8334(d)(2) of 
                title 5, United States Code, to the extent necessary to 
                make up the amount unpaid.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1023]]

            (3) Government contributions for prior service.--The Capitol 
        Police shall pay with respect to prior service of each incumbent 
        an amount into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund 
        equal to--
                    (A) the difference between the Government 
                contributions that were actually made for such prior 
                service and the Government contributions that would have 
                been made for such service if subsection (a) had then 
                been in effect; and
                    (B) interest computed on the amount under 
                subparagraph (A) based on section 8334(e) of title 5, 
                United States Code.

    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the first day 
of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 1005. Technical. (a) In General.--Section 1005 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-7; 117 Stat. 
358) is repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--The repeal made by this section shall be 
effective as of February 20, 2003.
    Sec. 1006. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1901 note.>> Training, Detailing, and 
Hiring Authority Pending Transfer of Library of Congress Police 
Employees. (a) Training and Detailing.--
            (1) In general.--To provide for a more effective and 
        efficient transfer under section 1015 of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1901 note)--
                    (A) the Chief of the Capitol Police shall provide 
                for training, on a reimbursable basis, of Library of 
                Congress Police employees who on the date of enactment 
                of this Act, are 42 years of age or less and have 5 
                years or less of service as a Library of Congress Police 
                employee, which shall be supplemental to Library of 
                Congress Police training;
                    (B) the Librarian of Congress may detail, with or 
                without reimbursement, Library of Congress Police 
                employees to the Capitol Police; and
                    (C) the Chief of the Capitol Police may detail, on a 
                reimbursable basis, members of the Capitol Police to the 
                Library of Congress Police.
            (2) Beginning of training.--Training under paragraph (1) 
        shall begin within 90 days of the date of enactment of this Act.
            (b) Hiring.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms ``Act of 
        August 4, 1950'' and ``Library of Congress Police employee'' 
        have the meanings given such terms under section 1015(c) of the 
        Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1901 
        note).
            (2) Limitation on new library of congress police 
        employees.--Notwithstanding the first section of the Act of 
        August 4, 1950 or any other provision of law, the Librarian of 
        Congress may not--
                    (A) hire any individual as a Library of Congress 
                Police employee; or
                    (B) transfer any employee of the Library of Congress 
                to a Library of Congress Police employee position.
            (3) Hiring of individuals.--

[[Page 117 STAT. 1024]]

                    (A) In general.--The Librarian of Congress may 
                select individuals to be submitted to the Chief of the 
                Capitol Police for purposes of subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Hiring.--If an individual submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) meets all qualifications to be a member 
                of the Capitol Police, the Chief of the Capitol Police 
                shall hire that individual as a member of the Capitol 
                Police.
                    (C) Limitation.--During fiscal year 2004, the number 
                of individuals hired under this subsection may not 
                exceed the total of--
                          (i) 23 individuals; and
                          (ii) the number of Library of Congress Police 
                      employees who separate from service or transfer to 
                      a position other than a Library of Congress Police 
                      employee position.
            (4) Training and detailing.--An individual hired under this 
        subsection shall receive necessary training, including training 
        by the Library of Congress Police, and be detailed to the 
        Library of Congress Police.
            (5) Assignments and reassignments.--Nothing under this 
        subsection may be construed to affect the authority of the Chief 
        of the Capitol Police, after the date of the transfer of Library 
        of Congress Police employees under section 1015 of the 
        Legislative Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1901 note), to 
        assign or reassign any member of the Capitol Police hired under 
        this subsection.
            (6) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective date.--This 
        subsection shall take effect on the date of enactment of this 
        Act and apply with respect to--
                    (A) any remaining portion of fiscal year 2003, if 
                this Act is enacted before October 1, 2003; and
                    (B) fiscal year 2004 and each fiscal year, 
                thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,255,000, of which $304,700 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2005: Provided, That the Executive Director of the Office 
of Compliance may, within the limits of available appropriations, 
dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by interagency 
transfer, donation, or discarding.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $3,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $33,820,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used 
for the purchase or hire of a passenger motor vehicle.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1025]]

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $77,053,000, of which $4,200,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2008.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $28,188,000, of which $13,002,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2008.

                             Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $6,886,000, of which $585,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2008.

                         Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$63,388,000, of which $17,433,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2008.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $62,816,000, of which $27,750,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2008.

                           Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which

[[Page 117 STAT. 1026]]

shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request of the Architect of the 
Capitol and amounts so received shall be deposited into the Treasury to 
the credit of this appropriation, $81,543,000, of which $36,652,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That not more 
than $4,400,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2004.

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$39,159,000, of which $21,286,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2008.

                  Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care, and operation 
of buildings and grounds of the United States Capitol Police, 
$3,308,000, of which $2,075,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2008.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $6,189,000, of which $152,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2008: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for construction of the National 
Garden.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For an additional amount for the Capitol Visitor Center project, 
$35,800,000, to remain available until expended, and in addition, 
$1,039,000 for Capitol Visitor Center operation costs of which $750,000 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That in addition to 
such amounts, there is transferred to the account under this heading 
$12,000,000 of the amounts made available for the United States Capitol 
Police headquarters under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'', 
``Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds'' in chapter 8 of title I of the 
Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-
11; 117 Stat. 586), to remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the Architect of the Capitol may not obligate any of the 
funds which are made available for the Capitol Visitor Center without an 
obligation plan approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and House of Representatives: Provided further, That the total 
amount of Federal funds which may be obligated or expended on, before, 
or after the date of the enactment of this Act for the construction of a 
tunnel connecting the Capitol Visitor Center with the Library of 
Congress may not exceed $10,000,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1027]]

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1101. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1831 note.>> (a) Section 133(a) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-68; 115 
Stat. 581), is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end of paragraph (2) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(E) An individual who is covered by a collective 
        bargaining agreement entered into by the Architect of the 
        Capitol establishing terms and conditions of employment which 
        include eligibility for life insurance, health insurance, 
        retirement, and other benefits.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

    ``(4) The Architect of the Capitol shall make employer contributions 
for benefits for employees of the Architect (including temporary 
employees) directly to any third party designated to receive such 
contributions on behalf of the employees under a collective bargaining 
agreement, participation agreement, or any other arrangement entered 
into by the Architect which provides for such contributions.''.
    (b) Any individual who exercised an option offered by the Architect 
of the Capitol under section 133(a)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2002, prior to the date of the enactment of this Act 
may revoke the option during the 90-day period which begins on the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendments made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect as if included in the enactment of section 133(a) of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon enactment of 
this Act the Architect of the Capitol shall take all steps which may be 
required to carry out section 133(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2002.
    Sec. 1102. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1822.>> Leasing of Space. (a) In General.--
Funds appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol shall be available--
            (1) for the leasing of space in areas within the District of 
        Columbia and its environs beyond the boundaries of the United 
        States Capitol Grounds to meet space requirements of the United 
        States Senate, United States House of Representatives, United 
        States Capitol Police, and the Architect of the Capitol under 
        such terms and conditions as the Committee or Commission 
        referred to under subsection (b) may authorize; and
            (2) to incur any necessary expense in connection with any 
        leasing of space under paragraph (1).

    (b) Conditions to Lease Space.--The Architect of the Capitol may 
lease space under subsection (a) upon submission of written notice of 
intent to lease such space to, and approved by--
            (1) the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate 
        for space to be leased for the Senate;
            (2) the House Office Building Commission for space to be 
        leased for the House of Representatives; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House 
        of Representatives.

    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2004, and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 1103. (a) In General.--There are transferred into the account 
under the subheading ``General Administration'' under

[[Page 117 STAT. 1028]]

the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' $63,000,000, of which--
            (1) $44,000,000 shall be transferred from unobligated funds 
        transferred to ``Architect of the Capitol'', ``Capitol Buildings 
        and Grounds'', ``Capitol Buildings'' (under the subheading 
        ``legislative branch emergency response fund (including transfer 
        of funds)'' under the heading ``JOINT ITEMS'' under the heading 
        ``LEGISLATIVE BRANCH'' under chapter 9 of division B of the 
        Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
        for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the 
        United States Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-117)) from amounts made 
        available in Public Law 107-38;
            (2) $10,000,000 shall be transferred from unobligated funds 
        transferred to ``Capitol Police Board'', ``Capitol Police'', 
        ``General Expenses'' under that subheading (relating to the 
        Legislative Branch Emergency Response Fund) from amounts made 
        available in Public Law 107-38; and
            (3) $9,000,000 shall be transferred from unobligated funds 
        appropriated under the subheading ``Capitol Police Buildings and 
        Grounds'' under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' under 
        chapter 8 of title I of the Emergency Wartime Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-11).

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification.>> Funds under subsection (a) shall be 
obligated upon notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House and Senate.

    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on September 30, 
2004.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $370,897,000, of which not 
more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2004, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from collections 
during fiscal year 2004 and shall remain available until expended for 
the development and maintenance of an international legal information 
database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the Library of 
Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount 
by which collections are less than the $6,850,000: Provided further, 
That

[[Page 117 STAT. 1029]]

of the total amount appropriated, $11,546,000 shall remain available 
until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, newspapers, and 
all other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic services 
for the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for the 
purchase, when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special and 
unique materials for additions to the collections: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for the 
Overseas Field Offices: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $905,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
acquisition and partial support for implementation of an Integrated 
Library System (ILS): Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $8,750,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
purpose of teaching educators and librarians how to incorporate the 
Library's digital collections into school curricula and shall be 
transferred to the educational consortium formed to conduct the 
``Adventure of the American Mind'' project as approved by the Library: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, $250,000 shall remain 
available until expended, and shall be transferred to the Abraham 
Lincoln Bicentennial Commission for carrying out the purposes of Public 
Law 106-173, of which amount $10,000 may be used for official 
representation and reception expenses of the Abraham Lincoln 
Bicentennial Commission: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $1,380,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2008 
for the acquisition and partial support for implementation of a Central 
Financial Management System: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $11,060,000 shall remain available until expended for 
partial support of the National Audio-Visual Conservation Center: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $2,762,000 
shall remain available until expended for the development and 
maintenance of the Alternate Computer Facility: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Knox College.>> That, of the total amount appropriated, 
$500,000 shall remain available until expended and shall be transferred 
to the Knox College Abraham Lincoln Studies Center for exhibits relating 
to the Lincoln-Douglas Debates and the Underground Railroad and for 
other educational activities of the Center: Provided further, That, of 
the total amount appropriated, $500,000 shall remain available until 
expended and shall be transferred to the Louisiana Department of 
Culture, Recreation and Tourism for activities relating to the Louisiana 
Purchase Bicentennial Celebration.

                            Copyright Office

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $48,290,000, of 
which not more than $23,321,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2004 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any funds 
derived from collections under such section, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $6,343,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2004 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 
802(h), and 1005 of such title:

[[Page 117 STAT. 1030]]

Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $29,664,000: 
Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated 
is available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies: Provided further, That not more than $4,250 
may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for 
activities of the International Copyright Institute and for copyright 
delegations, visitors, and seminars.

                     Congressional Research Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$91,726,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $51,706,000, of which 
$14,812,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1201. Incentive Awards Program. Of the amounts appropriated to 
the Library of Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for the 
incentive awards program.
    Sec. 1202. Reimbursable and Revolving Fund Activities. (a) In 
General.--For fiscal year 2004, the obligational authority of the 
Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) may 
not exceed $105,589,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2004, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' under the subheading ``--Salaries 
and Expenses'' to the revolving fund for

[[Page 117 STAT. 1031]]

the FEDLINK Program and the Federal Research Program established under 
section 103 of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act 
of 2000 (Public Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total 
amount of such transfers may not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, 
That the appropriate revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library 
for any amounts transferred to it before the period of availability of 
the Library appropriation expires.
    Sec. 1203. National Audiovisual Conservation Center. (a) 
Acquisition.--Section (1)(a) of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
acquisition of certain real property for the Library of Congress, and 
for other purposes'' (2 U.S.C. 141 note; Public Law 105-144) is amended 
by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Three parcels totaling approximately 45 acres, more or 
        less, located in Culpeper County, Virginia, and identified as 
        Culpeper County Tax Parcel Numbers 51-80B, 51-80C, and 51-80D, 
        further described as real estate (consisting of 40.949 acres) 
        conveyed to David and Lucile Packard Foundation by deed from 
        Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, dated May 15, 1998, and 
        recorded May 19, 1998, in the Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of 
        Culpeper County, Virginia, in Deed Book 644, page 372; and real 
        estate (consisting of 4.181 acres) conveyed to Packard 
        Humanities Institute by deed from Russell H. Inskeep, dated 
        February 13, 2002, and recorded February 13, 2002, in the 
        Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of Culpeper County, Virginia, as 
        instrument number 020001299.''.

    (b) Library Buildings and Grounds.--Section 11(d) of the Act 
entitled ``An Act relating the policing of the buildings of the Library 
of Congress'', approved August 4, 1950 <<NOTE: 2 USC 167j.>> (2 U.S.C. 
167(j)), is amended by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(1) Three parcels totaling approximately 45 acres, more or 
        less, located in Culpeper County, Virginia, and identified as 
        Culpeper County Tax Parcel Numbers 51-80B, 51-80C, and 51-80D, 
        further described as real estate (consisting of 40.949 acres) 
        conveyed to David and Lucile Packard Foundation by deed from 
        Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, dated May 15, 1998, and 
        recorded May 19, 1998, in the Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of 
        Culpeper County, Virginia, in Deed Book 644, page 372; and real 
        estate (consisting of 4.181 acres) conveyed to Packard 
        Humanities Institute by deed from Russell H. Inskeep, dated 
        February 13, 2002, and recorded February 13, 2002, in the 
        Clerk's Office, Circuit Court of Culpeper County, Virginia, as 
        instrument number 020001299.''.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States Code); 
printing and binding of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and 
distribution of Government publications

[[Page 117 STAT. 1032]]

authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$91,111,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-
year limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code: 
Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this 
account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may 
be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving fund for 
carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $34,456,000: Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations are 
authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial sets and 
other related publications for fiscal years 2002 and 2003 to depository 
and other designated libraries: Provided further, That any unobligated 
or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes 
for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Printing 
Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and Senate.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$10,000,000 for working capital. The Government Printing Office may make 
such expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord 
with the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, 
United States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$5,000 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection

[[Page 117 STAT. 1033]]

with official representation and reception expenses: Provided further, 
That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of 
not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, That 
expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory councils 
to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall be available for temporary or intermittent services 
under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund and the funds 
provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of Documents'' 
and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available for the 
full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,189 workyears (or such 
other number of workyears as the Public Printer may request, subject to 
the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate): Provided further, That activities financed 
through the revolving fund may provide information in any format.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1301. Pay of Public Printer and Deputy Public Printer. (a) In 
General.--Section 303 of title 44, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 303. PUBLIC PRINTER AND DEPUTY PUBLIC PRINTER: PAY.

    ``The annual rate of pay for the Public Printer shall be a rate 
which is equal to the rate for level II of the Executive Schedule under 
subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5. The annual rate of pay for the 
Deputy Public Printer shall be a rate which is equal to the rate for 
level III of such Executive Schedule.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 44 USC 303 note.>> Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first 
applicable pay period beginning on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

    Sec. 1302. Surplus Property, Acceptance of Gifts, and Voluntary 
Services. (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by adding after section 317 the following:

``Sec. 318. Transfer of surplus property; acceptance of voluntary 
                        services

    ``(a) The Public Printer may--
            ``(1) transfer or donate surplus Government publications and 
        condemned Government Printing Office machinery, material, 
        equipment, and supplies to--
                    ``(A) other Federal entities;
                    ``(B) any organization described under section 
                501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
                and exempt from taxation under 501(a) of such Code; or
                    ``(C) State or local governments; and
            ``(2) accept voluntary and uncompensated services, 
        notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31.

    ``(b) Individuals providing voluntary and uncompensated services 
under subsection (a)(2) shall not be considered Federal employees, 
except for purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 (relating

[[Page 117 STAT. 1034]]

to compensation for work injuries) and chapter 171 of title 28 (relating 
to tort claims).''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 3 of title 44, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 317 the following:

``318. Transfer of surplus property; acceptance of voluntary 
           services.''.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
section 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by the 
Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters in 
foreign countries, $460,322,000: Provided, That not more than $4,806,200 
of payments received under section 782 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available for use in fiscal year 2004: Provided further, That 
not more than $1,200,000 of reimbursements received under section 9105 
of title 31, United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal 
year 2004: Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations 
for administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by the 
respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may 
be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, 
including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the 
International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 1401. <<NOTE: 31 USC 3523 note.>> Payment for Audits. (a) In 
General.--At any time during fiscal year 2004 or thereafter, the 
Comptroller General may accept payment from the Securities and Exchange 
Commission for the performance of any audit of the financial statements 
of the Commission which is conducted by the Comptroller General.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1035]]

    (b) Credit to Account.--Any payment accepted under the authority of 
subsection (a) shall be credited to the account established for salaries 
and expenses of the General Accounting Office, and shall be available 
for obligation and expenditure upon receipt.

         PAYMENT TO THE OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center, $13,500,000.

                      TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Maintenance and Care of Private Vehicles. No part of the 
funds appropriated in this Act shall be used for the maintenance or care 
of private vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning as may 
be provided under regulations relating to parking facilities for the 
House of Representatives issued by the Committee on House Administration 
and for the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 202. Fiscal Year Limitation. No part of the funds appropriated 
in this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 
2004 unless expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 203. Rates of Compensation and Designation. Whenever in this 
Act any office or position not specifically established by the 
Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 32 et seq.) is appropriated for or 
the rate of compensation or designation of any office or position 
appropriated for is different from that specifically established by such 
Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in this Act shall be 
the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That the provisions in 
this Act for the various items of official expenses of Members, 
officers, and committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and 
clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives 
shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> Consulting 
Services. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for any 
consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts where 
such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or under 
existing Executive order issued under existing law.

    Sec. 205. Awards and Settlements. Such sums as may be necessary are 
appropriated to the account described in subsection (a) of section 415 
of the Congressional Accountability Act (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay awards 
and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 206. Costs of LBFMC. Amounts available for administrative 
expenses of any legislative branch entity which participates in the 
Legislative Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by 
charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate 
share of LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total 
LBFMC costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch 
entities (in such allocations among the entities as the entities may 
determine) may not exceed $2,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1036]]

    Sec. 207. The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets and sidewalks, in the irregular 
shaped grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, 
Second Street SW on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning 
of the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.
    Sec. 208. None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 209. Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board. During fiscal 
year 2004 and any succeeding fiscal year, any entity in the legislative 
branch which is a member of the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory 
Board may use funds made available to the entity for the fiscal year to 
finance an appropriate share of the costs of the Board for the year.

  TITLE III--FISCAL <<NOTE: Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2003.>> YEAR 2003 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL

                                CHAPTER 1

                              THE JUDICIARY

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $12,187,000, 
to remain available until expended, for costs associated with judgeships 
            authorized by section 312 of Public Law 107-273.

    For an additional amount for ``Defender Services'', $17,228,000, to 
                    remain available until expended.

    For an additional amount for ``Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', 
$2,778,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 2

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         Department of the Army

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', for emergency expenses due to flood control, hurricane, 
and shore protection activities, as authorized by section 5 of the

[[Page 117 STAT. 1037]]

Flood Control Act of August 16, 1941, as amended (33 U.S.C. 701n), 
$60,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 3

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

                             Disaster Relief

    For an additional amount for ``Disaster Relief'' for necessary 
expenses in carrying out the functions of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$441,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 4

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

    For an additional amount to repay advances from other appropriations 
transferred for wildfire suppression and emergency rehabilitation 
activities of the Department of the Interior, $36,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

    For an additional amount for ``Resource Management'' for Midway 
Atoll National Wildlife Refuge, $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $4,500,000 is for oil spill cleanup activities, and 
of which $500,000 is for airfield operations.

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

    For an additional amount to repay advances from other appropriations 
from which funds were transferred for wildfire suppression, and for 
mitigation and emergency rehabilitation activities of the Forest 
Service, $283,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of the funds provided, $10,000,000 is for hazardous fuels reduction 
and hazard mitigation in southern California and $20,000,000 is for 
State and volunteer fire assistance in southern California: Provided 
further, That $20,000,000 of funds made available in the previous 
proviso shall be transferred to the ``State and Private Forestry'' 
account to fund hazard mitigation, fuels reduction and forest health 
protection and mitigation activities on State and private lands in 
southern California.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1038]]

                                CHAPTER 5

              NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

                           Human Space Flight

    For an additional amount for ``Human Space Flight'' to cover 
necessary expenses for responding to the Space Shuttle Columbia 
accident, $50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 6

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 3601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 3602. The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $9,700,000 of the 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, to remain available until 
expended, to provide assistance under the tree assistance program, 
subtitle C of title X of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
2002 (7 U.S.C. 8201 et seq.), to compensate eligible orchardists (as 
defined in section 10201 of such Act) for tree losses incurred since 
January 1, 2000, due to fire blight in the State of Michigan.
    Sec. 3603. The Secretary of Agriculture shall use $20,000,000 of the 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation, to remain available until 
expended, for the suppression and control of the Mormon cricket 
infestation on public and private land in Nevada, Utah, and Idaho, that 
amount to be expended in equal amounts among the 3 States.
    Sec. 3604. The statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying H.R. 4577 (Public Law 106-554; House Report 106-
1033), in chapter 13 of division A of the explanatory language on H.R. 
5666 (Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001), in the matter under the 
heading ``Community Development Fund'', is deemed to be amended with 
respect to the amount made available to the City of Paso Robles, 
California by striking ``for the Oak Parks Housing Project for 
modernization and rehabilitation projects'' and inserting ``for 
construction of a senior citizen project''.
    Sec. 3605. The referenced statement of the managers under the 
heading ``Community development fund'' in title II of Division K of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (Public Law 108-7; House 
Report 108-10) is deemed to be amended with respect to item number 526 
by striking ``for an economic development study for the revitalization 
of Westchester'' and inserting ``for the reconstruction of renaissance 
plaza at Maine and Mamaroneck in downtown White Plains''.
    Sec. 3606. Notwithstanding the first paragraph of the item in title 
II of Division K of the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003 
(Public Law 108-7) relating to ``Federal Housing Administration, General 
and special risk program account'', during fiscal year 2003, commitments 
to guarantee loans to carry out the purposes of sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act shall not exceed a loan principal of 
$25,000,000,000.
    Sec. 3607. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds awarded 
under a grant to the San Diego Workforce Partnership

[[Page 117 STAT. 1039]]

on June 30, 2001, pursuant to section 173 of the Workforce Investment 
Act (29 U.S.C. 2918), may be used to provide services to spouses of 
members of the Armed Forces.
    Sec. 3608. The matter under the heading ``Department of Health and 
Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Health 
Resources and Services'' in division G of Public Law 108-7, as amended 
by chapter 5 of title II of Public Law 108-11, <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
594.>> is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``$296,638,000'' and inserting 
        ``$296,238,000'' preceding the first proviso; and
            (2) by inserting after ``$1,000,000 is available for the 
        Geisinger Health System, Harrisburg, PA, to establish centers of 
        excellence for the treatment of autism'' the following: ``, 
        $400,000 is available for the Muskegon Community Health Project, 
        Muskegon, Michigan for the Access Health insurance program,''.

    Sec. 3609. The matter under the heading ``Department of Health and 
Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Health 
Resources and Services'', in Division G of Public Law 108-7, as amended 
by chapter 5 of title II of Public Law 108-11, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``Venago County Area Vo-tech, Oil City, PA'' 
        and inserting ``Victim Resource Center, Inc., of Pennsylvania'' 
        in lieu thereof;
            (2) by striking ``$115,900,000 is available'' and inserting 
        ``$116,650,000 is available''; and
            (3) by inserting after ``health services to at-risk children 
        in day care'' the following: ``, $350,000 is available for the 
        Phoenix Children's Health Project in Arizona to address the 
        health needs of extremely vulnerable homeless and runaway youth 
        in underserved rural and urban areas, $200,000 is available for 
        the Pittsburgh Mercy Health System, Pittsburgh, PA, for health 
        outreach and education, $200,000 is available for the University 
        of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, for 
        its minority outreach oral health initiative,''.

    Sec. 3610. (a) The matter under the heading ``Department of 
Education, Special Education'', in Public Law 108-7 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
328.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$10,095,639,000'' and inserting 
        ``$10,095,139,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``$7,715,000'' and inserting ``$7,215,000''.

    (b) In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-10), in the 
matter in title III of Division G, relating to research and innovation 
under the heading ``Special Education'', the provision specifying 
$500,000 for the Ohio Alliance of Community Center for the Deaf, 
Worthington, Ohio, for Ohio Deaf Assistive Services Model project shall 
be deleted.
    Sec. 3611. (a) The matter under the heading ``Department of 
Education, Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research'', in Public 
Law 108-7 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 329.>> is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$2,956,382,000'' and inserting 
        ``$2,956,882,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``$3,540,000'' and inserting ``$4,040,000''.

    (b) In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-10), in the 
matter in title III of Division G, relating

[[Page 117 STAT. 1040]]

to vocational rehabilitation demonstration and training under the 
heading ``Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research'', a provision 
shall be added that reads: ``Ohio Alliance of Community Center for the 
Deaf, Worthington, Ohio, for Ohio Deaf Assistive Services Model project, 
$500,000''.
    Sec. 3612. In the statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-
10), in the matter in title III of Division G, relating to the Fund for 
the Improvement of Postsecondary Education under the heading ``Higher 
Education'', the provision specifying $1,000,000 for the Southern 
Illinois University, Carbondale, IL, for the Paul Simon Public Policy 
Institute shall be deemed to read: ``Southern Illinois University, 
Carbondale, IL, for the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute, including an 
endowment, $1,000,000''.
    Sec. 3613. In the statement of the managers of the committee of 
conference accompanying H.J. Res. 2 (Public Law 108-7; House Report 108-
10), in the matter in title III of Division G, relating to the Fund for 
the Improvement of Postsecondary Education under the heading ``Higher 
Education'', the provision specifying $275,000 for the Spoon River 
College, Canton, IL, for equipment for community technology centers in 
Canton and Macomb, Illinois shall be deemed to read: ``Spoon River 
College, Canton, IL, for community technology centers in Canton and 
Macomb, Illinois, $275,000''.
    Sec. 3614. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the 
period from September 1 through September 30, 2003, the Secretary of 
Education shall transfer to the Education for the Disadvantaged account 
an amount not to exceed $4,353,368 from amounts that would otherwise 
lapse at the end of fiscal year 2003 and that were originally made 
available under the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2003 or 
any Department of Education Appropriations Act for a previous fiscal 
year: Provided, That the funds transferred to the Education for the 
Disadvantaged account shall be obligated by September 30, 
2003: <<NOTE: Notification.>> Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
any such transfer: Provided further, That any amounts transferred to the 
Education for the Disadvantaged account pursuant to this paragraph shall 
be for carrying out subpart 2 of part A of title I of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, and shall be allocated, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, only to those States that received funds 
under that subpart for fiscal year 2003 that were less than those States 
received under that subpart for fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Education shall use these additional funds to increase 
those States' allocations under that subpart up to the amount they 
received under that subpart for fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That 
each such State shall use the funds appropriated under this paragraph to 
ratably increase the amount of funds for each eligible local educational 
agency in the State that received less under that subpart in fiscal year 
2003 than it received under that subpart in fiscal year 2002: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall not take into account the funds made 
available under this paragraph in determining State allocations under 
any other program administered by the Secretary in any fiscal year.

    Sec. 3615. Funds made available under the heading, ``Special 
Benefits for Disabled Coal Miners'' in Division G of Public Law

[[Page 117 STAT. 1041]]

108-7, shall be subject to the provisions of Public Law 107-275, 
notwithstanding section 514 of such Division G.
    Sec. 3616. The amounts provided or made available by this title are 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 502 of H. Con. Res. 95 (108th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2004.
    Sec. 3617. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This title shall be effective 
immediately upon the enactment of this Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2003''.

                          TITLE IV--REFERENCES

    Sec. 4001. Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in titles I and II of this Act shall be treated 
as referring only to the provisions of such titles, and any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in title III of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of such title.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2004''.

    Approved September 30, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2657 (S. 1383):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 108-186 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 108-279 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-88 accompanying S. 1383 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            July 9, considered and passed House.
            July 10, 11, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 24, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 39 (2003):
            Sept. 30, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>