[108th Congress Public Law 75]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ075.108]

[[Page 897]]

              MOSQUITO ABATEMENT FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT

[[Page 117 STAT. 898]]

Public Law 108-75
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To authorize grants through the Centers for Disease Control and 
   Prevention for mosquito control programs to prevent mosquito-borne 
 diseases, <<NOTE: Aug. 15, 2003 -  [S. 1015]>> and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Mosquito Abatement for 
Safety and Health Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mosquito Abatement for Safety and 
Health Act''.
SEC. 2. GRANTS REGARDING PREVENTION OF MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES.

    Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 243 
et seq.), as amended by section 4 of Public Law 107-84 and section 312 
of Public Law 107-188, is amended--
            (1) by transferring section 317R <<NOTE: 42 USC 247b-20.>>  
        from the current placement of the section and inserting the 
        section after section 317Q; and
            (2) by inserting after section 317R (as so transferred) the 
        following:

``SEC. 317S. <<NOTE: 42 USC 247b-21.>> MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES; 
            COORDINATION GRANTS TO STATES; ASSESSMENT AND CONTROL GRANTS 
            TO POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.

    ``(a) Coordination Grants to States; Assessment Grants to Political 
Subdivisions.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to mosquito control programs 
        to prevent and control mosquito-borne diseases (referred to in 
        this section as `control programs'), the Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention, may make grants to States for the purpose of--
                    ``(A) coordinating control programs in the State 
                involved; and
                    ``(B) assisting such State in making grants to 
                political subdivisions of the State to conduct 
                assessments to determine the immediate needs in such 
                subdivisions for control programs, and to develop, on 
                the basis of such assessments, plans for carrying out 
                control programs in the subdivisions.
            ``(2) Preference in making grants.--In making grants under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to States 
        that have one or more political subdivisions with an incidence, 
        prevalence, or high risk of mosquito-borne disease, or a 
        population of infected mosquitoes, that is substantial relative 
        to political subdivisions in other States.

[[Page 117 STAT. 899]]

            ``(3) Certain requirements.--A grant may be made under 
        paragraph (1) only if--
                    ``(A) the State involved has developed, or agrees to 
                develop, a plan for coordinating control programs in the 
                State, and the plan takes into account any assessments 
                or plans described in subsection (b)(3) that have been 
                conducted or developed, respectively, by political 
                subdivisions in the State;
                    ``(B) in developing such plan, the State consulted 
                or will consult (as the case may be under subparagraph 
                (A)) with political subdivisions in the State that are 
                carrying out or planning to carry out control programs;
                    ``(C) the State agrees to monitor control programs 
                in the State in order to ensure that the programs are 
                carried out in accordance with such plan, with priority 
                given to coordination of control programs in political 
                subdivisions described in paragraph (2) that are 
                contiguous;
                    ``(D) the State agrees that the State will make 
                grants to political subdivisions as described in 
                paragraph (1)(B), and that such a grant will not exceed 
                $10,000; and
                    ``(E) the State agrees that the grant will be used 
                to supplement, and not supplant, State and local funds 
                available for the purpose described in paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Reports to secretary.--A grant may be made under 
        paragraph (1) only if the State involved agrees that, promptly 
        after the end of the fiscal year for which the grant is made, 
        the State will submit to the Secretary a report that--
                    ``(A) describes the activities of the State under 
                the grant; and
                    ``(B) contains an evaluation of whether the control 
                programs of political subdivisions in the State were 
                effectively coordinated with each other, which 
                evaluation takes into account any reports that the State 
                received under subsection (b)(5) from such subdivisions.
            ``(5) Number of grants.--A State may not receive more than 
        one grant under paragraph (1).

    ``(b) Prevention and Control Grants to Political Subdivisions.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may 
        make grants to political subdivisions of States or consortia of 
        political subdivisions of States, for the operation of control 
        programs.
            ``(2) Preference in making grants.--In making grants under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to a 
        political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions 
        that--
                    ``(A) has--
                          ``(i) a history of elevated incidence or 
                      prevalence of mosquito-borne disease;
                          ``(ii) a population of infected mosquitoes; or
                          ``(iii) met criteria determined by the 
                      Secretary to suggest an increased risk of elevated 
                      incidence or prevalence of mosquito-borne disease 
                      in the pending fiscal year;
                    ``(B) demonstrates to the Secretary that such 
                political subdivision or consortium of political 
                subdivisions will, if

[[Page 117 STAT. 900]]

                appropriate to the mosquito circumstances involved, 
                effectively coordinate the activities of the control 
                programs with contiguous political subdivisions;
                    ``(C) demonstrates to the Secretary (directly or 
                through State officials) that the State in which such a 
                political subdivision or consortium of political 
                subdivisions is located has identified or will identify 
                geographic areas in such State that have a significant 
                need for control programs and will effectively 
                coordinate such programs in such areas; and
                    ``(D) is located in a State that has received a 
                grant under subsection (a).
            ``(3) Requirement of assessment and plan.--A grant may be 
        made under paragraph (1) only if the political subdivision or 
        consortium of political subdivisions involved--
                    ``(A) has conducted an assessment to determine the 
                immediate needs in such subdivision or consortium for a 
                control program, including an entomological survey of 
                potential mosquito breeding areas; and
                    ``(B) has, on the basis of such assessment, 
                developed a plan for carrying out such a program.
            ``(4) Requirement of matching funds.--
                    ``(A) In general.--With respect to the costs of a 
                control program to be carried out under paragraph (1) by 
                a political subdivision or consortium of political 
                subdivisions, a grant under such paragraph may be made 
                only if the subdivision or consortium agrees to make 
                available (directly or through donations from public or 
                private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such 
                costs in an amount that is not less than \1/3\ of such 
                costs ($1 for each $2 of Federal funds provided in the 
                grant).
                    ``(B) Determination of amount contributed.--Non-
                Federal contributions required in subparagraph (A) may 
                be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including 
                plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the 
                Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized 
                to any significant extent by the Federal Government, may 
                not be included in determining the amount of such non-
                Federal contributions.
                    ``(C) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the 
                requirement established in subparagraph (A) if the 
                Secretary determines that extraordinary economic 
                conditions in the political subdivision or consortium of 
                political subdivisions involved justify the waiver.
            ``(5) Reports to secretary.--A grant may be made under 
        paragraph (1) only if the political subdivision or consortium of 
        political subdivisions involved agrees that, promptly after the 
        end of the fiscal year for which the grant is made, the 
        subdivision or consortium will submit to the Secretary, and to 
        the State within which the subdivision or consortium is located, 
        a report that describes the control program and contains an 
        evaluation of whether the program was effective.
            ``(6) Amount of grant; number of grants.--
                    ``(A) Amount of grant.--
                          ``(i) Single political subdivision.--A grant 
                      under paragraph (1) awarded to a political 
                      subdivision for a fiscal year may not exceed 
                      $100,000.

[[Page 117 STAT. 901]]

                          ``(ii) Consortium.--A grant under paragraph 
                      (1) awarded to a consortium of 2 or more political 
                      subdivisions may not exceed $110,000 for each 
                      political subdivision. A consortium is not 
                      required to provide matching funds under paragraph 
                      (4) for any amounts received by such consortium in 
                      excess of amounts each political subdivision would 
                      have received separately.
                          ``(iii) Waiver of requirement.--A grant may 
                      exceed the maximum amount in clause (i) or (ii) if 
                      the Secretary determines that the geographical 
                      area covered by a political subdivision or 
                      consortium awarded a grant under paragraph (1) has 
                      an extreme need due to the size or density of--
                                    ``(I) the human population in such 
                                geographical area; or
                                    ``(II) the mosquito population in 
                                such geographical area.
                    ``(B) Number of grants.--A political subdivision or 
                a consortium of political subdivisions may not receive 
                more than one grant under paragraph (1).

    ``(c) Applications for Grants.--A grant may be made under subsection 
(a) or (b) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the 
Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, 
and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the 
Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(d) Technical Assistance.--Amounts appropriated under subsection 
(f) may be used by the Secretary to provide training and technical 
assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of 
assessments and plans under subsection (a) and control programs under 
subsection (b). The Secretary may provide such technical assistance 
directly or through awards of grants or contracts to public and private 
entities.
    ``(e) Definition of Political Subdivision.--In this section, the 
term `political subdivision' means the local political jurisdiction 
immediately below the level of State government, including counties, 
parishes, and boroughs. If State law recognizes an entity of general 
government that functions in lieu of, and is not within, a county, 
parish, or borough, the Secretary may recognize an area under the 
jurisdiction of such other entities of general government as a political 
subdivision for purposes of this section.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--For the purpose of carrying out this 
        section, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2003, and such sums as may be necessary for each 
        of fiscal years 2004 through 2007.
            ``(2) Public health emergencies.--In the case of control 
        programs carried out in response to a mosquito-borne disease 
        that constitutes a public health emergency, the authorization of 
        appropriations under paragraph (1) is in addition to applicable 
        authorizations of appropriations under the Public Health 
        Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002.
            ``(3) Fiscal year 2004 appropriations.--For fiscal year 
        2004, 50 percent or more of the funds appropriated under

[[Page 117 STAT. 902]]

        paragraph (1) shall be used to award grants to political 
        subdivisions or consortia of political subdivisions under 
        subsection (b).''.
SEC. 3. RESEARCH PROGRAM OF NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL 
                    HEALTH SCIENCES.

    Subpart 12 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 
section:

     ``methods of controlling certain insect and vermin populations

    ``Sec. 463B. <<NOTE: 42 USC 285l-6.>> The Director of the Institute 
shall conduct or support research to identify or develop methods of 
controlling insect and vermin populations that transmit to humans 
diseases that have significant adverse health consequences.''.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> REPORT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, after consultation with the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a 
report containing the following:
            (1) <<NOTE: West Nile Virus.>> A description of the status 
        of the development of protocols for ensuring the safety of the 
        blood supply of the United States with respect to West Nile 
        Virus, including--
                    (A) the status of the development of screening 
                mechanisms;
                    (B) changes in donor screening protocols; and
                    (C) the implementation of surveillance systems for 
                the transmission of the virus via the blood supply.
            (2) Recommendations for improvements to be made to the 
        safety of the blood supply based on the development of protocols 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), including the need for expedited 
        review of screening mechanisms or other protocols.
            (3) The benefits and risks of the spraying of insecticides 
        as a public health intervention, including recommendations and 
        guidelines for such spraying.

[[Page 117 STAT. 903]]

            (4) The overall role of public health pesticides and the 
        development of standards for the use of such pesticides compared 
        to the standards when such pesticides are used for agricultural 
        purposes.

    Approved August 15, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1015 (H.R. 342):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-12 accompanying H.R. 342 (Comm. on Energy and 
Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-69 (Comm. on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            June 16, considered and passed Senate.
            July 25, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>