[108th Congress Public Law 93]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ093.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1161]]

Public Law 108-93
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource 
study to determine the national significance of the Miami Circle site in 
 the State of Florida as well as the suitability and feasibility of its 
inclusion in the National Park System as part of Biscayne National Park, 
       and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 3, 2003 -  [S. 111]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 3 years after the date funds are made 
available, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the 
``Secretary'') shall conduct a special resource study to determine the 
national significance of the Miami Circle archaeological site in Miami-
Dade County, Florida (hereinafter referred to as ``Miami Circle''), as 
well as the suitability and feasibility of its inclusion in the National 
Park System as part of the Biscayne National Park. <<NOTE: Native 
Americans.>> In conducting the study, the Secretary shall consult with 
the appropriate American Indian tribes and other interested groups and 
organizations.

    (b) Content of Study.--In addition to determining national 
significance, feasibility, and suitability, the study shall include the 
analysis and recommendations of the Secretary on--
            (1) any areas in or surrounding the Miami Circle that should 
        be included in Biscayne National Park;
            (2) whether additional staff, facilities, or other resources 
        would be necessary to administer the Miami Circle as a unit of 
        Biscayne National Park; and
            (3) any effect on the local area from the inclusion of Miami 
        Circle in Biscayne National Park.

    (c) Submission of Report.--Not later than 30 days after completion 
of the study, the Secretary shall submit a report on the findings and 
recommendations of the study to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United 
States House of Representatives.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1162]]

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved October 3, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 111:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-268 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-4 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Mar. 4, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 23, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>