[108th Congress Public Law 332]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ332.108]

[[Page 1281]]

                 GLOBAL ANTI-SEMITISM REVIEW ACT OF 2004

[[Page 118 STAT. 1282]]

Public Law 108-332
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
        To require a report on acts of anti-Semitism around the 
              world. <<NOTE: Oct. 16, 2004 -  [S. 2292]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Global Anti-
Semitism Review Act of 2004. 22 USC 2651 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 
2004''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2731 note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Acts of anti-Semitism in countries throughout the world, 
        including some of the world's strongest democracies, have 
        increased significantly in frequency and scope over the last 
        several years.
            (2) During the last 3 months of 2003 and the first 3 months 
        of 2004, there were numerous instances of anti-Semitic violence 
        around the world, including the following incidents:
                    (A) <<NOTE: Mahatir Mohammad.>> In Putrajaya, 
                Malaysia, on October 16, 2003, former Prime Minister 
                Mahatir Mohammad told the 57 national leaders assembled 
                for the Organization of the Islamic Conference that Jews 
                ``rule the world by proxy'', and called for a ``final 
                victory'' by the world's 1.3 billion Muslims, who, he 
                said, ``cannot be defeated by a few million Jews.''.
                    (B) In Istanbul, Turkey, on November 15, 2003, 
                simultaneous car bombs exploded outside two synagogues 
                filled with worshippers, killing 24 people and wounding 
                more than 250 people.
                    (C) In Australia on January 5, 2004, poison was used 
                to ignite, and burn anti-Semitic slogans into, the lawns 
                of the Parliament House in the state of Tasmania.
                    (D) In St. Petersburg, Russia, on February 15, 2004, 
                vandals desecrated approximately 50 gravestones in a 
                Jewish cemetery, painting the stones with swastikas and 
                anti-Semitic graffiti.
                    (E) In Toronto, Canada, over the weekend of March 19 
                through March 21, 2004, vandals attacked a Jewish 
                school, a Jewish cemetery, and area synagogues, painting 
                swastikas and anti-Semitic slogans on the walls of a 
                synagogue and on residential property in a nearby, 
                predominantly Jewish, neighborhood.
                    (F) In Toulon, France, on March 23, 2004, a Jewish 
                synagogue and community center were set on fire.
            (3) Anti-Semitism in old and new forms is also increasingly 
        emanating from the Arab and Muslim world on a sustained

[[Page 118 STAT. 1283]]

        basis, including through books published by government-owned 
        publishing houses in Egypt and other Arab countries.
            (4) In November 2002, state-run television in Egypt 
        broadcast the anti-Semitic series entitled ``Horseman Without a 
        Horse'', which is based upon the fictitious conspiracy theory 
        known as the Protocols of the Elders of Zion. The Protocols have 
        been used throughout the last century by despots such as Adolf 
        Hitler to justify violence against Jews.
            (5) In November 2003, Arab television featured an anti-
        Semitic series, entitled ``Ash-Shatat'' (or ``The Diaspora''), 
        which depicts Jewish people hatching a plot for Jewish control 
        of the world.
            (6) The sharp rise in anti-Semitic violence has caused 
        international organizations such as the Organization for 
        Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to elevate, and bring 
        renewed focus to, the issue, including the convening by the OSCE 
        in June 2003 of a conference in Vienna dedicated solely to the 
        issue of anti-Semitism.
            (7) <<NOTE: Ed Koch.>> The OSCE convened a conference again 
        on April 28-29, 2004, in Berlin, to address the problem of anti-
        Semitism with the United States delegation led by former Mayor 
        of New York City, Ed Koch.
            (8) The United States Government has strongly supported 
        efforts to address anti-Semitism through bilateral relationships 
        and interaction with international organizations such as the 
        OSCE, the European Union, and the United Nations.
            (9) Congress has consistently supported efforts to address 
        the rise in anti-Semitic violence. During the 107th Congress, 
        both the Senate and the House of Representatives passed 
        resolutions expressing strong concern with the sharp escalation 
        of anti-Semitic violence in Europe and calling on the Department 
        of State to thoroughly document the phenomenon.
            (10) Anti-Semitism has at times taken the form of 
        vilification of Zionism, the Jewish national movement, and 
        incitement against Israel.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

     It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States Government should continue to strongly 
        support efforts to combat anti-Semitism worldwide through 
        bilateral relationships and interaction with international 
        organizations such as the OSCE, the European Union, and the 
        United Nations; and
            (2) the Department of State should thoroughly document acts 
        of anti-Semitism that occur around the world.

SEC. 4. REPORTS.

    Not later than November 15, 2004, the Secretary of State shall 
submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives a 
one-time report on acts of anti-Semitism around the world, including a 
description of--
            (1) acts of physical violence against, or harassment
        of, Jewish people, and acts of violence against, or vandalism 
        of, Jewish community institutions, such as schools, synagogues, 
        or cemeteries, that occurred in each country;
            (2) the responses of the governments of those countries to 
        such actions;

[[Page 118 STAT. 1284]]

            (3) the actions taken by such governments to enact and 
        enforce laws relating to the protection of the right to 
        religious freedom of Jewish people;
            (4) the efforts by such governments to promote anti-bias and 
        tolerance education; and
            (5) instances of propaganda in government and nongovernment 
        media that attempt to justify or promote racial hatred or incite 
        acts of violence against Jewish people.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE TO MONITOR AND 
                    COMBAT ANTI-SEMITISM.

    The State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is amended by 
adding after section 58 (22 U.S.C. 2730) the following new section:

``SEC. 59. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2731.>> MONITORING AND COMBATING ANTI-
            SEMITISM.

    ``(a) Office To Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism.--
            ``(1) Establishment of office.--The Secretary shall 
        establish within the Department of State an Office to Monitor 
        and Combat anti-Semitism (in this section referred to as the 
        `Office').
            ``(2) Head of office.--
                    ``(A) Special envoy for monitoring and combating 
                anti-semitism.--The head of the Office shall be the 
                Special Envoy for Monitoring and Combating anti-Semitism 
                (in this section referred to as the `Special Envoy').
                    ``(B) Appointment of head of office.--The Secretary 
                shall appoint the Special Envoy. If the Secretary 
                determines that such is appropriate, the Secretary may 
                appoint the Special Envoy from among officers and 
                employees of the Department. The Secretary may allow 
                such officer or employee to retain the position (and the 
                responsibilities associated with such position) held by 
                such officer or employee prior to the appointment of 
                such officer or employee to the position of Special 
                Envoy under this paragraph.

    ``(b) Purpose of Office.--Upon establishment, the Office shall 
assume the primary responsibility for--
            ``(1) monitoring and combating acts of anti-Semitism and 
        anti-Semitic incitement that occur in foreign countries;
            ``(2) coordinating and assisting in the preparation of that 
        portion of the report required by sections 116(d)(7) and 502B(b) 
        of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d)(7) and 
        2304(b)) relating to an assessment and description of the nature 
        and extent of acts of anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic incitement 
        for inclusion in the annual Country Reports on Human Rights 
        Practices; and
            ``(3) coordinating and assisting in the preparation of that 
        portion of the report required by section 102(b)(1)(A)(iv) of 
        the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 
        6412(b)(1)(A)(iv)) relating to an assessment and description of 
        the nature and extent of acts of anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic 
        incitement for inclusion in the Annual Report on International 
        Religious Freedom.

    ``(c) Consultations.--The Special Envoy shall consult with domestic 
and international nongovernmental organizations and multilateral 
organizations and institutions, as the Special Envoy considers 
appropriate to fulfill the purposes of this section.''.

[[Page 118 STAT. 1285]]

SEC. 6. INCLUSION IN DEPARTMENT OF STATE ANNUAL REPORTS OF 
                    INFORMATION CONCERNING ACTS OF ANTI-SEMITISM 
                    IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Inclusion in Country Reports on Human Rights Practices.--The 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 116(d) (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d))--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (8), (9), and (10), 
                as paragraphs (9), (10), and (11), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(8) wherever applicable, a description of the nature and 
        extent of acts of anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic incitement that 
        occur during the preceding year, including descriptions of--
                    ``(A) acts of physical violence against, or 
                harassment of Jewish people, and acts of violence 
                against, or vandalism of Jewish community institutions, 
                including schools, synagogues, and cemeteries;
                    ``(B) instances of propaganda in government and 
                nongovernment media that attempt to justify or promote 
                racial hatred or incite acts of violence against Jewish 
                people;
                    ``(C) the actions, if any, taken by the government 
                of the country to respond to such violence and attacks 
                or to eliminate such propaganda or incitement;
                    ``(D) the actions taken by such government to enact 
                and enforce laws relating to the protection of the right 
                to religious freedom of Jewish people; and
                    ``(E) the efforts of such government to promote 
                anti-bias and tolerance education;''; and
            (2) after the fourth sentence of section 502B(b) (22 U.S.C. 
        2304(b)), by inserting the following new sentence: ``Wherever 
        applicable, a description of the nature and extent of acts of 
        anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic incitement that occur, including 
        the descriptions of such acts required under section 
        116(d)(8).''.

    (b) Inclusion in Annual Report on International Religious Freedom.--
Section 102(b)(1)(A) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
(22 U.S.C. 6412(b)(1)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding after clause (iii) the following new clause:
                          ``(iv) wherever applicable, an assessment and 
                      description of the nature and extent of acts of 
                      anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic incitement that 
                      occur in that country during the preceding year, 
                      including--
                                    ``(I) acts of physical violence 
                                against, or harassment of, Jewish 
                                people, acts of violence against, or 
                                vandalism of, Jewish community 
                                institutions, and instances of 
                                propaganda in government and 
                                nongovernment media that incite such 
                                acts; and
                                    ``(II) the actions taken by the 
                                government of that country to respond to 
                                such violence and attacks or to 
                                eliminate such propaganda or incitement, 
                                to enact and enforce laws relating to 
                                the protection of the right to religious 
                                freedom of

[[Page 118 STAT. 1286]]

                                Jewish people, and to promote anti-bias 
                                and tolerance education.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability. 22 USC 2151n note.>> Effective Date of 
Inclusions.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply 
beginning with the first report under sections 116(d) and 502B(b) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d) and 2304(b)) and 
section 102(b) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 
U.S.C. 6312(b)) submitted more than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

    Approved October 16, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2292:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            May 7, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 8, considered and passed House, amended.
            Oct. 10, Senate concurred in House amendments.

                                  <all>