[108th Congress Public Law 210]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ210.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 564]]

Public Law 108-210
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant 
program through June 30, 2004, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 31, 
                          2004 -  [S. 2231]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Welfare Reform Extension 
Act of 2004. 42 USC 1305 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Welfare Reform Extension Act of 
2004''.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES 
                    BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM THROUGH JUNE 30, 2004.

    (a) In General.--Activities authorized by part A of title IV of the 
Social Security Act, and by sections 510, 1108(b), and 1925 of such Act, 
shall continue through June 30, 2004, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2002, notwithstanding section 1902(e)(1)(A) of such Act, and 
out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise 
appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for such purpose. Grants and payments may be made pursuant to 
this authority through the third quarter of fiscal year 2004 at the 
level provided for such activities through the third quarter of fiscal 
year 2002.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 403(a)(3)(H)(ii) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 603(a)(3)(H)(ii)) is amended by striking ``March 
31'' and inserting ``June 30''.
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF THE NATIONAL RANDOM SAMPLE STUDY OF CHILD 
                    WELFARE AND CHILD WELFARE WAIVER AUTHORITY 
                    THROUGH JUNE 30, 2004.

    Activities authorized by sections 429A and 1130(a) of the Social 
Security Act shall continue through June 30, 2004, in the manner 
authorized for fiscal year 2002, and out of any money in the Treasury of 
the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. Grants and 
payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the third 
quarter of fiscal year 2004 at the 


[[Page 118 STAT. 565]]

level provided for such activities through the third quarter of fiscal 
year 2002.

    Approved March 31, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2231:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Mar. 25, considered and passed Senate.
            Mar. 30, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>