[108th Congress Public Law 66]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ066.108]

[[Page 875]]

                         NEW MEXICO TRUST LANDS

[[Page 117 STAT. 876]]

Public Law 108-66
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide that certain Bureau of Land Management land shall be held in 
 trust for the Pueblo of Santa Clara and the Pueblo of San Ildefonso in 
      the State of New Mexico. <<NOTE: July 30, 2003 -  [S. 246]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Native 
Americans.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means the agreement 
        entitled ``Agreement to Affirm Boundary Between Pueblo of Santa 
        Clara and Pueblo of San Ildefonso Aboriginal Lands Within Garcia 
        Canyon Tract'', entered into by the Governors on December 20, 
        2000.
            (2) Boundary line.--The term ``boundary line'' means the 
        boundary line established under section 4(a).
            (3) Governors.--The term ``Governors'' means--
                    (A) the Governor of the Pueblo of Santa Clara, New 
                Mexico; and
                    (B) the Governor of the Pueblo of San Ildefonso, New 
                Mexico.
            (4) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
            (5) Pueblos.--The term ``Pueblos'' means--
                    (A) the Pueblo of Santa Clara, New Mexico; and
                    (B) the Pueblo of San Ildefonso, New Mexico.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) Trust land.--The term ``trust land'' means the land held 
        by the United States in trust under section 2(a) or 3(a).

SEC. 2. TRUST FOR THE PUEBLO OF SANTA CLARA, NEW MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--All right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to the land described in subsection (b), including improvements 
on, appurtenances to, and mineral rights (including rights to oil and 
gas) to the land, shall be held by the United States in trust for the 
Pueblo of Santa Clara, New Mexico, as part of the Santa Clara 
Reservation.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of approximately 2,484 acres of Bureau of Land Management land 
located in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico, and more particularly 
described as--
            (1) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 22, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located north of the boundary line;

[[Page 117 STAT. 877]]

            (2) the southern half of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 23, New 
        Mexico Principal Meridian;
            (3) the southern half of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 24, New 
        Mexico Principal Meridian;
            (4) T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 25, excluding the 5-acre tract 
        in the southeast quarter owned by the Pueblo of San Ildefonso;
            (5) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 26, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located north and east of the 
        boundary line;
            (6) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 27, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located north of the boundary line;
            (7) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 8 E., Sec. 19, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is not included in the Santa Clara 
        Pueblo Grant or the Santa Clara Indian Reservation; and
            (8) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 8 E., Sec. 30, that is not 
        included in the Santa Clara Pueblo Grant or the San Ildefonso 
        Grant.

SEC. 3. TRUST FOR THE PUEBLO OF SAN ILDEFONSO, NEW MEXICO.

    (a) In General.--All right, title, and interest of the United States 
in and to the land described in subsection (b), including improvements 
on, appurtenances to, and mineral rights (including rights to oil and 
gas) to the land, shall be held by the United States in trust for the 
Pueblo of San Ildefonso, New Mexico, as part of the San Ildefonso 
Reservation.
    (b) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
consists of approximately 2,000 acres of Bureau of Land Management land 
located in Rio Arriba County and Santa Fe County in the State of New 
Mexico, and more particularly described as--
            (1) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 22, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located south of the boundary line;
            (2) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 26, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located south and west of the 
        boundary line;
            (3) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 27, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is located south of the boundary line;
            (4) T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 34, New Mexico Principal 
        Meridian; and
            (5) the portion of T. 20 N., R. 7 E., Sec. 35, New Mexico 
        Principal Meridian, that is not included in the San Ildefonso 
        Pueblo Grant.

SEC. 4. SURVEY AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Office of Cadastral Survey of the 
Bureau of Land Management shall, in accordance with the Agreement, 
complete a survey of the boundary line established under the Agreement 
for the purpose of establishing, in accordance with sections 2(b) and 
3(b), the boundaries of the trust land.

    (b) Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> Publication.--
        On approval by the Governors of the survey completed under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal 
        Register--
                    (A) a legal description of the boundary line; and
                    (B) legal descriptions of the trust land.
            (2) Technical corrections.--Before the date on which the 
        legal descriptions are published under paragraph (1)(B),

[[Page 117 STAT. 878]]

        the Secretary may correct any technical errors in the 
        descriptions of the trust land provided in sections 2(b) and 
        3(b) to ensure that the descriptions are consistent with the 
        terms of the Agreement.
            (3) Effect.--Beginning on the date on which the legal 
        descriptions are published under paragraph (1)(B), the legal 
        descriptions shall be the official legal descriptions of the 
        trust land.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION OF TRUST LAND.

    (a) Applicable Law.--The trust land shall be administered in 
accordance with laws generally applicable to property held in trust by 
the United States for Indian tribes.
    (b) Pueblo Lands Act.--The following shall be subject to section 17 
of the Act of June 7, 1924 (25 U.S.C. 331 note; commonly known as the 
``Pueblo Lands Act''):
            (1) The trust land.
            (2) Any land owned as of the date of enactment of this Act 
        or acquired after the date of enactment of this Act by the 
        Pueblo of Santa Clara in the Santa Clara Pueblo Grant.
            (3) Any land owned as of the date of enactment of this Act 
        or acquired after the date of enactment of this Act by the 
        Pueblo of San Ildefonso in the San Ildefonso Pueblo Grant.

    (c) Use of Trust Land.--Subject to criteria developed by the Pueblos 
in concert with the Secretary, the trust land may be used only for 
traditional and customary uses or stewardship conservation for the 
benefit of the Pueblo for which the trust land is held in trust. 
Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the trust land shall not 
be used for any new commercial developments.

SEC. 6. EFFECT.

    Nothing in this Act--
            (1) affects any valid right-of-way, lease, permit, mining 
        claim, grazing permit, water right, or other right or interest 
        of any person or entity (other than the United States) in or to 
        the trust land that is in existence before the date of enactment 
        of this Act;
            (2) enlarges, impairs, or otherwise affects a right or claim 
        of the Pueblos to any land or interest in land based on 
        Aboriginal or Indian title that is in existence before the date 
        of enactment of this Act;

[[Page 117 STAT. 879]]

            (3) constitutes an express or implied reservation of water 
        or water right for any purpose with respect to the trust land; 
        or
            (4) affects any water right of the Pueblos in existence 
        before the date of enactment of this act.

    Approved July 30, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 246:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-60 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            June 16, considered and passed Senate.
            July 16, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>