[108th Congress Public Law 32]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ032.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 779]]

Public Law 108-32
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the expeditious completion of the acquisition of land 
   owned by the State of Wyoming within the boundaries of Grand Teton 
  National Park, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 17, 2003 -  [S. 
                                 273]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Grand Teton National Park 
Land Exchange Act. 16 USC 406d-1 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Grand Teton National Park Land 
Exchange Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 406d-1 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) The term ``Federal lands'' means public lands as defined 
        in section 103(e) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702(e)).
            (2) The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of the State of 
        Wyoming.
            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (4) The term ``State lands'' means lands and interest in 
        lands owned by the State of Wyoming within the boundaries of 
        Grand Teton National Park as identified on a map titled 
        ``Private, State & County Inholdings Grand Teton National 
        Park'', dated March 2001, and numbered GTNP/0001.

SEC. 3. ACQUISITION OF STATE <<NOTE: 16 USC 406d-1 note.>> LANDS.

    (a) The Secretary is authorized to acquire approximately 1,406 acres 
of State lands within the exterior boundaries of Grand Teton National 
Park, as generally depicted on the map referenced in section 2(4), by 
any one or a combination of the following--
            (1) donation;
            (2) purchase with donated or appropriated funds; or
            (3) exchange of Federal lands in the State of Wyoming that 
        are identified for disposal under approved land use plans in 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act under section 202 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712) that are of equal value to the State lands acquired in the 
        exchange.

    (b) <<NOTE: Reports.>> In the event that the Secretary or the 
Governor determines that the Federal lands eligible for exchange under 
subsection (a)(3) are not sufficient or acceptable for the acquisition 
of all the State lands identified in section 2(4), the Secretary shall 
identify other Federal lands or interests therein in the State of 
Wyoming for possible exchange and shall identify such lands or interests 
together

[[Page 117 STAT. 780]]

with their estimated value in a report to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives. Such lands or interests shall 
not be available for exchange unless authorized by an Act of Congress 
enacted after the date of submission of the report.

SEC. 4. VALUATION OF STATE AND FEDERAL <<NOTE: 16 USC 406d-1 
            note.>> INTERESTS.

    (a) Agreement on Appraiser.--If the Secretary and the Governor are 
unable to agree on the value of any Federal lands eligible for exchange 
under section 3(a)(3) or State lands, then the Secretary and the 
Governor may select a qualified appraiser to conduct an appraisal of 
those lands. The purchase or exchange under section 3(a) shall be 
conducted based on the values determined by the appraisal.
    (b) No Agreement on Appraiser.--If the Secretary and the Governor 
are unable to agree on the selection of a qualified appraiser under 
subsection (a), then the Secretary and the Governor shall each designate 
a qualified appraiser. The two designated appraisers shall select a 
qualified third appraiser to conduct the appraisal with the advice and 
assistance of the two designated appraisers. The purchase or exchange 
under section 3(a) shall be conducted based on the values determined by 
the appraisal.
    (c) Appraisal Costs.--The Secretary and the State of Wyoming shall 
each pay one-half of the appraisal costs under subsections (a) and (b).
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION <<NOTE: 16 USC 406d-1 note.>> OF STATE 
                    LANDS ACQUIRED BY THE UNITED STATES.

    The State lands conveyed to the United States under section 3(a) 
shall become part of Grand Teton National Park. The Secretary shall 
manage such lands under the Act of August 25, 1916 (commonly known as 
the ``National Park Service Organic Act''), and other laws, rules, and 
regulations applicable to Grand Teton National Park.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION FOR <<NOTE: 16 USC 406d-1 note.>> APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for the purposes of this Act.

    Approved June 17, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 273:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-14 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Apr. 3, considered and passed Senate.
            June 3, 5, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>