[108th Congress Public Law 367]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ367.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 1743]]

Public Law 108-367
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To expand the boundaries of the Fort Donelson National Battlefield to 
 authorize the acquisition and interpretation of lands associated with 
 the campaign that resulted in the capture of the fort in 1862, and for 
          other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 25, 2004 -  [S. 524]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Fort Donelson National 
Battlefield Expansion Act of 2004. Tennessee. 16 USC 428 
note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fort Donelson National Battlefield 
Expansion Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. FORT DONELSON NATIONAL <<NOTE: 16 USC 428p.>> BATTLEFIELD.

    (a) Designation; Purpose.--There exists as a unit of the National 
Park System the Fort Donelson National Battlefield to commemorate--
            (1) the Battle of Fort Donelson in February 1862; and
            (2) the campaign conducted by General Ulysses S. Grant and 
        Admiral Andrew H. Foote that resulted in the capture of Fort 
        Donelson by Union forces.

    (b) Boundaries.--The boundary of the Fort Donelson National 
Battlefield is revised to include the site of Fort Donelson and 
associated land that has been acquired by the Secretary of the Interior 
for administration by the National Park Service, including Fort Donelson 
National Cemetery, in Stewart County, Tennessee and the site of Fort 
Heiman and associated land in Calloway County, Kentucky, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Fort Donelson National Battlefield 
Boundary Adjustment'' numbered 328/80024, and dated September 2003. The 
map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (c) Expansion of Boundaries.--The Fort Donelson National Battlefield 
shall also include any land acquired pursuant to section 3.
SEC. 3. LAND ACQUISITION RELATED TO FORT DONELSON <<NOTE: 16 USC 
                    428p-1.>> NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD.

    (a) Acquisition Authority.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the 
Secretary of the Interior may acquire land, interests in land, and 
improvements thereon for inclusion in the Fort Donelson National 
Battlefield. Such land, interests in land, and improvements may be 
acquired by the Secretary only by purchase from willing sellers with 
appropriated or donated funds, by donation, or by exchange with willing 
owners.

[[Page 118 STAT. 1744]]

    (b) Land Eligible for Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior 
may acquire land, interests in land, and improvements thereon under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) within the boundaries of the Fort Donelson National 
        Battlefield described in section 2(b); and
            (2) outside such boundaries if the land has been identified 
        by the American Battlefield Protection Program as part of the 
        battlefield associated with Fort Donelson or if the Secretary 
        otherwise determines that acquisition under subsection (a) will 
        protect critical resources associated with the Battle of Fort 
        Donelson in 1862 and the Union campaign that resulted in the 
        capture of Fort Donelson.

    (c) Boundary Revision.--Upon acquisition of land or interests in 
land described in subsection (b)(2), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
revise the boundaries of the Fort Donelson National Battlefield to 
include the acquired property.
    (d) Limitation on Total Acreage of Park.--The total area encompassed 
by the Fort Donelson National Battlefield may not exceed 2,000 acres.
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF FORT DONELSON <<NOTE: 16 USC 428p-
                    2.>> NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall administer the Fort Donelson 
National Battlefield in accordance with this Act and the laws generally 
applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act of 
August 25, 1916 (commonly known as the National Park Service Organic 
Act; 16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (commonly 
known as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act; 16 U.S.C. 
461 et seq.).
SEC. 5. RELATION <<NOTE: Contracts.>> TO LAND BETWEEN THE LAKES 
                    NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
enter into a memorandum of understanding to facilitate cooperatively 
protecting and interpreting the remaining vestige of Fort Henry and 
other remaining Civil War resources in the Land Between the Lakes 
National Recreation Area affiliated with the Fort Donelson campaign.

[[Page 118 STAT. 1745]]

SEC. 6. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    The first section of Public Law 86-738 (16 U.S.C. 428k) is amended 
by striking ``Tennessee'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``Tennessee.''.

    Approved October 25, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 524:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-230 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            May 19, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 8, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>