[108th Congress Public Law 413]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ413.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 2325]]

Public Law 108-413
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the 
   University of New Mexico, to construct and occupy a portion of the 
   Hibben Center for Archaeological Research at the University of New 
  Mexico, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 30, 2004 -  [S. 643]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Hibben Center 
Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410ii note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hibben Center Act''.

SEC. 2. LEASE AGREEMENT.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior may enter into an 
agreement with the University of New Mexico to lease space in the Hibben 
Center for Archaeological Research at the University of New Mexico for 
research on, and curation of, the archaeological research collections of 
the National Park Service relating to the Chaco Culture National 
Historical Park and Aztec Ruins National Monument.
    (b) Term; Rent.--The lease shall provide for a term not exceeding 40 
years and a nominal annual lease payment.
    (c) Improvements.--The lease shall permit the Secretary to make 
improvements and install furnishings and fixtures related to the use and 
curation of the collections.

SEC. 3. GRANT.

    Upon execution of the lease, the Secretary may contribute to the 
University of New Mexico:
            (1) up to 37 percent of the cost of construction of the 
        Hibben Center, not to exceed $1,750,000; and
            (2) the cost of improvements, not to exceed $2,488,000.

SEC. 4. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410ii note.>> 

    The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the 
University of New Mexico, Federal agencies, and Indian tribes for the 
curation of and conduct of research on artifacts, and to encourage 
collaborative management of the Chacoan archaeological artifacts 
associated with northwestern New Mexico.

[[Page 118 STAT. 2326]]

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums 
as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.

    Approved October 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 643 (H.R. 3258):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-743 accompanying H.R. 3258 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-94 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 149 (2003):
                                    July 17, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 150 (2004):
                                    Sept. 28, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    Oct. 10, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>