[108th Congress Public Law 128]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ128.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1355]]

Public Law 108-128
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To revise the boundary of the Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park 
and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area in the State of Colorado, 
      and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 17, 2003 -  [S. 677]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Black Canyon of the 
Gunnison Boundary Revision Act of 2003.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410fff note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Black Canyon of the Gunnison Boundary 
Revision Act of 2003''.
SEC. 2. BLACK CANYON OF THE GUNNISON NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY 
                    REVISION.

    (a) Boundary Revision.--Section 4(a) of the Black Canyon of the 
Gunnison National Park and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area Act 
of 1999 (16 U.S.C. 410fff-2(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting ``(1) There''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The boundary of the Park is revised to include the 
        addition of approximately 2,530 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled `Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park and 
        Gunnison Gorge NCA Boundary Modifications' and dated April 2, 
        2003.''.

    (b) Transfer of <<NOTE: 16 USC 410fff-2 note.>> Administrative 
Jurisdiction.--On the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
transfer the land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
Management identified as ``Tract C'' on the map described in subsection 
(a)(2) to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service 
for inclusion in the Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park.

    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 5(a)(1) of the Black Canyon of 
the Gunnison National Park and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area 
Act of 1999 (16 U.S.C. 410fff-3(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``Map'' 
and inserting ``Map or the map described in section 4(a)(2)''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1356]]

SEC. 3. GUNNISON GORGE NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA BOUNDARY 
                    REVISION.

    Section 7(a) of the Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park and 
Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area Act of 1999 (16 U.S.C. 410fff-
5(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting ``(1) There''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The boundary of the Conservation Area is revised to 
        include the addition of approximately 7,100 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled `Black Canyon of the Gunnison 
        National Park and Gunnison Gorge NCA Boundary Modifications', 
        and dated April 2, 2003.''.

SEC. 4. GRAZING PRIVILEGES.

    (a) Transfer of Privileges.--Section 4(e)(1) of the Black Canyon of 
the Gunnison National Park and Gunnison Gorge National Area Act of 1999 
(16 U.S.C. 410fff-2(e)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(D) If land within the Park on which the grazing 
                of livestock is authorized under permits or leases under 
                subparagraph (A) is exchanged for private land under 
                section 5(a), the Secretary shall transfer any grazing 
                privileges to the land acquired in the exchange.''.

    (b) Privileges of Certain Partnerships.--Section 4(e)(3) of the 
Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park and Gunnison Gorge National 
Area Act of 1999 (16 U.S.C. 410fff-2(e)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (A);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (D);
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
                    ``(B) with respect to the permit or lease issued to 
                LeValley Ranch Ltd., for the lifetime of the last 
                surviving limited partner as of October 21, 1999;
                    ``(C) with respect to the permit or lease issued to 
                Sanburg Herefords, L.L.P., for the lifetime of the last 
                surviving general partner as of October 21, 1999; and''; 
                and
            (4) in subparagraph (D) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--
                    (A) by striking ``partnership, corporation, or'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``corporation or''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting 
                ``subparagraphs (A), (B), or (C)''.

[[Page 117 STAT. 1357]]

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410fff-2 note.>> ACCESS TO WATER DELIVERY 
            FACILITIES.

    The Commissioner of Reclamation shall retain administrative 
jurisdiction over the Crystal Dam Access Road and land, facilities, and 
roads of the Bureau of Reclamation in the East Portal area, including 
the Gunnison Tunnel, and the Crystal Dam area, as depicted on the map 
entitled ``Black Canyon of the Gunnison National Park and Gunnison Gorge 
NCA Boundary Modifications'', and dated April 2, 2003, for the 
maintenance, repair, construction, replacement, and operation of any 
facilities relating to the delivery of water and power under the 
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Reclamation.

    Approved November 17, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 677:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-344 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-96 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            July 17, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 4, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>