[108th Congress Public Law 86]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ086.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1052]]

Public Law 108-86
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend chapter 10 of title 39, United States Code, to include 
postmasters and postmasters' organizations in the process for the 
development and planning of certain policies, schedules, and programs,
and for other purposes.<<NOTE: Sept. 30, 2003 -  [S. 678]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Postmaster Equity Act of 
2003.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 39 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Postmasters Equity Act of 2003''.

SEC. 2. POSTMASTERS AND POSTMASTERS' ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Percentage Representation Requirement.--The second sentence of 
section 1004(b) of title 39, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``that an organization (other than an 
        organization representing supervisors) represents at least 20 
        percent of postmasters,'' after ``majority of supervisors,''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``supervisors)'' and inserting ``supervisors 
        or postmasters)''.

    (b) Consultation and Other Rights.--Section 1004 of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:

    ``(h)(1) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> In order to ensure that 
postmasters and postmasters' organizations are afforded the same rights 
under this section as are afforded to supervisors and the supervisors' 
organization, subsections (c) through (g) shall be applied with respect 
to postmasters and postmasters' organizations--
            ``(A) by substituting `postmasters' organization' for 
        `supervisors' organization' each place it appears; and
            ``(B) if 2 or more postmasters' organizations exist, by 
        treating such organizations as if they constituted a single 
        organization, in accordance with such arrangements as such 
        organizations shall mutually agree to.

    ``(2) If 2 or more postmasters' organizations exist, such 
organizations shall, in the case of any factfinding panel convened at 
the request of such organizations (in accordance with paragraph (1)(B)), 
be jointly and severally liable for the cost of such panel, apart from 
the portion to be borne by the Postal Service (as determined under 
subsection (f)(4)).''.
    (c) Definitions.--Subsection (i) of section 1004 of title 39, United 
States Code (as so redesignated by subsection (b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;

[[Page 117 STAT. 1053]]

            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting a 
        semicolon; and
            (3) by adding after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) `postmaster' means an individual who is the manager in 
        charge of the operations of a post office, with or without the 
        assistance of subordinate managers or supervisors;
            ``(4) `postmasters' organization' means an organization 
        recognized by the Postal Service under subsection (b) as 
        representing at least 20 percent of postmasters; and
            ``(5) `members of the postmasters' organization' shall be 
        considered to mean employees of the Postal Service who are 
        recognized under an agreement--
                    ``(A) between the Postal Service and the 
                postmasters' organization as represented by the 
                organization; or
                    ``(B) in the circumstance described in subsection 
                (h)(1)(B), between the Postal Service and the 
                postmasters' organizations (acting in concert) as 
                represented by either or any of the postmasters' 
                organizations involved.''.

    (d) Thrift <<NOTE: 39 USC 1004 note.>> Advisory Council Not To Be 
Affected.--For purposes of section 8473(b)(4) of title 5, United States 
Code--
            (1) each of the 2 or more organizations referred to in 
        section 1004(h)(1)(B) of title 39, United States Code (as 
        amended by subsection (b)) shall be treated as a separate 
        organization; and
            (2) any determination of the number of individuals 
        represented by each of those respective organizations shall be 
        made in a manner consistent with the purposes of this 
        subsection.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 39 USC 1004 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendments made by this section shall take effect 60 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Approved September 30, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 678 (H.R. 2249):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 108-112 (Comm. on Governmental Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            July 29, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 16, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>
 