[108th Congress Public Law 60]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ060.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 862]]

Public Law 108-60
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
       To award a congressional gold medal to Prime Minister Tony 
               Blair. <<NOTE: July 17, 2003 -  [S. 709]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 
note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDING.

    Congress finds that Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom 
has clearly demonstrated, during a very trying and historic time for our 
2 countries, that he is a staunch and steadfast ally of the United 
States of America.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of 
a gold medal of appropriate design, to Prime Minister Tony Blair, in 
recognition of his outstanding and enduring contributions to maintaining 
the security of all freedom-loving nations.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this 
Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with suitable 
emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--The medals struck pursuant to this Act are 
national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States 
Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.

SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authority To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.

[[Page 117 STAT. 863]]

    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals authorized under section 3 shall be deposited into the 
United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved July 17, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 709 (H.R. 1511):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            May 14, considered and passed Senate.
            July 14, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>