[113th Congress Public Law 145]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 128 STAT. 1753]]

Public Law 113-145
113th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
   Making an emergency supplemental appropriation for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 2014, to provide funding to Israel for the Iron 
Dome defense system to counter short-range rocket threats. <<NOTE: Aug. 
                      4, 2014 -  [H.J. Res. 76]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014.>> That the following sum is 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                               PROCUREMENT

                        Procurement, Defense-wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$225,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2015, which shall 
be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the Government of Israel 
for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense system to counter short-
range rocket threats:  Provided, That such funds shall be transferred 
immediately only through an exchange of letters to address emergent 
operations in support of Operation Protective Edge, notwithstanding 
section 3.1.3.2.1 of the U.S.-Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement:  
Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
apply to previously appropriated funds for the procurement of Iron Dome: 
 Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

    Approved August 4, 2014.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 76:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 159 (2013):
                                    Oct. 11, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 160 (2014):
                                    Aug. 1, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended. House concurred 
                                        in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>