[113th Congress Public Law 228]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 128 STAT. 2116]]

Public Law 113-228
113th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the approval of the Amendment to the Agreement Between 
the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for Cooperation on 
the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 16, 
                         2014 -  [H.R. 5681]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENT TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE 
                              GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
                              AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
                              UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND 
                              NORTHERN IRELAND FOR COOPERATION ON 
                              THE USES OF ATOMIC ENERGY FOR MUTUAL 
                              DEFENSE PURPOSES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the provisions for congressional 
consideration of a proposed agreement for cooperation in subsection d. 
of section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2153), the 
amendments to the Agreement Between the Government of the United States 
of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual 
Defense Purposes, done at Washington, July 22, 2014, and transmitted to 
Congress on July 24, 2014, including all portions thereof (hereinafter 
in this section referred to as the ``Amendment''), may be brought into 
effect on or after the date of the enactment of this Act as if all the 
requirements in such section 123 for consideration of the Amendment had 
been satisfied, subject to subsection (b) of this section.
    (b) Applicability of Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Other Provisions 
of Law.--Upon coming into effect, the Amendment shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) and 
any other applicable United States law as if the Amendment had come into 
effect in accordance with the requirements of section 123 of the Atomic 
Energy Act of 1954.

    Approved December 16, 2014.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5681:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 160 (2014):
            Nov. 19, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 3, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>