[113th Congress Public Law 9]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 127 STAT. 443]]

Public Law 113-9
113th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide the Secretary of Transportation with the flexibility to 
transfer certain funds to prevent reduced operations and staffing of the 
Federal Aviation Administration, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: May 1, 
                         2013 -  [H.R. 1765]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Reducing Flight 
Delays Act of 2013.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013''.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION TO TRANSFER CERTAIN FUNDS TO PREVENT REDUCED 
                    OPERATIONS AND STAFFING OF THE FEDERAL 
                    AVIATION ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding division G of the Consolidated and 
Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), any 
other provision of law, or a sequestration order issued or to be issued 
by the President pursuant to section 251A(7)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a(7)(A)), the 
Secretary of Transportation may transfer during fiscal year 2013 an 
amount equal to the amount specified in subsection (c) to the 
appropriations accounts providing for the operations of the Federal 
Aviation Administration, for any activity or activities funded by that 
account, from--
            (1) the amount made available for obligation in that fiscal 
        year as discretionary grants-in-aid for airports pursuant to 
        section 47117(f) of title 49, United States Code; or
            (2) any other program or account of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration.

    (b) Availability and Obligation of Transferred Amounts.--An amount 
transferred under subsection (a)(1) shall--
            (1) be available immediately for obligation and expenditure 
        as directly appropriated budget authority; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  be deemed as obligated for 
        grants-in-aid for airports under part B of subtitle VII of title 
        49, United States Code, for purposes of complying with the 
        limitation on incurring obligations during that fiscal year 
        under the heading ``Grants-in-Aid for Airports'' under title I 
        of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012 (division C of Public 
        Law 112-55; 125 Stat. 647), and made applicable to fiscal year 
        2013 by division F of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
        Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6).

    (c) <<NOTE: Notification. Deadline.>>  Amount Specified.--The amount 
specified in this subsection is the amount, not to exceed $253,000,000, 
that the Secretary

[[Page 127 STAT. 444]]

of Transportation determines to be necessary to prevent reduced 
operations and staffing of the Federal Aviation Administration during 
fiscal year 2013 to ensure a safe and efficient air transportation 
system; and provided that none of the funds transferred under this 
subsection may be obligated unless the Secretary notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at 
least 5 days in advance of such transfer.

    Approved May 1, 2013.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1765 (S. 853):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 159 (2013):
            Apr. 26, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 30, considered and passed Senate pursuant to S. 853.

                                  <all>