[113th Congress Public Law 78]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 127 STAT. 647]]

Public Law 113-78
113th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a 
commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for 
          other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 24, 2014 -  [S. 230]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 40 USC 8903 note.>>  MEMORIAL TO COMMEMORATE 
                              AMERICA'S COMMITMENT TO 
                              INTERNATIONAL SERVICE AND GLOBAL 
                              PROSPERITY.

    (a) Authorization To Establish Commemorative Work.--The Peace Corps 
Commemorative Foundation may establish a commemorative work on Federal 
land in the District of Columbia and its environs to commemorate the 
mission of the Peace Corps and the ideals on which the Peace Corps was 
founded.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works Act.--The 
establishment of the commemorative work under this section shall be in 
accordance with chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly 
known as the ``Commemorative Works Act'').
    (c) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--
            (1) In general.--Federal funds may not be used to pay any 
        expense of the establishment of the commemorative work under 
        this section.
            (2) Responsibility of peace corps.--The Peace Corps 
        Commemorative Foundation shall be solely responsible for 
        acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, 
        the establishment of the commemorative work under this section.

    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, on payment of all expenses for the 
establishment of the commemorative work under this section (including 
the maintenance and preservation amount required by section 8906(b)(1) 
of title 40, United States Code), or on expiration of the authority for 
the commemorative work under section 8903(e) of title 40, United States 
Code, there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of 
the commemorative work, the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation shall 
transmit the amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Interior for 
deposit in the account provided for in section 8906(b)(3) of title 40, 
United States Code.
SEC. 2. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the

[[Page 127 STAT. 648]]

Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, 
provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on 
passage.

    Approved January 24, 2014.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 230:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 113-21 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 159 (2013):
                                    June 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 160 (2014):
                                    Jan. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>