[107th Congress Public Law 44]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ044.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 253]]

Public Law 107-44
107th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2002, and for other 
          purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 28, 2001 -  [H.J. Res. 65]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2002, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a)(1) Such amounts as may be necessary under the 
authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act 
for fiscal year 2001 for continuing projects or activities including the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically 
provided for in this joint resolution) which were conducted in fiscal 
year 2001 and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority would 
be available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (A) the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002;
            (B) the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
        Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002, 
        notwithstanding section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956, section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-
        236), and section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1));
            (C) the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 
        2002;
            (D) the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2002, notwithstanding section 10 of 
        Public Law 91-672 and section 15 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956;
            (E) the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2002;
            (F) the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002;
            (G) the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2002;
            (H) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2002;
            (I) the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 
        2002; and
            (J) the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and 
        Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
        2002:

[[Page 115 STAT. 254]]

Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted in these Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 2001, is different than that which would be 
available or granted under current operations, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the 
current rate: Provided further, That whenever there is no amount made 
available under any of these appropriations Acts as passed by the House 
and Senate as of October 1, 2001, for a continuing project or activity 
which was conducted in fiscal year 2001 and for which there is fiscal 
year 2002 funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project 
or activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under 
the authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2001.
    (2) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted under an Act listed in this subsection 
as passed by the House as of October 1, 2001, is different from that 
which would be available or granted under such Act as passed by the 
Senate as of October 1, 2001, the pertinent project or activity shall be 
continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate and 
under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2001.
    (3) Whenever an Act listed in this subsection has been passed by 
only the House or only the Senate as of October 1, 2001, the pertinent 
project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation, fund, or 
authority granted by the one House at a rate for operations not 
exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions 
provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2001: 
Provided, That whenever there is no amount made available under any of 
these appropriations Acts as passed by the House or the Senate as of 
October 1, 2001, for a continuing project or activity which was 
conducted in fiscal year 2001 and for which there is fiscal year 2002 
funding included in the budget request, the pertinent project or 
activity shall be continued at the rate for current operations under the 
authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act 
for fiscal year 2001.
    (b) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2001 for continuing projects or activities including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically provided for in 
this joint resolution) which were conducted in fiscal year 2001, at a 
rate for operations not exceeding the current rate, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority was made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
            (1) the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001, 
        notwithstanding section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act 
        of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414(a)(1)); and
            (2) the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
        Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001; and
            (3) the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001.

    Sec. 102. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for new production of items not funded for production in fiscal 
year 2001 or prior years, for the increase in production rates above 
those sustained with fiscal year 2001 funds, or to initiate, resume, or 
continue any project, activity, operation, or

[[Page 115 STAT. 255]]

organization which are defined as any project, subproject, activity, 
budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a program 
element and for investment items are further defined as a P-1 line item 
in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 line 
item which includes a program element and subprogram element within an 
appropriation account, for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2001: Provided, That no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to initiate 
multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding for 
economic order quantity procurement unless specifically appropriated 
later.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during fiscal year 2001.
    Sec. 105. No provision which is included in an appropriations Act 
listed in section 101(a) but which was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2001 and which by its terms is 
applicable to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority shall be 
applicable to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred 
for any program, project, or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> Unless otherwise provided for 
in this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations Act, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until (a) enactment into law 
of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this 
joint resolution, or (b) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project 
or activity, or (c) October 16, 2001, whichever first occurs.

    Sec. 108. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 109. No provision in any appropriations Act for fiscal year 
2002 listed in section 101(a) that makes the availability of any 
appropriation provided therein dependent upon the enactment of 
additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective before 
the date set forth in section 107(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 110. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing 
herein shall be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 111. This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.

[[Page 115 STAT. 256]]

    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 107, for those programs that had high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of fiscal year 2001 
appropriations at the beginning of that fiscal year because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees or 
others, similar distributions of funds for fiscal year 2002 shall not be 
made and no grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this 
resolution that would impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 113. Activities authorized by sections 1319 and 1336(a) of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) may 
continue through the date specified in section 107(c) of this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 114. Activities authorized by title V of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, may continue through the date 
specified in section 107(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 115. Activities authorized by section 7 of the Export-Import 
Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635f) and section 1(c) of Public Law 103-
428, may continue through the date specified in section 107(c) of this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 116. Activities authorized by chapter 2 of title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974 shall continue through the date specified in section 
107(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 117. Activities authorized by subsection (f) of section 403 of 
Public Law 103-356 may continue through the date specified in section 
107(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 118. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 107, the Library of Congress may temporarily 
transfer to the revolving fund established under section 103 of Public 
Law 106-481 amounts to continue program operations at a rate not 
exceeding the rate under authority applicable prior to October 1, 2001.
    Sec. 119. Of amounts provided by section 101 of this joint 
resolution, for projects and activities that would be funded under the 
heading ``International Organizations and Conferences, Contributions to 
International Organizations'' in the Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, 
$100,000,000 may be made available only pursuant to a certification by 
the Secretary of State that the United Nations has taken no action in 
calendar year 2001 prior to the date of enactment of this Act to 
increase funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget and cause the 
United Nations to exceed the budget for the biennium 2000-2001 of 
$2,535,700,000.
    Sec. 120. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, in the event that H.R. 1088, the Investor and Capital 
Markets Fee Relief Act, or other legislation to amend section 6(b) of 
the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), and sections 13(e), 
14(g), and 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(e), 
78n(g), and 78ee), is enacted into law during the period covered by this 
joint resolution, the fees, charges, and assessments authorized by such 
sections, as amended, shall be deposited and credited as offsetting 
collections to the account that provides appropriations to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.

[[Page 115 STAT. 257]]

    Sec. 121. Collection and use of maintenance fees as authorized by 
section 4(i) and 4(k) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and 
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. Sec. 136a-1(i) and (k)) may continue through 
the date specified in section 107(c) of this joint resolution. 
Prohibitions against collecting ``other fees'' as described in section 
4(i)(6) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 
U.S.C. Sec. 136a-1(i)(6)) shall continue in effect through the date 
specified in section 107(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 122. Notwithstanding section 106 of this joint resolution, 
funds made available in Public Law 107-38 are not limited by the terms 
and conditions of this joint resolution.

    Approved September 28, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 65:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Sept. 24, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 25, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>