[107th Congress Public Law 294]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ294.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 2062]]

Public Law 107-294
107th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 2003, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 23, 2002 -  [H.J. Res. 124]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Public Law 107-229 is 
further amended by striking the date specified in section 
107(c) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1503.>>  and inserting in lieu thereof ``January 
11, 2003''.

    Sec. 2. Section 114 of Public Law 107-229 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1467.>>  
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``December 31, 2002'' and inserting ``the 
        date specified in section 107(c) of this joint resolution''; and
            (2) by striking the first proviso and inserting the 
        following: ``: Provided, That grants and payments may be made 
        pursuant to this authority at the beginning of any included 
        quarter or other period of fiscal year 2003, for such quarter or 
        other period, at the level provided for such activities for the 
        corresponding quarter or other period of fiscal year 2002''.

    Sec. 3. Upon determination by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
that such action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the 
approval of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
$500,000,000 of funds made available to the Department of Homeland 
Security and be available for the same purposes, and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided, 
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen homeland security requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item 
for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2003, the Office of Management and 
Budget may transfer not to exceed $140,000,000 from unobligated balances 
of appropriations enacted prior to October 1, 2002 for organizations and 
entities that will be transferred to the new Department for the salaries 
and expenses associated with the initiation of the Department: Provided 
further, That of amounts authorized for transfer by this section, except 
as otherwise specifically authorized by law, not to exceed two percent 
of any appropriation available to the Secretary may be transferred 
between such appropriations: Provided further, That not less than 15 
days' notice shall be given to the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate and House of Representatives before any such transfer is made: 
Provided further, That no part of the funds in this Act shall be 
available to prepare or present a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for higher priority 
items, based on unforeseen homeland security requirements, than those 
for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
which reprogramming is requested has been denied

[[Page 116 STAT. 2063]]

by Congress: Provided further, <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> That the 
authority provided in this section shall expire on September 30, 2004.

    Approved November 23, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 124:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Nov. 13, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>