[107th Congress Public Law 13]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ013.107]

Public Law 107-13
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To authorize the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
 Agriculture to use funds appropriated for wildland fire management in 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
  2001, <<NOTE: June 3, 2001 -  [H.R. 581]>>  to reimburse the United 
   States Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries 
  Service to facilitate the interagency cooperation required under the 
    Endangered Species Act of 1973 in connection with wildland fire 
                               management.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. USE OF WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT FUNDS TO FACILITATE 
            COMPLIANCE WITH ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT CONSULTATION 
            REQUIREMENTS.

    The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may 
use funds appropriated for wildland fire management in the Department of 
the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 
106-291; 114 Stat. 922), to reimburse the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service for the costs 
of carrying out their responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act 
of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and conference, as required 
by section 7 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1536), in connection with wildland 
fire management activities.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS; REQUIREMENT REGARDING NOTICE.

    (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case 
of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased 
using funds provided under section 1, it is the sense of the Congress 
that entities receiving the funds should, in expending the funds, 
purchase only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Funds.--In expending funds provided 
under section 1, the head of each Federal agency receiving such funds 
shall provide to each recipient of the funds a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Notice of Report.--Any <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  entity which 
receives funds under section 1 shall report any expenditures on foreign-
made items to the Congress within 180 days of the expenditure.

    Approved June 3, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 581:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-35 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            May 9, considered and passed House.
            May 24, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>