[107th Congress Public Law 138]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ138.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 6]]

Public Law 107-138
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To require the valuation of nontribal interest ownership of subsurface 
 rights within the boundaries of the Acoma Indian Reservation, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Feb. 6, 2002 -  [H.R. 1913]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: New Mexico.>>  PUEBLO OF ACOMA LAND AND MINERAL 
            CONSOLIDATION.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Valuation.--Not later than 6 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall determine the extent and the value of the nontribal interest 
ownership of the subsurface rights, including mineral rights, within the 
boundaries of the Acoma Indian Reservation.

    (b) Land Exchanges.--Upon completion of the valuation required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, unless the Secretary exercises an 
option under subsection (c), negotiate an exchange with any willing 
sellers of interests in nontribal land (including interests in mineral 
or other surface or subsurface rights) within the boundaries of the 
Acoma Indian Reservation for interests in Federal land that is--
            (1) located within the boundaries of the State of New 
        Mexico;
            (2) identified by the Bureau of Land Management as available 
        for disposal; and
            (3) of approximately the same value as the interest in land 
        for which it is being exchanged.

    (c) Purchase Option.--At the discretion of the Secretary, instead of 
a land exchange under subsection (b), the Secretary may acquire 
interests in nontribal land (including interests in mineral or other 
surface or subsurface rights) within the boundaries of the Acoma Indian 
Reservation through--
            (1) direct cash purchase of the interests in nontribal land 
        for the fair market value determined under subsection (a); and
            (2) issuance to any owner of the interests in nontribal land 
        of a Certificate of Bidding Rights in such form and manner as 
        provided for under regulations promulgated by the Secretary 
        under provisions of the Act of February 25, 1920 (commonly known 
        as the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.)) or the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) for mineral 
        leasing and bidding rights equal to the fair market value 
        determined under subsection (a).

    (d) Cost Sharing.--The costs of the valuation required under 
subsection (a) and any land exchange under subsection (b) shall be 
equally shared between the owners of the interests in nontribal land and 
the Secretary. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This subsection shall apply to 
the cost


[[Page 116 STAT. 7]]

of the valuation under subsection (a) even if the Secretary elects to 
exercise the options for acquisition under subsection (c).

SEC. 2. TIMELINE; LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST.

    The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Secretary shall complete such negotiations 
and exchanges not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act and shall place interests in land within the boundaries of the 
Acoma Indian Reservation that are acquired under this Act into trust for 
the Pueblo of Acoma.

    Approved February 6, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1913:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-285 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Nov. 27, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Jan. 28, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>