[107th Congress Public Law 148]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ148.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 64]]

Public Law 107-148
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the establishment of Radio Free Afghanistan. <<NOTE: Mar. 
                       11, 2002 -  [H.R. 2998]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Radio Free Afghanistan 
Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Radio Free Afghanistan Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6215.>> ESTABLISHMENT OF RADIO FREE AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> Requirement of a Detailed Plan.--
Not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this Act, RFE/RL, 
Incorporated, shall submit to the Broadcasting Board of Governors a 
report setting forth a detailed plan for the provision by RFE/RL, 
Incorporated, of surrogate broadcasting services in the Dari and Pashto 
languages to Afghanistan. Such broadcasting services shall be known as 
``Radio Free Afghanistan''.

    (b) Grant Authority.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> In general.--Effective 15 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, or the date on which 
        the report required by subsection (a) is submitted, whichever is 
        later, the Broadcasting Board of Governors is authorized to make 
        grants to support Radio Free Afghanistan.
            (2) Supersedes existing limitation on total annual grant 
        amounts.--Grants made to RFE/RL, Incorporated, during the fiscal 
        year 2002 for support of Radio Free Afghanistan may be made 
        without regard to section 308(c) of the United States 
        International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6207(c)).

    (c) Available Authorities.--In addition to the authorities in this 
Act, the authorities applicable to carry out United States Government 
broadcasting activities under the United States Information and 
Educational Exchange Act of 1948, the United States International 
Broadcasting Act of 1994, the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring 
Act of 1998, and other provisions of law consistent with such purpose 
may be used to carry out the grant authority of subsection (b).
    (d) Standards; Oversight.--Radio Free Afghanistan shall adhere to 
the same standards of professionalism and accountability, and shall be 
subject to the same oversight mechanisms, as other services of RFE/RL, 
Incorporated.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to such amounts as are otherwise 
available for such purposes, the following amounts are authorized

[[Page 116 STAT. 65]]

to be appropriated to carry out United States Government broadcasting 
activities under the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, 
the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998, and this Act, 
and to carry out other authorities in law consistent with such purposes:
            (1) For ``International Broadcasting Operations'', 
        $8,000,000 for the fiscal year 2002.
            (2) For ``Broadcasting Capital Improvements'', $9,000,000 
        for the fiscal year 2002.

    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
subsection (a) are authorized to remain available until expended.

SEC. 4. REPEAL OF BAN ON UNITED STATES TRANSMITTER IN KUWAIT.

    Section 226 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236; 108 Stat. 423), is repealed.

    Approved March 11, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2998 (S. 1779):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-125 accompanying S. 1779 (Comm. on Foreign 
Relations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Nov. 6, 7, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Feb. 7, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                                        S. 1779.
                                    Feb. 12, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>