[107th Congress Public Law 20]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ020.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 155]]

Public Law 107-20
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
           Making supplemental <<NOTE: July 24, 2001 -  [H.R. 
 2216]>> appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2001, 
                         and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2001.>> assembled, That the following sums are appropriated, out of 
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--NATIONAL SECURITY MATTERS

                                CHAPTER 1

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                     Radiation Exposure Compensation

          payment to radiation exposure compensation trust fund

    For payment to the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund for 
approved claims, for fiscal year 2001, such sums as may be necessary.

                                CHAPTER 2

                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$164,000,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$84,000,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$69,000,000.

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *See note at the bottom of page 115 Stat. 164.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 115 STAT. 156]]

                      Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$119,500,000.

                         Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$52,000,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$8,500,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$6,000,000.

                   National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $12,000,000.

                        OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                     Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$792,400,000, of which $214,000,000 shall be made available only for the 
repair and maintenance of real property.

                     Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$1,024,100,000: Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading, $10,200,000 shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2002.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $62,000,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $813,800,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $123,250,000: Provided, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $6,800,000 shall remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2002.

[[Page 115 STAT. 157]]

                 Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $20,500,000.

                 Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $12,500,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $1,900,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $34,000,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $42,900,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $119,300,000.

                               PROCUREMENT

                         Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$7,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2003.

                    Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', 
$297,000,000: Provided, That upon enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of the Navy shall transfer such funds to the following appropriations in 
the amount specified: Provided further, That the amounts transferred 
shall be merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and 
for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:
            To:
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
                Navy, 1995/2001'':
                          Carrier Replacement Program, $84,000,000.
                          DDG-51 Destroyer Program, $300,000.
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
                Navy, 1996/2001'':
                          DDG-51 Destroyer Program, $14,600,000.
                          LPD-17 Amphibious Transport Dock Ship Program, 
                      $140,000,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 158]]

                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
                Navy, 1997/2001'':
                        DDG-51 Destroyer Program, $12,600,000.
                    Under the heading, ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
                Navy, 1998/2001'':
                          NSSN Program, $32,000,000.
                          DDG-51 Destroyer Program, $13,500,000.

                     Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$78,000,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2003.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$15,500,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2003.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $31,200,000, to remain available for obligation until September 
30, 2003.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$138,150,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2003.

                        Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$5,800,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 2003.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $5,000,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2002.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $128,000,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2002.

          Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $275,500,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

[[Page 115 STAT. 159]]

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $84,100,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2002.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                      Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$178,400,000, to remain available until expended.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$1,453,400,000 for Operation and maintenance, of which $500,000,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of the 
funds made available in this paragraph, not more than $655,000,000 may 
be made available for a global settlement of claims made under TRICARE 
managed care support contracts: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available in this paragraph, not less than $151,200,000 shall be made 
available upon enactment only for requirements of the direct care system 
and military medical treatment facilities, to be administered solely by 
the uniformed services Surgeons General: Provided further, That funds 
made available in this paragraph may be used to cover increases in costs 
associated with the provision of health care services to eligible 
beneficiaries of all the uniformed services.
    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$150,000,000 for Operation and maintenance, to remain available until 
expended, only for the use of the Surgeons General to improve the 
quality of care provided at military medical treatment facilities, of 
which $30,000,000 shall be made available only to optimize health care 
services at Army military medical treatment facilities, $30,000,000 
shall be made available only to optimize health care services at Navy 
military medical treatment facilities, $30,000,000 shall be made 
available only to optimize health care services at Air Force military 
medical treatment facilities, $30,000,000 shall be made available only 
to finance advances in medical practices to be equally divided between 
the services, and $30,000,000 shall be made available for other 
requirements of the direct care system and military medical treatment 
facilities: Provided, That the funds provided in this paragraph are to 
be administered solely by the Army, Navy and Air Force Surgeons General: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this paragraph may 
be made available for optimization programs, projects or activities 
unless the Surgeon General of the respective service determines that: 
(1) such program, project or activity shall produce annual cost savings 
in excess of annual cost within not more than three years from the date 
of project initiation, or (2) that such program, project or activity is 
necessary to address a serious health care deficiency at a military 
medical treatment facility that could threaten health care outcomes: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this paragraph may 
be made available to a service unless the Secretary of Defense expresses 
the intent to the congressional

[[Page 115 STAT. 160]]

defense committees that all optimization programs, projects and 
activities financed in this paragraph will be continued and fully 
financed in the Department of Defense six year budget plan known as the 
Program Objective Memorandum.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1201. Fuel transferred by the Defense Energy Supply Center to 
the Department of the Interior for use at Midway Island during fiscal 
year 2000 shall be deemed for all purposes to have been transferred on a 
nonreimbursable basis.
    Sec. 1202. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are deemed to 
be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414).

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1203. In addition to the amount appropriated in section 308 of 
division A, Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001, as enacted by 
section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-554 (114 Stat. 2763A-181 and 182), 
$44,000,000 is hereby appropriated for ``Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy'', to remain available until expended: Provided, That such amount, 
and the amount previously appropriated in section 308, shall be for 
costs associated with the stabilization, return, refitting, necessary 
force protection upgrades, and repair of the U.S.S. COLE, including any 
costs previously incurred for such purposes: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer these funds to appropriations accounts 
for procurement: Provided further, That the funds transferred shall be 
merged with and shall be available for the same purposes and for the 
same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided herein is in addition to 
any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 1204. Of the funds made available in Department of Defense 
appropriations Acts, or otherwise available to the Department of 
Defense, the following funds are hereby rescinded, from the following 
accounts in the specified amounts:
            ``Procurement, Marine Corps, 2000/2002'', $3,000,000;
            ``Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund, 2001'', 
        $200,000,000;
            ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Defense'', $68,400,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy 2001/2003'', $199,000,000;
            ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, 2001/2005'', LPD-
        17(AP), $75,000,000;
            ``Procurement, Marine Corps, 2001/2003'', $5,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force, 2001/2003'', 
        $327,500,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force, 2001/2003'', $65,000,000;
            ``Procurement, Defense-Wide, 2001/2003'', $85,000,000; and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide, 
        2001/2002'', $7,000,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 161]]

    Sec. 1205. In addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available elsewhere in this Act for the Department of Defense or in the 
Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-259), 
$39,900,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense, for 
facilities repair and damages resulting from natural disasters, as 
follows:
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $6,500,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $23,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $8,000,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve'', $200,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve'', $200,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'', 
        $400,000;
            ``Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard'', $400,000; 
        and
            ``Defense Health Program'', $1,200,000.

    Sec. 1206. The authority to purchase or receive services under the 
demonstration project authorized by section 816 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337) may be 
exercised through January 31, 2002, notwithstanding subsection (c) of 
that section.
    Sec. 1207. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Defense may retain all or a portion of Fort Greely, Alaska as the 
Secretary deems necessary, to meet military, operational, logistics and 
personnel support requirements for missile defense.
    Sec. 1208. Of the funds appropriated in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2001, Public Law 106-259, in title IV under the 
heading, ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 
$2,000,000 may be made available for a Maritime Fire Training Center at 
the Marine and Environmental Research and Training Station (MERTS), and 
$2,000,000 may be made available for a Maritime Fire Training Center at 
Barbers Point, including provision for laboratories, construction, and 
other efforts associated with research, development, and other programs 
of major importance to the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 1209. Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $8,000,000 shall be available for 
the purpose of repairing storm damage at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and Red 
River Army Depot, Texas.
    Sec. 1210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Army shall convey to the City of Bayonne, New Jersey, 
without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to the firefighting and rescue vehicles described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) The firefighting and rescue vehicles referred to in subsection 
(a) are a rescue hazardous materials truck, a 2,000 gallon per minute 
pumper, and a 100-foot elevating platform truck, all of which are at 
Military Ocean Terminal, Bayonne, New Jersey.
    Sec. 1211. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2001 may be obligated or expended for retiring or 
dismantling any of the 93 B-1B Lancer bombers in service as of June 1, 
2001, or for transferring or reassigning any of those aircraft from the 
unit, or the facility, to which assigned as of that date.

[[Page 115 STAT. 162]]

                                CHAPTER 3

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                    Atomic Energy Defense Activities

                National Nuclear Security Administration

                           weapons activities

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Activities'', $126,625,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That funding is authorized 
for Project 01-D-107, Atlas Relocation and Operations, and Project 01-D-
108, Microsystems and Engineering Sciences Applications Complex.

                    Other Defense Related Activities

         defense environmental restoration and waste management

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Environmental Restoration and 
Waste Management'', $95,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   defense facilities closure projects

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Facilities Closure 
Projects'', $21,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             defense environmental management privatization

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Environmental Management 
Privatization'', $29,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                        other defense activities

    For an additional amount for ``Other Defense Activities'', 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                CHAPTER 4

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                       Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$22,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
such funds may be obligated or expended to carry out planning and design 
and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy'', 
$9,400,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
such funds may be obligated or expended to carry out planning and design 
and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

[[Page 115 STAT. 163]]

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'', 
$10,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
such funds may be obligated or expended to carry out planning and design 
and military construction projects not otherwise authorized by law.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air National 
Guard'', $6,700,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, such funds may be obligated or expended to carry out planning 
and design and military construction projects not otherwise authorized 
by law.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Army'', $30,480,000 
for operation and maintenance.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine 
Corps'', $20,300,000 for operation and maintenance.

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Family Housing, Air Force'', 
$18,000,000 for operation and maintenance.

              Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

    For an additional amount for deposit into the ``Department of 
Defense Base Realignment and Closure Account 1990'', $9,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 1401. (a) Cadet Physical Development Center.--Notwithstanding 
section 138 of the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2001 
(division A of Public Law 106-246; 114 Stat. 524), the Secretary of the 
Army may expend appropriated funds in excess of the amount specified by 
such section to construct and renovate the Cadet Physical Development 
Center at the United States Military Academy, except that--
            (1) such additional expenditures may be used only for the 
        purposes of meeting unanticipated price increases and related 
        construction contingency costs and making minor changes to the 
        project to incorporate design features that result in reducing 
        long-term operating costs; and
            (2) such additional expenditures may not exceed the 
        difference between the authorized amount for the project and the 
        amount specified in such section.

    (b) Limitations and Reports.--No sums may be expended for final 
phase construction of the project until 15 days after the Secretary of 
the Army submits a report to the congressional defense committees 
describing the revised cost estimates referred to in subsection (a), the 
methodology used in making these cost estimates,

[[Page 115 STAT. 164]]

and the changes in project costs compared to estimates made in 
October, <<NOTE: Deadline.>> 2000. Not later than August 1, 2001, the 
Secretary of the Army shall submit a report to the congressional defense 
committees explaining the plan of the Department of the Army to expend 
privately donated funds for capital improvements at the United States 
Military Academy between fiscal years 2001 and 2011.

    Sec. 1402. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this 
chapter, amounts provided to the Department of Defense under each of the 
headings in this chapter shall be made available for the same time 
period as the amounts appropriated under each such heading in Public Law 
106-246.

                              (rescissions)

    Sec. 1403. Of the funds provided in the Military Construction 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-246), the following amounts are 
hereby rescinded as of the date of the enactment of this Act:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $12,856,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy'', $6,213,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $4,935,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $14,376,000;
            ``Family Housing, Army'', $4,000,000; and
            ``Family Housing, Air Force'', $4,375,000.

    Sec. 1404. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
authorized, and authorized to be appropriated, for the Defense Agencies 
for the TRICARE Management Agency for a military construction project 
for Bassett Army Hospital at Fort Wainwright, Alaska, shall be 
$215,000,000.
    Sec. 1405. Designation of <<NOTE: Federal buildings and 
facilities.>> Engineering and Management Building at Norfolk Naval 
Shipyard, Virginia, After Norman Sisisky. The engineering and management 
building (also known as Building 1500) at Norfolk Naval Shipyard, 
Portsmouth, Virginia, shall be known as the Norman Sisisky Engineering 
and Management Building. Any reference to that building in any law, 
regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States 
shall be considered to be a reference to the Norman Sisisky Engineering 
and Management Building.

               TITLE II--OTHER SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS

                                CHAPTER 1

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                         Office of the Secretary

    For an additional amount for ``Office of the Secretary'', 
$3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That 
of these funds, no less than $1,000,000 shall be used for enforcement of 
the Animal Welfare Act: Provided further, That of these funds, no less 
than $1,000,000 shall be used to enhance humane slaughter practices 
under the Federal Meat Inspection Act: Provided further, That no more 
than $500,000 of these funds shall be made available to the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics for development and 
demonstration of technologies to promote the humane treatment of 
animals: Provided

__________
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    *Note: In line 8 of section 1403, the correct amount ``$14,376,000'' 
has been added in lieu of the amount ``$4,376,000''.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 115 STAT. 165]]

further, That these funds may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for agencies performing this work.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $5,000,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

                    agricultural conservation program

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated for ``Agricultural Conservation Program'' 
under Public Law 104-37, $45,000,000 are rescinded.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For an additional amount for ``Watershed and Flood Prevention 
Operations'', to repair damages to waterways and watersheds resulting 
from natural disasters, $35,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2101. Title I of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as 
enacted by Public Law 106-387; 114 Stat. 1549, 1549A-10) is amended by 
striking ``until expended'' under the heading ``Buildings and 
Facilities'' under the heading ``Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service'' and adding the following: ``until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law (including chapter 63 of 
title 31, U.S.C.), $4,670,000 of the amount shall be transferred by the 
Secretary and once transferred, shall be state funds for the 
construction, renovation, equipment, and other related costs for a post 
entry plant quarantine facility and related laboratories as described in 
Senate Report 106-288''.
    Sec. 2102. The paragraph under the heading ``Rural Community 
Advancement Program'' in title III of the Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted by Public Law 106-387; 114 Stat. 
1549, 1549A-17) is amended--
            (1) in the third proviso, by striking ``ability of'' and 
        inserting ``ability of low income rural communities and''; and
            (2) in the fourth proviso, by striking ``assistance to'' the 
        first place it appears and inserting ``assistance and to''.

    Sec. 2103. <<NOTE: Deadline. Regulations. 7 USC 1522 note.>> (a) Not 
later than August 1, 2001, the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation shall 
promulgate final regulations to carry out section 522(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 522(b)), without regard to--
            (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 553 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (2) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary of Agriculture 
        effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to 
        notices

[[Page 115 STAT. 166]]

        of proposed rulemaking and public participation in rulemaking; 
        and
            (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
        known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act'').

    (b) In carrying out this section, the Corporation shall use the 
authority provided under section 808 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The final regulations promulgated 
under subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of publication of the 
final regulations.

    Sec. 2104. In addition to amounts otherwise available, $20,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, from amounts pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 
713a-4 for the Secretary of Agriculture to make available financial 
assistance to eligible producers to promote water conservation in the 
Klamath Basin, as determined by the Secretary: Provided, That the 
issuance of regulations promulgated pursuant to this section shall be 
made without regard to: (1) the notice and comment provisions of section 
553 of title 5, United States Code; (2) the Statement of Policy of the 
Secretary of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 13804), 
relating to notices of proposed rulemaking and public participation in 
rulemaking; and (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly 
known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act''): Provided further, That in 
carrying out this section, the Secretary shall use the authority 
provided under section 808 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 2105. Under the heading ``Food Stamp Program'' in the 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted by Public Law 106-
387), in the sixth proviso, <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 1549A-24.>> strike 
``$194,000,000'' and insert in lieu thereof ``$191,000,000''.

    Sec. 2106. Of funds which may be reserved by the Secretary for 
allocation to State agencies under section 16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp 
Act of 1977 to carry out the Employment and Training program, 
$39,500,000 made available in prior years are rescinded and returned to 
the Treasury.
    Sec. 2107. In addition to amounts otherwise available, $2,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, from amounts pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 
713a-4 for the Secretary of Agriculture to make available financial 
assistance to eligible producers to promote water conservation in the 
Yakima Basin, Washington, as determined by the Secretary: Provided, That 
the issuance of regulations promulgated pursuant to this section shall 
be made without regard to: (1) the notice and comment provisions of 
section 553 of title 5, United States Code; (2) the Statement of Policy 
of the Secretary of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 (36 Fed. Reg. 
13804), relating to notices of proposed rulemaking and public 
participation in rulemaking; and (3) chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code (commonly known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act''): 
Provided further, That in carrying out this section, the Secretary shall 
use the authority provided under section 808 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 2108. (a) In addition to the payment of any other eligible 
expenses, the Secretary of Agriculture shall have the authority to 
approve the use of Commodity Credit Corporation funds pursuant to 15 
U.S.C. 713a-4 to make available up to $22,949,000 of financial 
assistance for internal transportation, storage, and handling expenses, 
and for any appropriate administrative expenses as determined by the 
Secretary, for cooperating sponsors with which the Secretary has entered 
into agreements in fiscal year 2001 or 2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 167]]

under the Global Food for Education Initiative covered by the notice 
published by the Corporation in the Federal Register on September 6, 
2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 53977 et seq.), for their activities under those 
agreements.
    (b) The unobligated balance of the funds appropriated by section 
745(e) of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as 
enacted into law by Public Law 106-387) is rescinded.

                                CHAPTER 2

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                      coastal and ocean activities

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds made available in Public Law 106-553 for the costs of 
construction of a research center at the ACE Basin National Estuarine 
Research Reserve, for use under this heading until expended, $8,000,000 
are rescinded.
    For an additional amount for the activities specified in Public Law 
106-553 for which funds were rescinded in the preceding paragraph, 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended for construction and 
$5,000,000, to remain available until expended for land acquisition.

                         Departmental Management

              emergency oil and gas guaranteed loan program

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available in the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed 
Loan Program Act (chapter 2 of Public Law 106-51; 113 Stat. 255-258), 
$114,800,000 are rescinded.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                      Small Business Administration

                          salaries and expenses

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds made available in Public Law 106-553 for the costs of 
technical assistance related to the New Markets Venture Capital Program 
for use under this heading in only fiscal year 2001, $30,000,000 are 
rescinded.
    For an additional amount for the activities specified in Public Law 
106-553 for which funds were rescinded in the preceding paragraph, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 168]]

                     business loans program account

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds made available in Public Law 106-553 for the costs of 
guaranteed loans under the New Markets Venture Capital Program for use 
under this heading in only fiscal year 2001, $22,000,000 are rescinded.
    For an additional amount for the activities specified in Public Law 
106-553 for which funds were rescinded in the preceding paragraph, 
$22,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2201. Section 144(d) of division B of Public Law 106-
554 <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2763A-240.>> is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) and paragraph (5)(B) by striking ``not 
        later than May 1, 2001'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``as soon 
        as practicable'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking ``for vessels'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``who hold such permits based on 
        fishing histories'';
            (3) in paragraph (2)(B)(i) by striking ``meets'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``is fishing under a permit that is 
        issued based on fishing histories that meet'';
            (4) in paragraph (2)(B)(i) by inserting ``, provided that 
        any interim Bering Sea crab fishery certificates issued after 
        December 1, 2000 shall remain valid until the Secretary 
        implements final regulations consistent with the provisions of 
        this subparagraph'' after ``paragraph'';
            (5) in paragraph (3) by striking ``the May 1, 2001 date'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``the direction to issue 
        regulations as soon as practicable as'';
            (6) in paragraph (3) by striking ``with that date''; and
            (7) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii) by striking ``have made'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``except as specifically provided 
        otherwise in the regulations described in clause (i), include''.

    Sec. 2202. (a) Section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, as 
amended by section 202(a) of the American Fisheries Act (46 U.S.C. 12102 
note), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(B) by striking ``or the use'' and all 
        that follows in such paragraph and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``or the exercise of rights under loan or mortgage covenants by 
        a mortgagee eligible to be a preferred mortgagee under section 
        31322(a) of this title, provided that a mortgagee not eligible 
        to own a vessel with a fishery endorsement may only operate such 
        a vessel to the extent necessary for the immediate safety of the 
        vessel or for repairs, drydocking or berthing changes.''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (4) and renumbering the remaining 
        paragraph accordingly.

    (b) Section 31322(a)(4) of title 46, United States Code, as amended 
by section 202(b) of the American Fisheries Act (Public Law 105-277, 
division C, title II) is amended by striking paragraph (4)(B) and all 
that follows in such paragraph and inserting in lieu thereof the 
following:

[[Page 115 STAT. 169]]

                    ``(B) a state or federally chartered financial 
                institution that is insured by the Federal Deposit 
                Insurance Corporation;
                    ``(C) a farm credit lender established under title 
                12, chapter 23 of the United States Code;
                    ``(D) a commercial fishing and agriculture bank 
                established pursuant to State law;
                    ``(E) a commercial lender organized under the laws 
                of the United States or of a State and eligible to own a 
                vessel under section 12102(a) of this title; or
                    ``(F) a mortgage trustee under subsection (f) of 
                this section.''.

    (c) Section 31322 of title 46, United States Code is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(f)(1) A mortgage trustee may hold in trust, for an individual or 
entity, an instrument or evidence of indebtedness, secured by a mortgage 
of the vessel to the mortgage trustee, provided that the mortgage 
trustee--
            ``(A) is eligible to be a preferred mortgagee under 
        subsection (a)(4), subparagraphs (A)-(E) of this section;
            ``(B) is organized as a corporation, and is doing business, 
        under the laws of the United States or of a State;
            ``(C) is authorized under those laws to exercise corporate 
        trust powers;
            ``(D) is subject to supervision or examination by an 
        official of the United States Government or a State;
            ``(E) has a combined capital and surplus (as stated in its 
        most recent published report of condition) of at least 
        $3,000,000; and
            ``(F) meets any other requirements prescribed by the 
        Secretary.

    ``(2) If the beneficiary under the trust arrangement is not a 
commercial lender, a lender syndicate or eligible to be a preferred 
mortgagee under subsection (a)(4), subparagraphs (A)-(E) of this 
section, the Secretary must determine that the issuance, assignment, 
transfer, or trust arrangement does not result in an impermissible 
transfer of control of the vessel to a person not eligible to own a 
vessel with a fishery endorsement under section 12102(c) of this title.
    ``(3) A vessel with a fishery endorsement may be operated by a 
mortgage trustee only with the approval of the Secretary.
    ``(4) A right under a mortgage of a vessel with a fishery 
endorsement may be issued, assigned, or transferred to a person not 
eligible to be a mortgagee of that vessel under this section only with 
the approval of the Secretary.
    ``(5) The issuance, assignment, or transfer of an instrument or 
evidence of indebtedness contrary to this subsection is voidable by the 
Secretary.
    ``(g) For purposes of this section a `commercial lender' means an 
entity primarily engaged in the business of lending and other financing 
transactions with a loan portfolio in excess of $100,000,000, of which 
not more than 50 per centum in dollar amount consists of loans to 
borrowers in the commercial fishing industry, as certified to the 
Secretary by such lender.
    ``(h) For purposes of this section a `lender syndicate' means an 
arrangement established for the combined extension of credit of not less 
than $20,000,000 made up of four or more entities

[[Page 115 STAT. 170]]

that each have a beneficial interest, held through an agent, under a 
trust arrangement established pursuant to subsection (f), no one of 
which may exercise powers thereunder without the concurrence of at least 
one other unaffiliated beneficiary.''.
    (d) <<NOTE: 46 USC 12102 note.>> Section 31322 of title 46, United 
States Code as amended in this section, and as amended by section 202(b) 
of the American Fisheries Act (Public Law 105-277, division C, title II) 
shall not take effect until April 1, 2003, nor shall the Secretary of 
Transportation, in determining whether a vessel owner complies with the 
requirements of section 12102(c) of title 46, United States Code, 
consider the citizenship status of a lender, in its capacity as a lender 
with respect to that vessel owner, until after April 1, 2003.

    (e)(1) Section 213(g) of the American Fisheries Act (Public Law 105-
277, division C, title II) is <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>> amended by--
            (A) striking ``October 1, 2001'' both places it appears;
            (B) striking ``such date'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``or if the percentage of foreign ownership in the vessel is 
        increased after the effective date of this subsection''; and
            (C) striking ``such vessel'' the first time it appears and 
        inserting ``their ownership or mortgage interest in such vessel 
        on that date'' in lieu thereof.

    (2) Section <<NOTE: Effective date. 16 USC 1851 note.>> 213(g) of 
the American Fisheries Act (Public Law 105-277, division C, title II) 
shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 2203. (a) Section 20(a)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
631 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) to pay for small business development center 
                grants as mandated or directed by Congress.''.

    (b) Section 21(a)(4)(C)(v)(II) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
648(a)(4)(C)(v)(II), is amended by inserting ``, or accompanying report 
language,'' after ``in appropriations Acts''.
    Sec. 2204. Section 633 of Public Law <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2762A-
112.>> 106-553 is amended with respect to a grant of $2,000,000 for 
Promesa Enterprises in the Bronx, New York, by inserting the words 
``financially or otherwise'' after ``to assist community-based 
businesses''.

                                CHAPTER 3

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                              FEDERAL FUNDS

   Federal Payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                                Columbia

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For a Federal contribution to the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia for the Excel Institute Adult Education Program, 
$1,000,000, of which $250,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
appropriation ``Federal Payment for Plan to Simplify Employee 
Compensation Systems'' in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
2001 (Public Law 106-522; 114 Stat. 2444).

[[Page 115 STAT. 171]]

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                   Governmental Direction and Support

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Governmental Direction and Support'', 
$5,400,000 from local funds for increases in natural gas costs.
    Of the funds appropriated under this heading for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2001, in the District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2001, approved November 22, 2000 (Public Law 106-522; 114 Stat. 
2447), $250,000 to simplify employee compensation systems are rescinded.

                   Economic Development and Regulation

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Development and 
Regulation'', $1,000,000 from local funds for the implementation of the 
New E-Conomy Transformation Act of 2000, (D.C. Act 13-543), and $624,820 
for the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs for the purposes 
of D.C. Code, sec. 5-513: Provided, That the Department shall transfer 
all local funds resulting from the lapse of personnel vacancies, caused 
by transferring Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs employees 
into Neighborhood Stabilization Officer positions without the filling of 
the resultant vacancies, into the general fund, of these funds an amount 
not to exceed $60,000 may be used to implement the provisions in D.C. 
Bill 13-646, the Abatement and Condemnation of Nuisance Properties 
Omnibus Amendment Act of 2000, pertaining to the prevention of the 
demolition by neglect of historic properties: Provided further, That the 
fees established and collected pursuant to D.C. Bill 13-646 shall be 
identified, and an accounting provided, to the Committee on Consumer and 
Regulatory Affairs of the Council of the District of Columbia.

                        Public Safety and Justice

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Public Safety and Justice'', 
$8,901,000 from local funds to be allocated as follows: $2,800,000 is 
for the Metropolitan Police Department of which $800,000 is for the 
speed camera program and $2,000,000 is for the Fraternal Order of Police 
arbitration award and the Fair Labor Standards Act liability; $5,940,000 
is for the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department of which 
$5,540,000 is for pre-tax payments for pension, health and life 
insurance premiums and $400,000 is for the fifth fire fighter on trucks 
initiative; and $161,000 is for the Child Fatality Review Committee 
established pursuant to the Child Fatality Review Committee 
Establishment Emergency Act of 2001 (D.C. Act 14-40) and the Child 
Fatality Review Committee Establishment Temporary Act of 2001 (D.C. Bill 
14-165).
    In addition, of all funds in the District of Columbia Antitrust Fund 
established pursuant to section 2 of the District of Columbia Antitrust 
Act of 1980 (D.C. Law 3-169; D.C. Code, sec. 28-4516) an amount not to 
exceed $52,000, of all funds in the Antifraud Fund established pursuant 
to section 820 of the District of Columbia

[[Page 115 STAT. 172]]

Procurement Practices Act of 1985, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law 
6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 1-1188.20) an amount not to exceed $5,500, and of 
all funds in the District of Columbia Consumer Protection Fund 
established pursuant to section 1402 of the District of Columbia Budget 
Support Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (D.C. Law 13-172; D.C. Code, sec. 28-
3911) an amount not to exceed $43,000, are hereby made available for the 
use of the Office of the Corporation Counsel of the District of Columbia 
until September 30, 2001, in accordance with the statutes that 
established these funds.
    Of the funds appropriated under this heading in the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001, approved November 22, 2000 (Public 
Law 106-522), $131,000 for Taxicab Inspectors are rescinded.

                         Public Education System

    For an additional amount for ``Public Education System'', $1,000,000 
from local funds for the State Education Office for a census-type audit 
of the student enrollment of each District of Columbia Public School and 
of each public charter school and $12,000,000 from local funds for the 
District of Columbia Public Schools to conduct the 2001 summer school 
session.
    In addition, section 108(b) of the District of Columbia Public 
Education Act, Public Law 89-791 as amended (sec. 31-1408, D.C. Code), 
is amended by adding a new sentence at the end of the subsection, which 
states: ``In addition, any proceeds and interest accruing thereon, which 
remain from the sale of the former radio station WDCU in an escrow 
account of the District of Columbia Financial Management and Assistance 
Authority for the benefit of the University of the District of Columbia, 
shall be used for the University of the District of Columbia's Endowment 
Fund. Such proceeds may be invested in equity based securities if 
approved by the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia.''.

                         Human Support Services

    For an additional amount for ``Human Support Services'', $28,000,000 
from local funds to be allocated as follows: $15,000,000 for expansion 
of the Medicaid program; $4,000,000 to increase the local share for 
Disproportionate Share to Hospitals (DSH) payments; $3,000,000 for the 
Disability Compensation Fund; $1,000,000 for the Office of Latino 
Affairs for Latino Community Education grants; and $5,000,000 for the 
Children Investment Trust.

                              Public Works

    For an additional amount for ``Public Works'', $131,000 from local 
funds for Taxicab Inspectors.

                        FINANCING AND OTHER USES

                          Workforce Investments

    For expenses associated with the workforce investments program, 
$40,500,000 from local funds.

[[Page 115 STAT. 173]]

                             Wilson Building

    For an additional amount for ``Wilson Building'', $7,100,000 from 
local funds.

                       ENTERPRISE AND OTHER FUNDS

          Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct

    For an additional amount for ``Water and Sewer Authority and the 
Washington Aqueduct'', $2,151,000 from local funds for the Water and 
Sewer Authority for initiatives associated with complying with 
stormwater legislation and proposed right-of-way fees.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2301. Report by the Mayor. The Mayor of the District of 
Columbia shall provide the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and the 
House Committee on Government Reform with a report on the specific 
authority necessary to carry out the responsibilities transferred to the 
Chief Financial Officer in a non-control year, outlined in section 155 
of Public Law 106-522, the Fiscal Year 2001 District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, and responsibilities outlined in Bill 14-254, passed 
by the Council of the District of Columbia on July 10, 2001 relating to 
the transition of responsibilities under Public Law 104-8, the District 
of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 
1995, within 45 days of the enactment of this Act.

                                CHAPTER 4

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

 flood control, mississippi river and tributaries, arkansas, illinois, 
        kentucky, louisiana, mississippi, missouri, and tennessee

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control, Mississippi River and 
Tributaries, Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, 
Missouri, and Tennessee'', for emergency expenses due to flooding and 
other natural disasters, $9,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   operation and maintenance, general

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, General'', 
$86,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That using 
$8,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to repair, restore, 
and clean up Corps' projects and facilities, dredge navigation channels, 
restore and clean out area streams, provide emergency streambank 
protection, restore other crucial public infrastructure (including sewer 
and water facilities), document flood impacts, and undertake other flood 
recovery efforts

[[Page 115 STAT. 174]]

deemed necessary and advisable by the Chief of Engineers due to the July 
2001 flooding in Southern and Central West Virginia: Provided further, 
That using $1,900,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of 
the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to 
undertake the project authorized by section 518 of Public Law 106-53, at 
full Federal expense.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary for emergency flood control, hurricane, and 
shore protection activities, as authorized by section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act of August 18, 1941, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             Energy Programs

                  Non-Defense Environmental Management

    For an additional amount for ``Non-Defense Environmental 
Management'', $11,950,000, to remain available until expended.

             Uranium Facilities Maintenance and Remediation

    For an additional amount for ``Uranium Facilities Maintenance and 
Remediation'', $30,000,000, to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment 
Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Power Marketing Administrations

 construction, rehabilitation, operation and maintenance, western area 
                          power administration

    For an additional amount for ``Construction, Rehabilitation, 
Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power Administration'', 
$1,578,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That these 
funds shall be non-reimbursable.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2401. Of the amounts appropriated under the heading ``Operation 
and Maintenance, General'' under title I of the Energy and Water 
Development Appropriations Act, 2001 (enacted by Public Law 106-377; 114 
Stat. 1441 A-62), $500,000 made available for the Chickamauga Lock, 
Tennessee, shall be available for completion of the feasibility study 
for Chickamauga Lock, Tennessee.
    Sec. 2402. Authorization to Accept Prepayment of Obligations. (a) In 
General.--Notwithstanding section 213 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 
1982 (43 U.S.C. 390mm), the Bureau of Reclamation may accept prepayment 
for all remaining repayment obligations under Contract I78r-423, 
Amendment 4 (referred to in this section as the ``Contract'') entered 
into with the United States.
    (b) Contractual Obligations.--If full prepayment of all remaining 
repayment obligations under the Contract is offered--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior shall accept the 
        prepayment; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 175]]

            (2) on acceptance by the Secretary of the prepayment all 
        land covered by the Contract shall not be subject to the 
        ownership and full cost pricing limitation under Federal 
        reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 
        1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
        U.S.C. 371 et seq.)).

    Sec. 2403. Inclusion of Renal Cancer as Basis for Benefits Under the 
Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000. 
(a) Section 3621(17) of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness 
Compensation Program Act of 2000 (title XXXVI of the Floyd D. Spence 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted by 
Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-502)) <<NOTE: 42 USC 7384l.>> is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Renal cancers.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.  42 USC 7384l note.>> This section shall 
be effective on October 1, 2001.

                                CHAPTER 5

                      BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                child survival and disease programs fund

                         (including rescission)

    For an additional amount for ``Child Survival and Disease Programs 
Fund'', $100,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
this amount may be made available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, for a United States contribution to a global trust fund to 
combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis.
    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2001, and prior Acts, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                       OTHER BILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                          economic support fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2001, and prior Acts, $10,000,000 are rescinded.

                     GENERAL PROVISION--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2501. The final proviso in section 526 of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2000 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(2) of Public Law 106-113), 
as amended, <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 1501A-89.>>  is hereby repealed, and the 
funds identified by such proviso shall be made available pursuant to the 
authority of section 526 of Public law 106-429.

[[Page 115 STAT. 176]]

                                CHAPTER 6

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                        Bureau of Land Management

                    management of lands and resources

    For an additional amount for ``Management of Lands and Resources'', 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended, to address increased 
permitting responsibilities related to energy needs.

                 United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                              construction

    For an additional amount for ``Construction'', $17,700,000, to 
remain available until expended, to repair damages caused by floods, ice 
storms, and earthquakes in the States of Washington, Illinois, Iowa, 
Minnesota, Missouri, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.

                          National Park Service

                        united states park police

    For an additional amount for ``United States Park Police'', 
$1,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002, for unbudgeted 
increases in pension costs for retired United States Park Police 
officers.

                        Bureau of Indian Affairs

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Operation of Indian Programs'', 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended, for electric power 
operations and related activities at the San Carlos Irrigation Project, 
of which such amounts as necessary may be transferred to other 
appropriations accounts for repayment of advances previously made for 
such power operations.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                      forest and rangeland research

    For an additional amount for ``Forest and Rangeland Research'', 
$1,400,000, to remain available until expended, to carry out research 
and development activities to arrest, control, eradicate, and prevent 
the spread of sudden oak death syndrome.

[[Page 115 STAT. 177]]

                       state and private forestry

    For an additional amount for ``State and Private Forestry'', 
$22,000,000, to remain available until expended, to repair damages 
caused by ice storms in the States of Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas, and 
for emergency pest suppression and prevention on Federal, State and 
private lands.
    For an additional amount for ``State and Private Forestry'', 
$750,000 to be provided to the Kenai Peninsula Borough Spruce Bark 
Beetle Task Force for emergency response and $1,750,000 to be provided 
to the Municipality of Anchorage for emergency fire fighting response 
and preparedness to respond to wildfires in spruce bark beetle infested 
forests, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such amounts 
shall be provided as direct lump sum payments within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act.

                         national forest system

    For an additional amount for ``National Forest System'', 
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended, to repair damages 
caused by ice storms in the States of Arkansas and Oklahoma and to 
address illegal cultivation of marijuana in California and Kentucky.

                   capital improvement and maintenance

                         (including rescission)

    Of the funds appropriated in title V of Public Law 105-83 for the 
purposes of section 502(e) of that Act, the following amounts are 
rescinded: $1,000,000 for snow removal and pavement preservation and 
$4,000,000 for pavement rehabilitation.
    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance'', $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes of section 502(e) of Public Law 105-83.
    For an additional amount for ``Capital Improvement and Maintenance'' 
to repair damage caused by ice storms in the States of Arkansas and 
Oklahoma, $4,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2601. Of the funds appropriated to ``Operation of the National 
Park System'' in Public Law 106-291, $200,000 for completion of a 
wilderness study at Apostle Islands National Lakeshore, Wisconsin, shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 2602. (a) The unobligated balances as of September 30, 2001, of 
the funds transferred to the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 
section 311 of chapter 3 of division A of the Miscellaneous 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554) for 
maintenance, protection, or preservation of the land and interests in 
land described in section 3 of the Minuteman Missile National Historic 
Site Establishment Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-115), are rescinded.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subsection (a) shall be effective on 
September 30, 2001.

    (c) The amount rescinded pursuant to subsection (a) is appropriated 
to the Secretary of the Interior for the purposes specified in such 
subsection, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 178]]

    Sec. 2603. Pursuant to title VI of the Steens Mountain Cooperative 
Management and Protection Act, Public Law 106-399, the Bureau of Land 
Management may transfer such sums as are necessary to complete the 
individual land exchanges identified under title VI from unobligated 
land acquisition balances.
    Sec. 2604. Section 338 of Public Law 106-291 <<NOTE: 16 USC 2104 
note.>>  is amended by striking ``105-825'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof: ``105-277''.

    Sec. 2605. Section 2 of <<NOTE: 5 USC 5542 note.>> Public Law 106-
558 is amended by striking subsection (b) in its entirety and inserting 
in lieu thereof:

    ``(b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.''.
    Sec. 2606. Federal Highway Administration emergency relief for 
federally-owned roads, made available to the Forest Service as Federal-
aid highways funds, may be used to reimburse Forest Service accounts for 
expenditures previously completed only to the extent that such 
expenditures would otherwise have qualified for the use of Federal-aid 
highways funds.
    Sec. 2607. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $2,000,000 
provided to the Forest Service in Public Law 106-291 for the Region 10 
Jobs in the Woods program shall be advanced as a direct lump sum payment 
to Ketchikan Public Utilities within 30 days of enactment: Provided, 
That such funds shall be used by Ketchikan Public Utilities specifically 
for hiring workers for the purpose of removing timber within the right-
of-way for the Swan Lake-Lake Tyee Intertie.
    Sec. 2608. Section 122(a) of Public Law 106-291 <<NOTE: 25 USC 
13f.>>  is amended by:
            (1) inserting ``hereafter'' after ``such amounts''; and
            (2) striking ``June 1, 2000'' and inserting ``June 1 of the 
        preceding fiscal year''.

    Sec. 2609. Section 351 of Public Law 105-277 <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 2681-
302.>>  is amended by striking ``prior to September 30, 2001'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof: ``prior to September 30, 2004''.

                                CHAPTER 7

                           DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

                         (including rescissions)

    For an additional amount to carry out chapter 4 of the Workforce 
Investment Act, $25,000,000 to be available for obligation for the 
period April 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002.
    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554), 
$65,000,000 are rescinded including $25,000,000 available for obligation 
for the period April 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002 to carry out section 
169 of the Workforce Investment Act, and $40,000,000 available for 
obligation for the period July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002 for Safe 
Schools/Healthy Students and Incumbent Workers.
    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and

[[Page 115 STAT. 179]]

Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public 
Law 106-554), for Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities, 
$177,500,000 available for obligation for the period July 1, 2001 
through June 30, 2002 are rescinded: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $110,000,000 is from amounts allotted under 
section 132(a)(2)(B), and $67,500,000 is from the National Reserve under 
section 132(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall 
reduce each State's program year 2001 allotment under section 
132(a)(2)(B) by applying an allocation methodology that distributes the 
rescission based on each State's share of unexpended balances as of June 
30, 2001: Provided further, That the effective date of the rescission 
shall be at the time the Secretary determines, based on the best 
information available, each State's unexpended balance as of June 30, 
2001.

               Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    Of the funds made available under this heading in the Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554), 
$490,000 are authorized to remain available through September 30, 2002.

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                      health resources and services

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554) is <<NOTE: 114 
Stat. 2763A-12.>> amended by striking ``$226,224,000'' and inserting 
``$224,724,000''.

    The provision for Northeastern University is amended by striking 
``doctors'' and inserting ``allied health care professionals''.

                      National Institutes of Health

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Of the amount appropriated in the Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554) for the National 
Library of Medicine, $7,115,000 is hereby transferred to Buildings and 
Facilities, National Institutes of Health, for purposes of the design of 
a National Library of Medicine facility.

        Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

               substance abuse and mental health services

    For carrying out the Public Health Service Act with respect to 
mental health services, $6,500,000 for maintenance, repair,

[[Page 115 STAT. 180]]

preservation, and protection of the Federally owned facilities, 
including the Civil War Cemetery, at St. Elizabeths Hospital, which 
shall remain available until expended.

                Administration for Children and Families

                    low income home energy assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Low Income Home Energy Assistance'' 
under section 2602(e) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 
(42 U.S.C. 8621(e)), $300,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That these funds are for the home energy assistance needs of 
one or more States, as authorized by section 2604(e) of that Act and 
notwithstanding the designation requirement of section 2602(e) of such 
Act.

                         DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                            education reform

    In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.R. 4577 (Public Law 106-554; House Report 106-1033), in 
title III of the explanatory language on H.R. 5656 (Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001), in the matter relating to Technology 
Innovation Challenge Grants under the heading ``Education Reform'', the 
amount specified for Western Kentucky University to improve teacher 
preparation programs that help incorporate technology into the school 
curriculum shall be deemed to be $400,000.

                     education for the disadvantaged

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554) is <<NOTE: 114 
Stat. 2763A-31.>> amended by striking ``$7,332,721,000'' and inserting 
``$7,237,721,000''.

    For an additional amount (to the corrected amount under this 
heading) for ``Education for the Disadvantaged'' to carry out part A of 
title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in 
accordance with the eighth proviso under that heading, $161,000,000, 
which shall become available on July 1, 2001, and shall remain available 
through September 30, 2002.

                               impact aid

    Of the $12,802,000 available under the heading ``Impact Aid'' in the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public 
Law 106-554) for construction under section 8007 of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965, $6,802,000 shall be used as directed in 
the first proviso under that heading, and the remaining $6,000,000 shall 
be distributed to eligible local educational agencies under section 
8007, as such section was in effect on September 30, 2000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 181]]

                            special education

    In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.R. 4577 (Public Law 106-554; House Report 106-1033), in 
title III of the explanatory language on H.R. 5656 (Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001), in the matter relating to Special Education 
Research and Innovation under the heading ``Special Education'', the 
provision for training, technical support, services and equipment 
through the Early Childhood Development Project in the Mississippi Delta 
Region shall be applied by substituting ``Easter Seals--Arkansas'' for 
``the National Easter Seals Society''.

             education research, statistics, and improvement

    The matter under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-554) is <<NOTE: 114 
Stat. 2763A-39.>> amended by striking ``$139,624,000'' and inserting 
``$139,853,000''.

    In the statement of the managers of the committee of conference 
accompanying H.R. 4577 (Public Law 106-554; House Report 106-1033), in 
title III of the explanatory language on H.R. 5656 (Departments of 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2001), in the matter relating to the Fund for the 
Improvement of Education under the heading ``Education Research, 
Statistics and Improvement''--
            (1) the aggregate amount specified shall be deemed to be 
        $139,853,000;
            (2) the amount specified for the National Mentoring 
        Partnership in Washington, D.C. for establishing the National E-
        Mentoring Clearinghouse shall be deemed to be $461,000; and
            (3) the provision specifying $1,275,000 for one-to-one 
        computing shall be deemed to read as follows:
            ``$1,275,000--NetSchools Corporation, to provide one-to-one 
        e-learning pilot programs for Dover Elementary School in San 
        Pablo, California, Belle Haven Elementary School in East Menlo 
        Park, California, East Rock Magnet School in New Haven, 
        Connecticut, Reid Elementary School in Searchlight, Nevada, and 
        McDermitt Combined School in McDermitt, Nevada;''.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2701. (a) Section 117 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and 
Technical Education Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 2327) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``that are not receiving 
        Federal support under the Tribally Controlled College or 
        University Assistance Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) or 
        the Navajo Community College Act (25 U.S.C. 640a et seq.)'' 
        after ``institutions'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding ``institutional support 
        of'' after ``for'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by inserting ``that is not receiving 
        Federal support under the Tribally Controlled College or 
        University Assistance Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) or 
        the Navajo Community College Act (25 U.S.C. 640a et seq.)'' 
        after ``institution''; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 182]]

            (4) in subsection (e)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (B);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of 
                subparagraph (C) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) institutional support of vocational and 
                technical education.''. 

    (b) <<NOTE: 20 USC 2327 note.>>  Effective Date.--
            (1) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect 
        on the date of enactment of this section.
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> The amendments made by 
        subsection (a) shall apply to grants made for fiscal year 2001 
        only if this section is enacted before August 4, 2001.

    Sec. 2702. Corporation for Public Broadcasting Authorization of 
Appropriations.--Subsection (k)(1) of section 396 of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396) is amended--
            (1) by re-designating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as 
        subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
                    ``(D) In addition to any amounts authorized under 
                any other provision of this or any other Act to be 
                appropriated to the Fund, $20,000,000 are hereby 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Fund 
                (notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection) 
                specifically for transition from the use of analog to 
                digital technology for the provision of public 
                broadcasting services for fiscal year 2001.''.

    Sec. 2703. Impact Aid. (a) Learning Opportunity Threshold 
Payments.--Section 8003(b)(3)(B)(iv) of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(3)(B)(iv)) (as amended by 
section 1806(b)(2)(C) of the Impact Aid Reauthorization Act of 2000 (as 
enacted into law by section 1 of Public Law 106-398)) is amended by 
inserting ``or less than the average per-pupil expenditure of all the 
States'' after ``of the State in which the agency is located''.
    (b) Funding.--The Secretary of Education shall make payments under 
section 8003(b)(3)(B)(iv) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
of 1965 from the $882,000,000 available under the heading ``Impact Aid'' 
in title III of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted 
into law by Public Law 106-554) for basic support payments under section 
8003(b).

                                CHAPTER 8

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        Congressional Operations

                        House of Representatives

      Payments to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For <<NOTE: Rhonda B. Sisisky.>> payment to Rhonda B. Sisisky, widow 
of Norman Sisisky, late a Representative from the Commonwealth of 
Virginia, $145,100.

[[Page 115 STAT. 183]]

    For <<NOTE: Barbara Cheney.>> payment to Barbara Cheney, heir of 
John Joseph Moakley, late a Representative from the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, $145,100.

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses of the House of 
Representatives, $61,662,000, as follows:

 Members' Representational Allowances, Standing Committees, Special and 
      Select, Committee on Appropriations, Allowances and Expenses

    For an additional amount for Members' Representational Allowances, 
Standing Committees, Special and Select, Committee on Appropriations, 
and Allowances and Expenses, $44,214,000, with any allocations to such 
accounts subject to approval by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives: Provided, That $9,776,000 of such amount shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 2002.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For an additional amount for compensation and expenses of officers 
and employees, as authorized by law, $17,448,000, including: for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Clerk, $3,150,000; and for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, 
$14,298,000, of which $11,181,000 shall be for salaries, expenses, and 
temporary personal services of House Information Resources and 
$3,000,000 shall be for separate upgrades for committee rooms: Provided, 
That $500,000 of the funds provided to the Office of the Chief 
Administrative Officer for separate upgrades for committee rooms may be 
transferred to the Office of the Architect of the Capitol for the same 
purpose, subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives: Provided further, That all of the funds 
provided under this heading shall remain available until expended.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 2801. (a) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (as 
enacted into law by reference under section 1(a)(2) of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2001; <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2763A-99.>> Public Law 106-
554), is amended in the item relating to ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--salaries, officers and employees'' by striking 
``not more than $3,500, of which not more than $2,500 is for the Family 
Room'' and inserting ``not more than $11,000, of which not more than 
$10,000 is for the Family Room''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The amendment made by subsection (a) 
shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2001.

[[Page 115 STAT. 184]]

                               JOINT ITEMS

                          CAPITOL POLICE BOARD

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For an additional amount for the Capitol Police Board for salaries 
of officers, members and employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime and Government contributions for health, retirement, Social 
Security, and other applicable employee benefits, $514,000, of which 
$257,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of 
the House, and $257,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That of the amounts appropriated under this heading, 
such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred between the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives and the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For an additional amount for the Capitol Police Board for necessary 
expenses of the Capitol Police, including security equipment and 
installation, supplies, materials, and meals, beverages and water for 
officers or civilian employees of the Capitol Police while performing 
duties during an extraordinary event or emergency response incident as 
determined by the Capitol Police Board, $486,000, to be disbursed by the 
Capitol Police Board or their delegee, to remain available until 
September 30, 2002.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 2802. <<NOTE: 40 USC 207e.>> (a)(1) Any funds received by the 
Capitol Police as reimbursement for law enforcement assistance from any 
Federal, State, or local government agency (including any agency of the 
District of Columbia) shall be deposited in the United States Treasury 
for credit to the appropriation for ``general expenses'' under the 
heading ``Capitol Police Board'', or ``security enhancements'' under the 
heading ``Capitol Police Board''.

    (2) Funds deposited under this subsection may be expended by the 
Capitol Police Board for any authorized purpose, including overtime pay 
expenditures relating to law enforcement assistance to any Federal, 
State, or local government agency (including any agency of the District 
of Columbia), and shall remain available until expended.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall take effect on the 
date of enactment of this Act and shall apply to fiscal year 2001 and 
each fiscal year thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Compliance, as authorized by section 305 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $35,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 185]]

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For an additional amount for authorized printing and binding for the 
Congress and the distribution of Congressional information in any 
format; printing and binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and 
binding of Government publications authorized by law to be distributed 
to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and distribution of 
Government publications authorized by law to be distributed without 
charge to the recipient, $9,900,000.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$6,000,000, to remain available until expended, for air-conditioning and 
lighting systems.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For an additional amount for salaries and expenses, Library of 
Congress, $600,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
collaborative Library of Congress telecommunications project with the 
United States Military Academy.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2803. Section 101(a) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after the second sentence the following: 
        ``The President pro tempore emeritus of the Senate is authorized 
        to appoint and fix the compensation of one individual 
        consultant, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily 
        rate of compensation not in excess of that specified in the 
        first sentence of this subsection.''; and
            (2) in the last sentence by inserting ``President pro 
        tempore emeritus,'' after ``President pro tempore,''.

    Sec. 2804. The Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission Act, Public 
Law 106-173, <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 101.>>  February 25, 2000 is 
hereby amended in section 7 by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
following:

    ``(e) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of the 
Commission, the Librarian of Congress shall provide to the Commission, 
on a reimbursable basis, administrative support services necessary for 
the Commission to carry out its responsibilities under this Act, 
including disbursing funds available to the Commission, and computing 
and disbursing the basic pay for Commission personnel.''.
    Sec. 2805. Notwithstanding any limitation in 31 U.S.C. sec. 1553(b) 
and 1554, the Architect of the Capitol may use current year 
appropriations to reimburse the Department of the Treasury for prior 
year water and sewer services payments otherwise chargeable to closed 
accounts.
    Sec. 2806. <<NOTE: 15 USC 1024 note.>> That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, and specifically section 5(a) of the Employment 
Act of 1946 (15

[[Page 115 STAT. 186]]

U.S.C. 1024(a)), the Members of the Senate to be appointed by the 
President of the Senate shall for the duration of the One Hundred 
Seventh Congress, be represented by six Members of the majority party 
and five Members of the minority party.

                                CHAPTER 9

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Office of the Secretary

                             rental payments

                              (rescission)

    Of the available balances under this heading, $440,000 are 
rescinded.

                               Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating expenses'', $92,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

               acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For an additional amount for ``Acquisition, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $4,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the 
repair of Coast Guard facilities damaged during the Nisqually earthquake 
or for costs associated with moving the affected Coast Guard assets to 
an alternative site within Seattle, Washington.

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts made available under this heading in Public Law 106-
69 and Public Law 106-346, $12,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Aviation Administration

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 49 U.S.C. 48103, as 
amended, $30,000,000 are rescinded.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                      emergency highway restoration

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the costs associated with the long term improvement, 
restoration, or replacement of highways including seismically-vulnerable 
highways recently damaged during the Nisqually earthquake, $27,600,000, 
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, other than the Mass Transit 
Account, and to remain available until

[[Page 115 STAT. 187]]

expended: Provided, That of the amount made available under this head, 
$3,800,000 shall be for the Alaskan Way Viaduct in Seattle, Washington; 
$9,000,000 shall be for the Magnolia Bridge in Seattle, Washington; 
$9,100,000 shall be for U.S. 119 over Pine Mountain in Letcher County, 
Kentucky; $4,700,000 shall be for the Lake Street Access to I-35 West 
project in Minneapolis, Minnesota; $500,000 shall be for the Interstate 
55 interchange project at Weaver Road and River Des Peres in Missouri; 
and $500,000 shall be for damage resulting from tornadoes, flooding and 
icestorms in northwest Wisconsin including Bayfield and Douglas 
counties.

                          federal-aid highways

                          (highway trust fund)

                              (rescissions)

    Of the unobligated balances made available under Public Law 94-280, 
Public Law 95-599, Public Law 97-424, Public Law 100-17, Public Law 101-
516, Public Law 102-143, Public Law 102-240, and Public Law 103-311, 
$15,918,497 are rescinded.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                United States-Canada Railroad Commission

    For necessary expenses of the joint United States-Canada Railroad 
Commission to study the feasibility of connecting the rail system in 
Alaska to the North American continental rail system, $2,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 2901. (a) Item 143 in the table under the heading ``Capital 
Investment Grants'' in title I of the Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 
2681-456) is amended by striking ``Northern New Mexico park and ride 
facilities'' and inserting ``Northern New Mexico park and ride 
facilities and State of New Mexico, Buses and Bus-Related Facilities''.
    (b) Item 167 in the table under the heading ``Capital Investment 
Grants'' in title I of the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-69; 113 Stat. 1006) is 
amended by striking ``Northern New Mexico Transit Express/Park and Ride 
buses'' and inserting ``Northern New Mexico park and ride facilities and 
State of New Mexico, Buses and Bus-Related Facilities''.

                               CHAPTER 10

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'' to reimburse 
any agency of the Department of the Treasury or other Federal agency for 
costs of providing operational and perimeter

[[Page 115 STAT. 188]]

security at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, 
$59,956,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $49,576,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2002.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For an additional amount for ``Processing, Assistance, and 
Management'', $66,200,000, to remain available through September 30, 
2002.

    Federal Payment to Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
                National Environmental Policy Foundation

    Of the funds made available under this heading in H.R. 5658 of the 
106th Congress, as incorporated by reference in Public Law 106-554, up 
to $1,000,000 may be transferred and made available for necessary 
expenses incurred pursuant to section 6(7) of the Morris K. Udall 
Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and Native American 
Public Policy Act of 1992 (20 U.S.C. 5604(7)), to remain available until 
expended.

                    GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS CHAPTER

    Sec. 21001. Section 413 of H.R. 5658, as incorporated by reference 
in Public Law 106-554, <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2763A-147.>> is amended to read 
as follows:

    ``Sec. 413. Designation <<NOTE: Federal buildings and 
facilities.>> of the Paul Coverdell Building. The recently-completed 
classroom building constructed on the Core Campus of the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia, shall be known and 
designated as the `Paul Coverdell Building'.''.

    Sec. 21002. Of unobligated balances as of September 30, 2000, 
appropriated in, and further authorized through section 511 of Public 
Law 106-58, and under the headings, ``Internal Revenue Service, 
Processing, Assistance, and Management'', ``Tax Law Enforcement'', and 
``Earned Income Tax Compliance'', $18,000,000 is hereby rescinded, 
effective September 30, 2001, as follows: $9,805,000 from ``Processing, 
Assistance, and Management'', $6,952,000 from ``Tax Law Enforcement'', 
and $1,243,000 from ``Earned Income Tax Credit Compliance Initiative''.

                               CHAPTER 11

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                        compensation and pensions

    For an additional amount for ``Compensation and pensions'', 
$589,413,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 189]]

                          readjustment benefits

    For an additional amount for ``Readjustment benefits'', 
$347,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                     medical and prosthetic research

    Of the amount provided for ``Medical and prosthetic research'' in 
the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, 
and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-377), 
up to $3,500,000 may be used for associated travel expenses.

                       Departmental Administration

                       general operating expenses

                           (transfer of funds)

    Of the amounts available in the Medical care account, not more than 
$19,000,000 may be transferred not later than September 30, 2001, to the 
General operating expenses account, for the administrative expenses of 
processing compensation and pension claims, of which up to $5,000,000 
may be used for associated travel expenses.

               DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                        Public and Indian Housing

                        housing certificate fund

                              (rescission)

    $114,300,000 is rescinded from unobligated balances remaining from 
funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
under this heading or the heading ``Annual contributions for assisted 
housing'' or any other heading for fiscal year 2000 and prior years: 
Provided, That any such balances governed by reallocation provisions 
under the statute authorizing the program for which the funds were 
originally appropriated shall not be available for this rescission.

                  native american housing block grants

    Of the funds provided under this heading within the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development in fiscal year 2001 and prior years, 
$5,000,000 shall be made available for emergency housing, housing 
assistance, and other assistance to address the mold problem at the 
Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation: Provided, That the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency shall provide technical assistance to the Turtle 
Mountain Band of Chippewa with respect to the acquisition of emergency 
housing and related issues on the Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation.

[[Page 115 STAT. 190]]

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                         (including rescission)

    Except for the amount made available for the cost of guaranteed 
loans as authorized under section 108 of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, the unobligated balances available in Public 
Law 106-377 for use under this heading in only fiscal year 2001 are 
rescinded as of the date of enactment of this provision.
    The amount of the unobligated balances rescinded in the preceding 
paragraph is appropriated for the activities specified in Public Law 
106-377 for which such balances were available, to remain available 
until September 30, 2003.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended with respect to the amount 
made available for Rio Arriba County, New Mexico by striking the words 
``for an environmental impact statement'' and inserting the words ``for 
a regional landfill''.
    The referenced statement of the managers in the seventh undesignated 
paragraph under this heading in title II of Public Law 106-377 is deemed 
to be amended by striking ``$500,000 for Essex County, Massachusetts for 
its wastewater and combined sewer overflow program;'' in reference to an 
appropriation for Essex County, and inserting ``$500,000 to the 
following Massachusetts communities for wastewater and combined sewer 
overflow infrastructure improvements: Beverly ($32,000); Peabody 
($32,000); Salem ($32,000); Lynn ($32,000); Newburyport ($32,000); 
Gloucester ($32,000); Marblehead ($30,000); Danvers ($30,000); Ipswich 
($17,305); Amesbury ($17,305); Manchester ($17,305); Essex ($17,305); 
Rockport ($17,305); and Haverhill ($161,475);''.
    The referenced statement of the managers in the seventh undesignated 
paragraph under this heading in title II of Public Law 106-377 is deemed 
to be amended by striking ``$100,000 to Essex County, Massachusetts for 
cyberdistrict economic development initiatives;'' in reference to an 
appropriation for Essex County, and inserting ``$75,000 to improve 
cyber-districts in Haverhill, Massachusetts and $25,000 to improve 
cyber-districts in Amesbury, Massachusetts;''.
    The referenced statement of the managers in the seventh undesignated 
paragraph under this heading in title II of Public Law 106-377 is deemed 
to be amended by striking ``women's and children's hospital'' in 
reference to an appropriation for Hackensack University Medical Center, 
and inserting ``the construction of the Audrey Hepburn Children's 
House'': Provided, That the referenced statement of the managers in the 
seventh undesignated paragraph under the heading ``Community development 
block grants'' in title II of Public Law 106-74 is deemed to be amended 
by striking ``rehabilitation and conversion of part of the NYNEX 
building into a parking garage'' in reference to an appropriation for 
the City of Syracuse, New York, and inserting ``the demolition and 
revitalization of the Montgomery Street/Columbus Circle National 
Register District Area''.

[[Page 115 STAT. 191]]

                     Federal Housing Administration

             fha--mutual mortgage insurance program account

                           (transfer of funds)

    Of the amounts available for administrative expenses and 
administrative contract expenses under the headings, ``FHA--mutual 
mortgage insurance program account'', ``FHA--general and special risk 
program account'', and ``Salaries and expenses, management and 
administration'' in title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2001, as enacted by Public Law 106-377, not to exceed $8,000,000 is 
available to liquidate deficiencies incurred in fiscal year 2000 in the 
``FHA--mutual mortgage insurance program account''.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                        Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                          salaries and expenses

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the provisions of 
section 401 of chapter 4 of appendix D of Public Law 106-554 shall not 
apply to Arlington National Cemetery (the Cemetery): Provided, That 
water and sewer services expenses charged to the Cemetery in excess of 
that amount which the Cemetery has to date paid for such services shall, 
for the purposes of section 104 of chapter 4 of appendix D of Public Law 
106-554, be paid for out of appropriations accounts of the Department of 
Defense other than such account for the Cemetery: Provided further, That 
in satisfying the provisions of section 401 of chapter 4 of appendix D 
of Public Law 106-554 for fiscal year 2002 and future years, the water 
and sewer services expenses of the Cemetery shall be that amount as 
determined by metering within the Cemetery: Provided further, That to 
the extent the Department of the Treasury has heretofore withdrawn funds 
of the Cemetery pursuant to section 401 of chapter 4 of appendix D of 
Public Law 106-554, such amount shall be reimbursed to the Cemetery by 
the Department of the Treasury from funds withdrawn from appropriations 
accounts of the Department of Defense other than such account for the 
Cemetery.

                     Environmental Protection Agency

                  environmental programs and management

    From the amounts appropriated for Cortland County, New York and 
Central New York Watersheds under this heading in title III of Public 
Law 106-377 and in future Acts, the Administrator is authorized to award 
grants for work on New York watersheds: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the funds provided to the Salt Lake 
Organizing Committee (SLOC) under this heading in Public Law 106-377 are 
available for grants for environmental programs and operations as set 
forth in the November 2000 Environment Annual Report of the Salt Lake 
2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 192]]

Olympic Winter Games: Provided further, That the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall make such funds available within 30 days of 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That actual costs incurred by 
the SLOC for activities consistent with the aforementioned report 
undertaken by the SLOC subsequent to enactment of Public Law 106-377 
shall be eligible for reimbursement under this grant and shall not 
require a grant deviation by the Agency.

                   state and tribal assistance grants

    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended by striking all after the 
words ``Beloit, Wisconsin'' in reference to item number 236, and 
inserting the words ``extension of separate sanitary sewers and 
extension of separate storm sewers''.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended by striking all after the 
words ``Limestone County Water and Sewer Authority in Alabama for'' in 
reference to item number 13, and inserting the words ``drinking water 
improvements'': Provided, That the referenced statement of the managers 
under this heading in Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended by 
striking all after the words ``Clinton, Tennessee for'' in reference to 
item number 211, and inserting the words ``wastewater and sewer system 
infrastructure improvements''.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended by striking the words ``the 
City of Hartselle'' in reference to item number 11, and inserting the 
words ``Hartselle Utilities''.
    The referenced statement of the managers under this heading in 
Public Law 106-377 is deemed to be amended by striking the words 
``Florida Department of Environmental Protection'' in reference to item 
number 48, and inserting the words ``Southwest Florida Water Management 
District''.
    Under this heading in title III of Public Law 106-377, strike 
``$3,628,740,000'' and insert ``$3,641,341,386''.

              National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                           human space flight

    Notwithstanding the proviso under the heading, ``Human space 
flight'', in Public Law 106-74, $40,000,000 of the amount provided 
therein shall be available for preparations necessary to carry out 
future research supporting life and micro-gravity science and 
applications.

                                TITLE III

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 3001. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 3002. United States-China Security Review Commission. There are 
hereby appropriated, out of any funds in the

[[Page 115 STAT. 193]]

Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,700,000, to remain available 
until expended, to the United States-China Security Review Commission.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2001''.

    Approved July 24, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2216 (S. 1077):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-102 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-148 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-33 accompanying S. 1077 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            June 20, considered and passed House.
            July 10, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 1077.
            July 20, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            July 24, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>