[107th Congress Public Law 353]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ353.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 2982]]

Public Law 107-353
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the conveyance of Forest Service facilities and lands 
   comprising the Five Mile Regional Learning Center in the State of 
  California to the Clovis Unified School District, to authorize a new 
   special use permit regarding the continued use of unconveyed lands 
    comprising the Center, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 
                         2002 -  [H.R. 3401]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: California Five Mile 
Regional Learning Center Transfer Act.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``California Five Mile Regional 
Learning Center Transfer Act''.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE AND SPECIAL USE AGREEMENT, FIVE MILE REGIONAL 
            LEARNING CENTER, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Conveyance.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the 
Clovis Unified School District of California all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of National Forest 
System land consisting of 27.10 acres located within the southwest \1/4\ 
of section 2, township 2 north, range 15 east, Mount Diablo base and 
meridian, California, which has been utilized as the Five Mile Regional 
Learning Center by the school district since 1989 pursuant to a special 
use permit (Holder No. 2010-02) to provide natural resource conservation 
education to California youth. The conveyance shall include all 
structures, improvements, and personal property shown on original map 
#700602 and inventory dated February 1, 1989.
    (b) Special Use Agreement.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into negotiations 
with the Clovis Unified School District to enter into a new special use 
permit for the approximately 100 acres of National Forest System land 
that, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is being used by the 
school district pursuant to the permit described in subsection (a), but 
is not included in the conveyance under such subsection.
    (c) Reversion.--In the event that the Clovis Unified School District 
discontinues its operation of the Five Mile Regional Learning Center, 
title to the real property conveyed under subsection (a) shall revert 
back to the United States.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2983]]

    (d) Costs and Mineral Rights.--The conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be for a nominal cost. Notwithstanding such subsection, the 
conveyance does not include the transfer of mineral rights.

    Approved December 17, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3401:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-574 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            July 22, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>