[107th Congress Public Law 366]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ366.107]


[[Page 3029]]

               CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION AMENDMENTS

[[Page 116 STAT. 3030]]

Public Law 107-366
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend the Central Utah Project Completion Act to clarify the 
 responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior with respect to the 
 Central Utah Project, to redirect unexpended budget authority for the 
   Central Utah Project for wastewater treatment and reuse and other 
purposes, to provide for prepayment of repayment contracts for municipal 
 and industrial water delivery facilities, and to eliminate a deadline 
      for such prepayment. <<NOTE: Dec. 19, 2002 -  [H.R. 4129]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO THE CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACT.

    (a) Treatment of Investigation Costs.--Section 201(b) of the Central 
Utah Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 4607) is amended following 
paragraph (2) by inserting the following: ``All amounts previously 
expended in planning and developing the projects and features described 
in this subsection including amounts previously expended for 
investigation of power features in the Bonneville Unit shall be 
considered non-reimbursable and non-returnable.''.
    (b) Clarification of Secretarial Responsibilities.--Section 201(e) 
of the Central Utah Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 4608) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``identified in this Act'' and 
                inserting ``identified in this title and the Act of 
                April 11, 1956 (chapter 203; 70 Stat. 110 et seq.), 
                popularly known as the Colorado River Storage Project 
                Act,'';
                    (B) by inserting ``relating to the Bonneville Unit 
                of the Central Utah Project including oversight for all 
                phases of the Bonneville Unit, the administration of all 
                prior and future contracts, operation and maintenance of 
                previously constructed facilities'' before ``and may not 
                delegate'';
                    (C) by striking ``his responsibilities under this 
                Act'' and inserting ``such responsibilities''; and
                    (D) by striking the period after ``Reclamation'' and 
                inserting: ``, except through the pilot management 
                program hereby authorized. The pilot management program 
                will exist for a period not to exceed 5 years and shall 
                provide a mechanism for the Secretary and the District 
                to create a mutually acceptable organization within the 
                Bureau of Reclamation to assist the Secretary in his 
                responsibilities for the long-term management of the 
                Bonneville Unit. Such pilot management program may be 
                extended indefinitely

[[Page 116 STAT. 3031]]

                by mutual agreement between the Secretary and the 
                District.'';
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``technical'' before ``services''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``for engineering and construction 
                work'' before ``on any project features''; and
            (3) by inserting at the end thereof the following new 
        sentence: ``These provisions shall not affect the 
        responsibilities of the Bureau of Reclamation and the Western 
        Area Power Administration regarding all matters relating to all 
        Colorado River Storage Project power functions, including all 
        matters affecting the use of power revenues, power rates and 
        ratemaking.''.

    (c) Municipal and Industrial Water.--Section 202(a)(1)(B) of the 
Central Utah Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 4608) is amended in the 
last sentence by inserting ``and municipal and industrial water'' after 
the word ``basin''.
    (d) Use of Unexpended Budget Authority.--Section 202(c) of the 
Central Utah Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 4611) is amended to read 
as follows: ``The Secretary is authorized to utilize all unexpended 
budget authority for units of the Central Utah Project up to 
$300,000,000 and the balance of such budget authority in excess of this 
amount is deauthorized. Such $300,000,000 may be used to provide 65 
percent Federal share pursuant to section 204, to acquire water and 
water rights for project purposes including instream flows, to complete 
project facilities authorized in this title and title III, to implement 
water conservation measures under section 207, including use of reverse 
osmosis membrane technologies, water recycling, and conjunctive use, to 
stabilize high mountain lakes and appurtenant facilities, to develop 
power, and for other purposes. In addition, funds may be provided by the 
Commission for fish and wildlife purposes. The District shall comply 
with the provisions of sections 202(a)(1), 205(b), and Title VI with 
respect to the features to be provided for in this subsection.''.
    (e) Prepayment of repayment.--Section 210 of the Central Utah 
Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 4624) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``or any additional or supplemental 
                repayment contract'' after ``1985,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``of the Central Utah Project'' 
                after ``water delivery facilities''; and
            (2) by striking ``The District shall exercise'' and all that 
        follows through the end of that sentence.

SEC. 2. USE OF PROJECT FACILITIES FOR NONPROJECT WATER.

    The Secretary of the Interior may enter into contracts with the 
Provo River Water Users Association or any of its member unit 
contractors for water from Provo River, Utah, under the Act of February 
21, 1911 (43 U.S.C. 523), for--
            (1) the impounding, storage, and carriage of nonproject 
        water for domestic, municipal, industrial, and other beneficial 
        purposes, using facilities associated with the Provo River 
        Project, Utah; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 3032]]

            (2) the exchange of water among Provo River Project 
        contractors, for the purposes set forth in paragraph (1), using 
        facilities associated with the Provo River Project, Utah.

    Approved December 19, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4129 (S. 2475):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-554 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Oct. 1, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>