[107th Congress Public Law 361]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ361.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 3020]]

Public Law 107-361
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain public land 
within the Sand Mountain Wilderness Study Area in the State of Idaho to 
resolve an occupancy encroachment dating back to 1971. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 
                         2002 -  [H.R. 2818]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, SAND MOUNTAIN WILDERNESS STUDY AREA, IDAHO.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--Notwithstanding section 603(c) of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the 
Secretary of the Interior may convey to the owner of the Sand Hills 
Resort in the State of Idaho (in this section referred to as the ``Sand 
Hills Resort''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to a parcel of land consisting of approximately 10.23 acres of 
public land in the Sand Mountain Wilderness Study Area (#ID 35-3) of the 
Bureau of Land Management in the State of Idaho, as more fully described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The public land to be conveyed under 
subsection (a) is lot 8 in section 19, township 8 north, range 40 east, 
Boise meridian, Idaho.
    (c) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of the land 
under subsection (a), the Sand Hills Resort shall pay to the Secretary 
an amount equal to the fair market value of the land, as valued by 
qualified land appraisal.
    (d) Exemption From Interim Management Policy.--To facilitate the 
conveyance authorized by subsection (a), the land to be conveyed is 
exempt from all requirements of the Interim Management Policy for Lands 
Under Wilderness Review of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in 
connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) of section 1 as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.

    Approved December 17, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2818:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-440 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            May 7, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>