[107th Congress Public Law 180]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ180.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 581]]

Public Law 107-180
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize certain Federal officials with responsibility for the 
    administration of the criminal justice system of the District of 
 Columbia to serve on and participate in the activities of the District 
    of Columbia Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: May 20, 2002 -  [H.R. 2305]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Criminal Justice 
Coordinating Council Restructuring Act of 2002.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Criminal Justice Coordinating Council 
Restructuring Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZING FEDERAL OFFICIALS ADMINISTERING CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
            SYSTEM OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA TO PARTICIPATE IN CRIMINAL 
            JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL.

    (a) In General.--Each of the individuals described in subsection (b) 
is authorized to serve on the District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
Coordinating Council, participate in the Council's activities, and take 
such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the individual's 
duties as a member of the Council.
    (b) Individuals Described.--The individuals described in this 
subsection are as follows:
            (1) The Director of the Court Services and Offender 
        Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia.
            (2) The Director of the District of Columbia Pretrial 
        Services Agency.
            (3) The United States Attorney for the District of Columbia.
            (4) The Director of the Bureau of Prisons.
            (5) The chair of the United States Parole Commission.
            (6) The Director of the United States Marshals Service.

SEC. 3. ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING 
            COUNCIL.

    Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 60 days after the end of each 
calendar year, the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Coordinating 
Council shall prepare and submit to the President, Congress, and each of 
the entities of the District of Columbia government and Federal 
Government whose representatives serve on the Council a report 
describing the activities carried out by the Council during the year.

SEC. 4. FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION FOR COORDINATING <<NOTE: Appropriation 
            authorization.>>  COUNCIL.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2002 and 
each succeeding fiscal year such sums as may be necessary for a Federal 
contribution to the District of Columbia to cover

[[Page 116 STAT. 582]]

the costs incurred by the District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
Coordinating Council.

SEC. 5. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL 
            DEFINED.

    In this Act, the ``District of Columbia Criminal Justice 
Coordinating Council'' means the entity established by the Council of 
the District of Columbia under the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council 
for the District of Columbia Establishment Act of 2001.

    Approved May 20, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2305:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-145 (Comm. on Governmental Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Dec. 4, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    May 7, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>