[107th Congress Public Law 221]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ221.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 1333]]

Public Law 107-221
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the acquisition of additional lands for inclusion in the 
  Fort Clatsop National Memorial in the State of Oregon, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 21, 2002 -  [H.R. 2643]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Fort Clatsop National Memorial 
Expansion Act of 2002.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 16 USC 450mm note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fort Clatsop National Memorial 
Expansion Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 450mm-1 note.>> 

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Fort Clatsop National Memorial is the only unit of the 
        National Park System solely dedicated to the Lewis and Clark 
        Expedition.
            (2) In 1805, the members of the Lewis and Clark Expedition 
        built Fort Clatsop at the mouth of the Columbia River near 
        Astoria, Oregon, and they spent 106 days at the fort waiting for 
        the end of winter and preparing for their journey home.
            (3) In 1958, Congress enacted Public Law 85-435 authorizing 
        the establishment of Fort Clatsop National Memorial for the 
        purpose of commemorating the culmination, and the winter 
        encampment, of the Lewis and Clark Expedition following its 
        successful crossing of the North American continent.
            (4) The 1995 General Management Plan for Fort Clatsop 
        National Memorial, prepared with input from the local community, 
        recommends the expansion of the memorial to include the trail 
        used by expedition members to access the Pacific Ocean from the 
        fort and the shore and forest lands surrounding the fort and 
        trail to protect their natural settings.
            (5) Expansion of Fort Clatsop National Memorial requires 
        Federal legislation because the size of the memorial is 
        currently limited by statute to 130 acres.
            (6) Congressional action to allow for the expansion of Fort 
        Clatsop National Memorial to include the trail to the Pacific 
        Ocean would be timely and appropriate before the start of the 
        bicentennial celebration of the Lewis and Clark Expedition 
        planned to take place during the years 2004 through 2006.

SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF FORT CLATSOP NATIONAL MEMORIAL, OREGON.

    (a) Revised Boundaries.--Section 2 of Public Law 85-435 (16 U.S.C. 
450mm-1) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Initial Designation of Lands.--'' 
        before ``The Secretary'';

[[Page 116 STAT. 1334]]

            (2) by striking ``coast:'' and all that follows through the 
        end of the sentence and inserting ``coast.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

    ``(b) Authorized Expansion.--The Fort Clatsop National Memorial 
shall also include the lands depicted on the map entitled `Fort Clatsop 
Boundary Map', numbered `405-80026C-CCO', and dated June 1996.
    ``(c) Maximum Designated Area.--The total area designated as the 
Fort Clatsop National Memorial shall not exceed 1,500 acres.''.
    (b) Authorized Acquisition Methods.--Section 3 of Public Law 85-435 
(16 U.S.C. 450mm-2) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Acquisition Methods.--'' before 
        ``Within''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Limitation.--The lands (other than corporately owned 
timberlands) depicted on the map referred to in section 2(b) may be 
acquired by the Secretary of the Interior only by donation or purchase 
from willing sellers.''.
    (c) Memorandum of Understanding.--Section 4 of Public Law 85-435 (16 
U.S.C. 450mm-3) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Establishment'' and all that follows 
        through ``its establishment,'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Administration.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Memorandum of Understanding.--If the owner of corporately 
owned timberlands depicted on the map referred to in section 2(b) agrees 
to enter into a sale of such lands as a result of actual condemnation 
proceedings or in lieu of condemnation proceedings, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the owner 
regarding the manner in which such lands will be managed after 
acquisition by the United States.''.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: Washington.>> STUDY OF STATION CAMP SITE AND OTHER AREAS 
            FOR POSSIBLE INCLUSION IN NATIONAL MEMORIAL.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a study of the area near 
McGowan, Washington, where the Lewis and Clark Expedition first camped 
after reaching the Pacific Ocean and known as the ``Station Camp'' site, 
as well as the Megler Rest Area and Fort Canby State Park, to determine 
the suitability, feasibility, and national significance of these sites 
for inclusion in the National

[[Page 116 STAT. 1335]]

Park System. The study shall be conducted in accordance with section 8 
of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5).

    Approved August 21, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2643 (S. 423):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-456 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-69 accompanying S. 423 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            July 8, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 1, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>