[107th Congress Public Law 66]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ066.107]


[[Page 485]]

          ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 486]]

Public Law 107-66
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for energy and water development for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2002, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 
                         2001 -  [H.R. 2311]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United <<NOTE: Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2002.>>  
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, for energy 
and water development, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and 
related purposes.

                         General Investigations

    For expenses necessary for the collection and study of basic 
information pertaining to river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects, restudy of authorized projects, 
miscellaneous investigations, and, when authorized by laws, surveys and 
detailed studies and plans and specifications of projects prior to 
construction, $154,350,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use funds appropriated herein to continue 
preconstruction engineering and design of the Murrieta Creek, 
California, flood protection and environmental enhancement project and 
is further directed to continue with the project in accordance with cost 
sharing established for the Murrieta Creek project in Public Law 106-
377: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through 
the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use the feasibility report 
prepared under the authority of section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 
1948, as amended, as the basis for the Rock Creek-Keefer Slough Flood 
Control Project, Butte County, California, and is further directed to 
use funds appropriated herein for preconstruction engineering and design 
of the project: Provided

[[Page 115 STAT. 487]]

 further, That in conducting the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction 
Study, Albuquerque, New Mexico, the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, shall include an evaluation of flood 
damage reduction measures that would otherwise be excluded from the 
feasibility analysis based on policies regarding the frequency of 
flooding, the drainage areas, and the amount of runoff: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to conduct studies for flood damage reduction, 
environmental protection, environmental restoration, water supply, water 
quality, and other purposes in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, and shall 
provide a comprehensive plan for the development, conservation, 
disposal, and utilization of water and related land resources, for flood 
damage reduction and allied purposes, including the determination of the 
need for a reservoir to satisfy municipal and industrial water supply 
needs: Provided further, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That using 
$1,000,000 of the funds provided
herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of
Engineers, is directed to conduct a comprehensive watershed study
at full Federal expense to provide a framework for implementing
activities to improve environmental quality of the Lake Tahoe Basin
and the Secretary shall submit a feasibility level report within
30 months of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That appendix D, 
chapter 5 of Public Law 106-554 <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2763A-189.>>  is 
amended in the last sentence under the subheading titled ``General 
Investigations'' by striking ``a cost shared feasibility study of'' and 
inserting ``planning, engineering and design activities for''.

                          Construction, General

    For the prosecution of river and harbor, flood control, shore 
protection, and related projects authorized by laws; and detailed 
studies, and plans and specifications, of projects (including those for 
development with participation or under consideration for participation 
by States, local governments, or private groups) authorized or made 
eligible for selection by law (but such studies shall not constitute a 
commitment of the Government to construction), $1,715,951,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary for the 
Federal share of construction costs for facilities under the Dredged 
Material Disposal Facilities program shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, as authorized by Public Law 104-303; and of 
which such sums as are necessary pursuant to Public Law 99-662 shall be 
derived from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, for one-half of the costs 
of construction and rehabilitation of inland waterways projects, 
including rehabilitation costs for the Lock and Dam 11, Mississippi 
River, Iowa; Lock and Dam 12, Mississippi River, Iowa; Lock and Dam 24, 
Mississippi River, Illinois and Missouri; Lock and Dam 3, Mississippi 
River, Minnesota; and London Locks and Dam, Kanawha River, West 
Virginia, projects; and of which funds are provided for the following 
projects in the amounts specified:
            San Timoteo Creek (Santa Ana River Mainstem), Cali-
        fornia, $8,000,000;
            Indianapolis Central Waterfront, Indiana, $9,000,000;
            Southern and Eastern Kentucky, Kentucky, $4,000,000;
            Clover Fork, City of Cumberland, Town of Martin, Pike County 
        (including Levisa Fork and Tug Fork Tributaries), Bell County, 
        Floyd County, Martin County, and Harlan County,

[[Page 115 STAT. 488]]

        Kentucky, elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy 
        River and Upper Cumberland River, Kentucky, $15,450,000; and
            Lower Mingo County (Kermit), Upper Mingo County (including 
        County Tributaries), Wayne County, and McDowell County, West 
        Virginia, elements of the Levisa and Tug Forks of the Big Sandy 
        River and Upper Cumberland River project, $5,900,000:

Provided, That using $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein, the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to modify the Carr Creek Lake, Kentucky, project at full 
Federal expense to provide additional water supply storage for the Upper 
Kentucky River Basin: Provided further, That with $1,200,000 of the 
funds appropriated herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed to undertake design deficiency repairs 
to the Bois Brule Drainage and Levee District, Missouri, project, 
authorized and constructed under the authority of the Flood Control Act 
of 1936 with cost sharing consistent with the original project 
authorization: Provided further, That in accordance with section 332 of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, the Secretary of the Army 
is directed to increase the authorized level of protection of the Bois 
Brule Drainage and Levee District, Missouri, project from 50 years to 
100 years using $700,000 of the funds appropriated herein, and the 
project costs allocated to the incremental increase in the level of 
protection shall be cost shared consistent with section 103(a) of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1986, notwithstanding section 202(a) 
of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996: Provided further, That 
using $200,000 of the funds provided herein, the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to conduct, at full 
Federal expense, technical studies of individual ditch systems 
identified by the State of Hawaii, and to assist the State in 
diversification by helping to define the cost of repairing and 
maintaining selected ditch systems: Provided further, That the Secretary 
of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use 
$1,300,000 of the funds appropriated herein to continue construction of 
the navigation project at Kaumalapau Harbor, Hawaii: Provided further, 
That with $800,000 of the funds provided herein, the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue 
preparation of a General Reevaluation Report of the Oak Island, Caswell 
Beach, and Holden Beach segments of the Brunswick County Beaches project 
in North Carolina: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use $500,000 to 
undertake the Bowie County Levee Project, which is defined as 
Alternative B Local Sponsor Option, in the Corps of Engineers document 
entitled Bowie County Local Flood Protection, Red River, Texas, Project 
Design Memorandum No. 1, Bowie County Levee, dated April 1997: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army is directed to use $4,000,000 of 
the funds provided herein for the Dam Safety and Seepage/Stability 
Correction Program to continue construction of seepage control features 
at Waterbury Dam, Vermont: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, using up to $200,000 of the 
funds provided herein, is directed to complete the Aloha-Rigolette, 
Louisiana, project at full Federal

[[Page 115 STAT. 489]]

expense: Provided further, That using $500,000 of the funds provided 
herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to proceed with the Shoalwater Bay Shoreline, 
Washington, project: Provided further, That all studies for the 
Shoalwater Bay Shoreline project shall be cost shared in the same 
proportion as the construction implementation costs: Provided further, 
That using $2,500,000 of the funds provided herein, the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to proceed with 
a final design and initiate construction for the repair and replacement 
of the Jicarilla Municipal Water System in the town of Dulce, New 
Mexico: Provided further, That using $750,000 of the funds provided 
herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to proceed with the Missouri River Restoration 
Project and that erosion control measures implemented shall be primarily 
through nonstructural means such as planting of native vegetation, 
buffer strips, conservation easements, setbacks, and agricultural best 
management practices: Provided further, That with $10,000,000 of the 
funds provided herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed to construct the Dallas Floodway 
Extension, Texas, project, including the Cadillac Heights feature, 
generally in accordance with the Chief of Engineers report dated 
December 7, 1999: Provided further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  That 
the deadline for the report required under section 154(g) of Public Law 
106-554 is extended to December 31, 2002: Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to use unexpended funds appropriated in Public Law 105-62, 
under the heading Construction, General for Salyersville, Kentucky, to 
construct additional recreation improvements at the Buckhorn Lake, 
Kentucky, project: Provided further, That using $1,000,000 of the funds 
provided herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to initiate construction on the Seward Harbor, 
Alaska, project in accordance with the Report of the Chief of Engineers 
dated June 8, 1999 and the economic justification contained therein: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed to use up to $900,000 of funds 
previously appropriated to reimburse the City of Venice, Florida, for 
the costs incurred by the City prior to October 1998 for work 
accomplished by the City related to the relocation of the stormwater 
outfalls and the construction of the artificial reef that comprises an 
integral part of the project for beach nourishment, in Sarasota County, 
Florida: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use funds appropriated 
herein, for emergency bank stabilization measures at Lakeshore Park in 
Knoxville, Tennessee: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to continue the 
Dickenson County Detailed Project Report as generally defined in Plan 4 
of the Huntington District Engineer's Draft Supplement to the Section 
202 General Plan for Flood Damage Reduction dated April 1997, including 
all Russell Fork tributary streams within the County and special 
considerations as may be appropriate to address the unique relocations 
and resettlement needs for the flood prone communities within the 
County: Provided further, That, with respect to the environmental 
infrastructure project in Lebanon, New Hampshire, for which funds are 
made available under this heading, the non-Federal interest shall 
receive credit toward the

[[Page 115 STAT. 490]]

non-Federal share of the cost of the project for work performed before 
the date of execution of the project cooperation agreement, if the 
Secretary determines the work is integral to the project: Provided 
further, That, for the Raritan River Basin, Green Brook Sub-Basin, New 
Jersey, project, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to implement the locally preferred plan for the 
element in the western portion of Middlesex Borough, New Jersey, which 
includes the buyout of up to 22 homes, the flood proofing of four 
commercial buildings along Prospect Place and Union Avenue, and the 
buyout of up to three commercial buildings along Raritan and Lincoln 
Avenues, at a total estimated cost of $15,000,000, with an estimated 
Federal cost of $11,500,000 and an estimated non-Federal cost of 
$3,500,000.

 Flood Control, Mississippi River and Tributaries, Arkansas, Illinois, 
        Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee

    For expenses necessary for prosecuting work of flood control, rescue 
work, repair, restoration, or maintenance of flood control projects 
threatened or destroyed by flood, as authorized by law (33 U.S.C. 702a 
and 702g-1), $345,992,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, 
is directed to convey to the Board of Mississippi Levee Commissioners 
any and all fee owned real property interests deemed excess to Army 
needs for disposal by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at its Casting 
Plant and its Bank Grading and Mat Loading Fleeting Area located in 
Greenville, Mississippi. This real property shall be used by the Board 
of Mississippi Levee Commissioners for the operation and maintenance of 
the Mississippi River and Tributaries Project as it deems necessary.

                   Operation and Maintenance, General

    For expenses necessary for the preservation, operation, maintenance, 
and care of existing river and harbor, flood control, and related works, 
including such sums as may be necessary for the maintenance of harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality or other public agency, 
outside of harbor lines, and serving essential needs of general commerce 
and navigation; surveys and charting of northern and northwestern lakes 
and connecting waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removal 
of obstructions to navigation, $1,874,803,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which such sums as become available in the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662, may be derived 
from that Fund, and of which such sums as become available from the 
special account established by the Land and Water Conservation Act of 
1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460l), may be derived from that account for 
construction, operation, and maintenance of outdoor recreation 
facilities: Provided, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers, is directed, within funds available for the Mobile 
Harbor, Alabama, project, to remove, transport, dispose, and remediate 
contaminated sediments in and adjacent to the Federal navigation 
projects for the Arlington Channel and the Garrows Bend Channel at 
Federal expense, and a non-Federal sponsor shall provide all necessary 
lands, easements, rights-of-way, and relocations that may be required 
for the disposal of

[[Page 115 STAT. 491]]

dredged material: Provided further, That using funds appropriated 
herein, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to perform cultural resource mitigation and 
recreation improvements at Waco Lake, Texas, at full Federal expense 
notwithstanding the provisions of the Water Supply Act of 1958: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to use funds appropriated herein to grade the 
basin within the Hansen Dam feature of the Los Angeles County Drainage 
Area, California, project to enhance and maintain flood capacity and to 
provide for future use of the basin for compatible purposes consistent 
with the Master Plan, including recreation and environmental 
restoration: Provided further, That the Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use funds appropriated 
herein to fully investigate the development of an upland disposal site 
recycling program on the Black Warrior and Tombigbee Rivers, Alabama-
Coosa Rivers, and the Mobile River projects: Provided further, That of 
funds appropriated herein for the Intracoastal Waterway, Delaware River 
to Chesapeake Bay, Delaware and Maryland, the Secretary of the Army, 
acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to reimburse the 
State of Delaware for normal operation and maintenance costs incurred by 
the State of Delaware for the SR1 Bridge from station 58+00 to station 
293+00 between May 12, 1997 and September 30, 2002. Reimbursement costs 
shall not exceed $1,277,000: Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is directed to use funds 
appropriated herein to remove and reinstall the docks and causeway, in 
kind, and continue breakwater repairs at Astoria East Boat Basin, 
Oregon: Provided further, That using funds appropriated herein, the 
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is 
directed to dredge a channel from the mouth of Wheeling Creek to Tunnel 
Green Park in Wheeling, West Virginia: Provided further, That the 
project for the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint Rivers 
Navigation, authorized by section 2 of the River and Harbor Act of March 
2, 1945 (Public Law 79-14) and modified by the first section of the 
River and Harbor Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 635, chapter 595), is modified to 
authorize the Secretary, as part of navigation maintenance activities, 
to develop and implement a plan to be integrated into the long-term 
dredged material management plan being developed for the Corley Slough 
reach, as required by conditions of the State of Florida water quality 
certification, for periodically removing sandy dredged material from the 
disposal area known as Site 40, located at mile 36.5 of the Apalachicola 
River, and from other disposal sites that the Secretary may determine to 
be needed for the purpose of reuse of the disposal areas, by 
transporting and depositing the sand for environmentally acceptable 
beneficial uses in coastal areas of Florida to be determined in 
coordination with the State of Florida: Provided further, That the 
Secretary is authorized to acquire all lands, easements, and rights-of-
way that may be determined by the Secretary, in consultation with the 
affected State, to be required for dredged material disposal areas to 
implement a long-term dredge material management 
plan: <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Provided further, That the long-term 
management plan shall be developed in coordination with the State of 
Florida no later than 2 years from the date of enactment of this Act: 
Provided further, That, of the funds herein, $4,900,000 shall be made 
available for these purposes and $8,000,000 shall

[[Page 115 STAT. 492]]

be made available for normal operation and maintenance of the 
Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint Rivers navigation project.

                  Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 107-20, 
$25,000,000 are hereby rescinded.

                           Regulatory Program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $127,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites 
throughout the United States resulting from work performed as part of 
the Nation's early atomic energy program, $140,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                            General Expenses

    For expenses necessary for general administration and related 
functions in the Office of the Chief of Engineers and offices of the 
Division Engineers, activities of the Humphreys Engineer 
Center Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, and 
headquarters support functions at the USACE Finance Center, 
$153,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That no part 
of any other appropriation provided in title I of this Act shall be 
available to fund the activities of the Office of the Chief of Engineers 
or the executive direction and management activities of the division 
offices: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be available 
to support an office of congressional affairs within the executive 
office of the Chief of Engineers.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Appropriations in this title shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $5,000); and during 
the current fiscal year the Revolving Fund, Corps of Engineers, shall be 
available for purchase (not to exceed 100 for replacement only) and hire 
of passenger motor vehicles.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

    Sec. 101. (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army 
shall convey to the Blue Township Fire District, Blue Township, Kansas, 
by quitclaim deed and without consideration, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of land consisting of 
approximately 4.35 acres located in Pottawatomie County, Tuttle Creek 
Lake, Kansas.
    (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.

[[Page 115 STAT. 493]]

    (c) Reversion.--If the Secretary determines that the property 
conveyed under subsection (a) ceases to be held in public ownership or 
to be used as a site for a fire station, all right, title, and interest 
in and to the property shall revert to the United States, at the option 
of the United States.
    Sec. 102. For those shore protection projects funded in this Act 
which have Project Cooperation Agreements in place, the Secretary of the 
Army is directed to proceed with those projects in accordance with the 
cost sharing specified in the Project Cooperation Agreement: Provided, 
That the Secretary of the Army shall not accept or solicit non-Federal 
voluntary contributions for shore protection work in excess of the 
minimum requirements established by law; except that, when voluntary 
contributions are tendered by a non-Federal sponsor for the prosecution 
of work outside the authorized scope of the Federal project at full non-
Federal expense, the Secretary is authorized to accept said 
contributions.
    Sec. 103. Agreements proposed for execution by the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works or the United States Army Corps of 
Engineers after the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to 
section 4 of the Rivers and Harbor Act of 1915, Public Law 64-291; 
section 11 of the River and Harbor Act of 1925, Public Law 68-585; the 
Civil Functions Appropriations Act, 1936, Public Law 75-208; section 215 
of the Flood Control Act of 1968, as amended, Public Law 90-483; 
sections 104, 203, and 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1986, as amended, Public Law 99-662; section 206 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1992, as amended, Public Law 102-580; section 211 of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1996, Public Law 104-303; and any 
other specific project authority, shall be limited to credits and 
reimbursements per project not to exceed $10,000,000 in each fiscal 
year, and total credits and reimbursements for all applicable projects 
not to exceed $50,000,000 in each fiscal year.
    Sec. 104. St. Georges Bridge, Delaware. None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used to carry out any activity relating to 
closure or removal of the St. Georges Bridge across the Intracoastal 
Waterway, Delaware River to Chesapeake Bay, Delaware and Maryland, 
including a hearing or any other activity relating to preparation of an 
environmental impact statement concerning the closure or removal.
    Sec. 105. The non-Federal interest shall receive credit towards the 
lands, easements, relocations, rights-of-way, and disposal areas 
required for the Lava Hot Springs restoration project in Idaho, and 
acquired by the non-Federal interest before execution of the project 
cooperation agreement: Provided, That the Secretary shall provide credit 
for work only if the Secretary determines such work to be integral to 
the project.
    Sec. 106. Guadalupe River, California. The project for flood 
control, Guadalupe River, California, authorized by section 401 of the 
Water Resources Development Act of 1986, and the Energy and Water 
Development Appropriation Acts of 1990 and 1992, is modified to 
authorize the Secretary to construct the project substantially in 
accordance with the General Reevaluation and Environmental Report for 
Proposed Project Modifications, dated February 2001, at a total cost of 
$226,800,000, with an estimated Federal cost of $128,700,000, and 
estimated non-Federal cost of $98,100,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 494]]

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: 33 USC 59jj.>>  Designation of Nonnavigability for 
Portions of Gloucester County, New Jersey. (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army (referred to in 
        section as the ``Secretary'') shall designate as nonnavigable 
        the areas described in paragraph (3) unless the Secretary, after 
        consultation with local and regional public officials 
        (including local and regional planning organizations), makes 
        a determination that 1 or more projects proposed to be carried 
        out in 1 or more areas described in paragraph (2) are not 
        in the public interest.
            (2) Description of areas.--The areas referred to in 
        paragraph (1) are certain parcels of property situated in the 
        West Deptford Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey, as 
        depicted on Tax Assessment Map #26, Block #328, Lots #1, 1.03, 
        1.08, and 1.09, more fully described as follows:
                    (A) Beginning at the point in the easterly line of 
                Church Street (49.50 feet wide), said beginning point 
                being the following 2 courses from the intersection of 
                the centerline of Church Street with the curved 
                northerly right-of-way line of Pennsylvania-Reading 
                Seashore Lines Railroad (66.00 feet wide)--
                          (i) along said centerline of Church Street N. 
                      11/28'50" E. 38.56 feet; thence
                          (ii) along the same N. 61/28'35" E. 32.31 feet 
                      to the point of beginning.
                    (B) Said beginning point also being the end of the 
                thirteenth course and from said beginning point runs; 
                thence, along the aformentioned Easterly line of Church 
                Street--
                          (i) N. 11/28'50" E. 1052.14 feet; thence
                          (ii) crossing Church Street, N. 34/19'51" W. 
                      1590.16 feet; thence
                          (iii) N. 27/56'37" W. 3674.36 feet; thence
                          (iv) N. 35/33'54" W. 975.59 feet; thence
                          (v) N. 57/04'39" W. 481.04 feet; thence
                          (vi) N. 36/22'55" W. 870.00 feet to a point in 
                      the Pierhead and Bulkhead Line along the 
                      Southeasterly shore of the Delaware River; thence
                          (vii) along the same line N. 53/37'05" E. 
                      1256.19 feet; thence
                          (viii) still along the same, N. 86/10'29" E. 
                      1692.61 feet; thence, still along the same the 
                      following thirteenth courses
                          (ix) S. 67/44'20" E. 1090.00 feet to a point 
                      in the Pierhead and Bulkhead Line along the 
                      Southwesterly shore of Woodbury Creek; thence
                          (x) S. 39/44'20" E. 507.10 feet; thence
                          (xi) S. 31/01'38" E. 1062.95 feet; thence
                          (xii) S. 34/34'20" E. 475.00 feet; thence
                          (xiii) S. 32/20'28" E. 254.18 feet; thence
                          (xiv) S. 52/55'49" E. 964.95 feet; thence
                          (xv) S. 56/24'40" E. 366.60 feet; thence
                          (xvi) S. 80/31'50" E. 100.51 feet; thence
                          (xvii) N. 75/30'00" E. 120.00 feet; thence
                          (xviii) N. 53/09'00" E. 486.50 feet; thence
                          (xix) N. 81/18'00" E. 132.00 feet; thence
                          (xx) S. 56/35'00" E. 115.11 feet; thence

[[Page 115 STAT. 495]]

                          (xxi) S. 42/00'00" E. 271.00 feet; thence
                          (xxii) S. 48/30'00" E. 287.13 feet to a point 
                      in the Northwesterly line of Grove Avenue (59.75 
                      feet wide); thence
                          (xxiii) S. 23/09'50" W. 4120.49 feet; thence
                          (xxiv) N. 66/50'10" W. 251.78 feet; thence
                          (xxv) S. 36/05'20" E. 228.64 feet; thence
                          (xxvi) S. 58/53'00" W. 1158.36 feet to a point 
                      in the Southwesterly line of said River Lane; 
                      thence
                          (xxvii) S. 41/31'35" E. 113.50 feet; thence
                          (xxviii) S. 61/28'35" W. 863.52 feet to the 
                      point of beginning.
                    (C)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), beginning 
                at a point in the centerline of Church Street (49.50 
                feet wide) where the same is intersected by the curved 
                northerly line of Pennsylvania-Reading Seashore Lines 
                Railroad right-of-way (66.00 feet wide), along that 
                Railroad, on a curve to the left, having a radius of 
                1465.69 feet, an arc distance of 1132.14 feet--
                          (I) N. 88/45'47" W. 1104.21 feet; thence
                          (II) S. 69/06'30" W. 1758.95 feet; thence
                          (III) N. 23/04'43" W. 600.19 feet; thence
                          (IV) N. 19/15'32" W. 3004.57 feet; thence
                          (V) N. 44/52'41" W. 897.74 feet; thence
                          (VI) N. 32/26'05" W. 2765.99 feet to a point 
                      in the Pierhead and Bulkhead Line along the 
                      Southeasterly shore of the Delaware River; thence
                          (VII) N. 53/37'05" E. 2770.00 feet; thence
                          (VIII) S. 36/22'55" E. 870.00 feet; thence
                          (IX) S. 57/04'39" E. 481.04 feet; thence
                          (X) S. 35/33'54" E. 975.59 feet; thence
                          (XI) S. 27/56'37" E. 3674.36 feet; thence
                          (XII) crossing Church Street, S. 34/19'51" E. 
                      1590.16 feet to a point in the easterly line of 
                      Church Street; thence
                          (XIII) S. 11/28'50" W. 1052.14 feet; thence
                          (XIV) S. 61/28'35" W. 32.31 feet; thence
                          (XV) S. 11/28'50" W. 38.56 feet to the point 
                      of beginning.
                    (ii) The parcel described in clause (i) does not 
                include the parcel beginning at the point in the 
                centerline of Church Street (49.50 feet wide), that 
                point being N. 11/28'50" E. 796.36 feet, measured along 
                the centerline, from its intersection with the curved 
                northerly right-of-way line of Pennsylvania-Reading 
                Seashore Lines Railroad (66.00 feet wide)--
                          (I) N. 78/27'40" W. 118.47 feet; thence
                          (II) N. 15/48'40" W. 120.51 feet; thence
                          (III) N. 77/53'00" E 189.58 feet to a point in 
                      the centerline of Church Street; thence
                          (IV) S. 11/28'50" W. 183.10 feet to the point 
                      of beginning.

    (b) Limits on Applicability; Regulatory Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The designation under subsection (a)(1) 
        shall apply to those parts of the areas described in subsection 
        (a) that are or will be bulkheaded and filled or otherwise 
        occupied by permanent structures, including marina facilities.

[[Page 115 STAT. 496]]

            (2) Applicable law.--All activities described in paragraph 
        (1) shall be subject to all applicable Federal law, including--
                    (A) the Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1121, chapter 
                425);
                    (B) section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution 
                Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344); and
                    (C) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

    (c) Termination of Designation.--If, on the date that is 20 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, any area or portion of an area 
described in subsection (a)(3) is not bulkheaded, filled, or otherwise 
occupied by permanent structures (including marina facilities) in 
accordance with subsection (b), or if work in connection with any 
activity authorized under subsection (b) is not commenced by the date 
that is 5 years after the date on which permits for the work are issued, 
the designation of nonnavigability under subsection (a)(1) for that area 
or portion of an area shall terminate.
    Sec. 108. Nome Harbor Technical Corrections. Section 101(a)(1) of 
Public Law 106-53 (the Water Resources Development Act of 1999) is 
amended <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 273.>>  by--
            (1) striking ``$25,651,000'' and inserting in its place 
        ``$39,000,000''; and
            (2) striking ``$20,192,000'' and inserting in its place 
        ``$33,541,000''.

    Sec. 109. Section 211 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
2000, Public Law 106-541, <<NOTE: 31 USC 6505 note.>>  is amended by 
adding the following language at the end of subsection (d):

    ``(e) Engineering Research and Development Center.--The Engineering 
Research and Development Center is exempt from the requirements of this 
section.''.
    Sec. 110. Section 514(g) of the Water Resources Development Act of 
1999, Public Law 106-53, <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 342.>>  is amended by 
striking ``fiscal years 2000 and 2001'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``fiscal years 2000 through 2002''.

    Sec. 111. The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of 
Engineers, is directed to modify the pump station intake structure and 
discharge line to preclude ice from interfering with pump operations at 
Fort Fairfield, Maine, flood control project: Provided, That all design 
and construction costs associated with the modifications of the Fort 
Fairfield, Maine, project shall be at Federal expense.
    Sec. 112. Cerrillos Dam, Puerto Rico. The Secretary of the Army 
shall reassess the allocation of Federal and non-Federal costs for 
construction of the Cerrillos Dam, carried out as part of the project 
for flood control, Portugues and Bucana Rivers, Puerto Rico.
    Sec. 113. Study of Corps Capability to Conserve Fish and Wildlife. 
Section 704(b) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 
2263(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) as 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), respectively;
            (2) by striking ``(b) The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:

    ``(b) Projects.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 497]]

            (3) by striking ``The non-Federal share of the cost of any 
        project under this section shall be 25 percent.'' and inserting 
        the following:
            ``(2) Cost sharing.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the cost 
                of any project under this subsection shall be 25 
                percent.
                    ``(B) Form.--The non-Federal share may be provided 
                through in-kind services, including the provision by the 
                non-Federal interest of shell stock material that is 
                determined by the Chief of Engineers to be suitable for 
                use in carrying out the project.
                    ``(C) Applicability.--The non-Federal interest shall 
                be credited with the value of in-kind services provided 
                on or after October 1, 2000, for a project described in 
                paragraph (1) completed on or after that date, if the 
                Secretary determines that the work is integral to the 
                project.''.

    Sec. 114. The flood control project for the Ramapo River at Oakland, 
New Jersey, authorized by section 401(a) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986, Public Law 99-662, as 
amended by section 301(a)(9) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 1996, Public Law 104-33, is modified to authorize the Secretary 
of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to 
construct the project at a total cost of $18,000,000, with an estimated 
Federal cost of $13,500,000 and an estimated non-Federal 
cost of $4,500,000 less any credits allowed under applicable laws.
    Sec. 115. Except for the historic scheduled maintenance dredging in 
the Delaware River, none of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used to operate the dredge McFARLAND other than for urgent dredging, 
emergencies and in support of national defense.
    Sec. 116. The Secretary may not expend funds to accelerate the 
schedule to finalize the Record of Decision for the revision of the 
Missouri River Master Water Control Manual and any associated changes to 
the Missouri River Annual Operating Plan. During consideration of 
revisions to the manual in fiscal year 2002, the Secretary may consider 
and propose alternatives for achieving species recovery other than the 
alternatives specifically prescribed by the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service in the biological opinion of the Service. The Secretary 
shall consider the views of other Federal agencies, non-Federal 
agencies, and individuals to ensure that other congressionally 
authorized purposes are maintained.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                 central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $34,918,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $10,749,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Commission.

[[Page 115 STAT. 498]]

    In addition, for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out related 
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior, $1,310,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute authorized 
functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                       water and related resources

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, Indian tribes, and others, 
$762,531,000, to remain available until expended, of which $14,649,000 
shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund 
and $31,442,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower Colorado 
River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be necessary 
may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund; of which $8,000,000 
shall be for on-reservation water development, feasibility studies, and 
related administrative costs under Public Law 106-163; and of which not 
more than $500,000 is for high priority projects which shall be carried 
out by the Youth Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706: 
Provided, That such transfers may be increased or decreased within the 
overall appropriation under this heading: Provided further, That of the 
total appropriated, the amount for program activities that can be 
financed by the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special 
fee account established by 16 U.S.C. 460l-6a(i) shall be derived from 
that Fund or account: Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 
U.S.C. 395 are available until expended for the purposes for which 
contributed: Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 397a 
shall be credited to this account and are available until expended for 
the same purposes as the sums appropriated under this heading: Provided 
further, That $12,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
deposited in the San Gabriel Basin Restoration Fund established by 
section 110 of division B, title I of Public Law 106-554, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be for remediation in the Central Basin Municipal Water 
District: Provided further, That funds available for expenditure for the 
Departmental Irrigation Drainage Program may be expended by the Bureau 
of Reclamation for site remediation on a non-reimbursable basis: 
Provided further, That section 301 of Public Law 102-250, Reclamation 
States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991, as amended, <<NOTE: 43 USC 
2241.>>  is amended further by inserting ``2001, and 2002'' in lieu of 
``and 2001'': Provided further, That of such funds, not more than 
$1,500,000 shall be available to the Secretary for completion of a 
feasibility study for the Santa Fe-Pojoaque Regional Water System, New 
Mexico: Provided further, That the study shall be completed by September 
30, 2002.

[[Page 115 STAT. 499]]

               bureau of reclamation loan program account

    For the cost of direct loans and/or grants, $7,215,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by the Small Reclamation 
Projects Act of August 6, 1956, as amended (43 U.S.C. 422a-422l): 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $26,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
program for direct loans and/or grants, $280,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of the total sums appropriated, the 
amount of program activities that can be financed by the Reclamation 
Fund shall be derived from that Fund.

                 central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, and habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, $55,039,000, to be derived from such 
sums as may be collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), 3405(f ), and 3406(c)(1) of 
Public Law 102-575, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Bureau of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full 
amount of the additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized 
by section 3407(d) of Public Law 102-575.

                        policy and administration

    For necessary expenses of policy, administration, and related 
functions in the office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until expended, $52,968,000, to be derived from the 
Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377: 
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed four passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. In order to increase opportunities for Indian tribes to 
develop, manage, and protect their water resources, the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, 
is authorized to enter into grants and cooperative agreements with any 
Indian tribe, institution of higher education, national Indian 
organization, or tribal organization pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 6301-6308. 
Nothing in this Act is intended to modify or limit the provisions of the 
Indian Self Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 45 et seq.).

[[Page 115 STAT. 500]]

    Sec. 202. San Gabriel Basin, California. (a) Administration of 
Restoration Fund.--Section 110(a)(2) of the Miscellaneous Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-
554) <<NOTE: 114 Stat. 2763A-223.>>  is amended by striking ``the 
Secretary of the Army'' and inserting ``the Secretary of the Interior''.

    (b) Purposes of Restoration Fund.--Section 110(a)(3)(A) of such Act 
is amended by striking clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting the following:
                          ``(i) to provide grants to the San Gabriel 
                      Basin Water Quality Authority and the Central 
                      Basin Municipal Water District to reimburse such 
                      agencies for the 
                      Federal share of the costs associated with 
                      designing 
                      and constructing water quality projects to be 
                      administered by such agencies; and
                          ``(ii) to provide grants to reimburse the San 
                      Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority and the 
                      Central Basin Municipal Water District for the 
                      Federal share of the costs required to operate any 
                      project constructed under this section for a 
                      period not to exceed 10 years, following the 
                      initial date of operation of the project.''.

    (c) Cost-Sharing Limitation.--Section 110(a)(3)(B) of such Act (114 
Stat. 2763A-223) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                          ``(iii) Credits toward non-federal share.--For 
                      purposes of clause (ii), the Secretary shall 
                      credit the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality 
                      Authority with the value of all prior expenditures 
                      by non-Federal interests made after February 11, 
                      1993, that are compatible with the purposes of 
                      this section, including--
                                    ``(I) all expenditures made by non-
                                Federal interests to design and 
                                construct water quality projects, 
                                including expenditures associated with 
                                environmental analyses and public 
                                involvement activities that were 
                                required to implement the water quality 
                                projects in compliance with applicable 
                                Federal and State laws; and
                                    ``(II) all expenditures made by non-
                                Federal interests to acquire lands, 
                                easements, rights-of-way, relocations, 
                                disposal areas, and water rights that 
                                were required to implement a water 
                                quality project.''.

    Sec. 203. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed 
to use not to exceed $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated under title II 
to refund amounts received by the United States as payments for charges 
assessed by the Secretary prior to January 1, 1994 for failure to file 
certain certification or reporting forms prior to the receipt of 
irrigation water, pursuant to sections 206 and 224(c) of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390ff, 390ww(c)), including the amount of 
associated interest assessed by the Secretary and paid to the United 
States pursuant to section 224(i) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 
(43 U.S.C. 390ww(i)).
    Sec. 204. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1543 note.>>  Lower Colorado River Basin 
Development Fund. (a) In general.--Notwithstanding section 403(f) of the 
Colorado River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1543(f)), no amount from the 
Lower Colorado River Basin Development Fund shall be paid to

[[Page 115 STAT. 501]]

the general fund of the Treasury until each provision of the Stipulation 
Regarding a Stay and for Ultimate Judgment Upon the Satisfaction of 
Conditions, filed in United States district court on May 3, 2000, in 
Central Arizona Water Conservation District v. United States (No. CIV 
95-625-TUC-WDB (EHC), No. CIV 95-1720-OHX-EHC (Consolidated Action)) is 
met.

    (b) Payment to general fund.--If any of the provisions of the 
stipulation referred to in subsection (a) are not met by the date that 
is 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, payments to the 
general fund of the Treasury shall resume in accordance with section 
403(f) of the Colorado River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1543(f)).
    (c) Authorization.--Amounts in the Lower Colorado River Basin 
Development Fund that but for this section would be returned to the 
general fund of the Treasury shall not be expended until further Act of 
Congress.
    Sec. 205. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of California 
of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality standards of the 
State of California as approved by the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental effect of 
the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal reclamation 
law.
    Sec. 206. The Secretary of the Interior, in accepting payments for 
the reimbursable expenses incurred for the replacement, repair, and 
extraordinary maintenance with regard to the Valve Rehabilitation 
Project at the Arrowrock Dam on the Arrowrock Division of the Boise 
Project in Idaho, shall recover no more than $6,900,000 of such expenses 
according to the application of the current formula for charging users 
for reimbursable operation and maintenance expenses at Bureau of 
Reclamation facilities on the Boise Project, and shall recover this 
portion of such expenses over a period of 15 years.
    Sec. 207. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to purchase or lease water in the Middle Rio Grande or the 
Carlsbad Projects in New Mexico unless said purchase or lease is in 
compliance with the purchase requirements of section 202 of Public Law 
106-60.
    Sec. 208. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Bureau of Reclamation (either directly or by making the funds 
available to an entity under a contract) for the issuance of permits 
for, or any other activity related to the management

[[Page 115 STAT. 502]]

of, commercial rafting activities within the Auburn State Recreation 
Area, California, until the requirements of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 12151 et seq.) are met with respect to 
such commercial rafting activities.
    Sec. 209. (a) Section 101(a)(6)(C) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1999, Public Law 106-53, <<NOTE: 113 Stat. 274.>>  is 
amended to read as follows:
                    ``(C) Makeup of water shortages caused by flood 
                control operation.--
                          ``(i) In general.--The Secretary of the 
                      Interior shall enter into, or modify, such 
                      agreements with the Sacramento Area Flood Control 
                      Agency regarding the operation of Folsom Dam and 
                      Reservoir as may be necessary in order that, 
                      notwithstanding any prior agreement or provision 
                      of law, 100 percent of the water needed to make up 
                      for any water shortage caused by variable flood 
                      control operation during any year at Folsom Dam, 
                      and resulting in a significant impact on 
                      recreation at Folsom Reservoir shall be replaced, 
                      to the extent the water is available for purchase, 
                      by the Secretary of the Interior.
                          ``(ii) Cost sharing.--Seventy-five percent of 
                      the costs of the replacement water provided under 
                      clause (i) shall be paid for on a non-reimbursable 
                      basis by the Secretary of the Interior at Federal 
                      expense. The remaining 25 percent of such costs 
                      shall be provided by the Sacramento Area Flood 
                      Control Agency.
                          ``(iii) Limitation.--To the extent that any 
                      funds in excess of the non-Federal share are 
                      provided by the Sacramento Area Flood Control 
                      Agency, the Secretary shall reimburse such non-
                      Federal interests for such excess funds. Costs for 
                      replacement water may not exceed 125 percent of 
                      the current average market price for raw water, as 
                      determined by the Secretary of the Interior.''.

    (b) Conforming Change.--Section 101(a)(1)(D)(ii) of the Water 
Resources Development Act of 1996, Public Law 104-303, <<NOTE: 110 Stat. 
3663.>>  is 
amended by striking ``during'' and all that follows through 
``thereafter''.

                                TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                             ENERGY PROGRAMS

                              Energy Supply

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy supply activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et 
seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; and the purchase of not to exceed 17 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only, $666,726,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 503]]

                  Non-Defense Environmental Management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental management activities 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction, or expansion, $236,372,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 2021a note.>>  That 
funding for the West Valley Demonstration Project shall be reduced in 
subsequent fiscal years to the minimum necessary to maintain the project 
in a safe and stable condition, unless, not later than September 30, 
2002, the Secretary: (1) provides written notification to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that 
agreement has been reached with the State of New York on the final scope 
of Federal activities at the West Valley site and on the respective 
Federal and State cost shares for those activities; (2) submits a 
written copy of that agreement to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate; and (3) provides a written 
certification that the Federal actions proposed in the agreement will be 
in full compliance with all relevant Federal statutes and are in the 
best interest of the Federal Government.

             Uranium Facilities Maintenance and Remediation

    For necessary expenses to maintain, decontaminate, decommission, and 
otherwise remediate uranium processing facilities, $418,425,000, of 
which $299,641,000 shall be derived from the Uranium Enrichment 
Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, all of which shall remain 
available until expended.

                                 Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not to exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles for 
replacement only, $3,233,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $95,000,000, to remain 
available until expended and to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: 
Provided, That not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be provided to the State 
of Nevada solely for expenditures, other than salaries and expenses of 
State employees, to conduct scientific oversight responsibilities 
pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public Law 97-425, as 
amended: Provided further, That $6,000,000 shall be provided to affected 
units of local governments, as defined in Public Law 97-425, to conduct 
appropriate

[[Page 115 STAT. 504]]

activities pursuant to the Act: Provided further, That the distribution 
of the funds as determined by the units of local government shall be 
approved by the Department of Energy: Provided further, That the funds 
for the State of Nevada shall be made available solely to the Nevada 
Division of Emergency Management by direct payment and units of local 
government by direct payment: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Nevada. Certification.>>  That within 90 days 
of the completion of each Federal fiscal year, the Nevada Division of 
Emergency Management and the Governor of the State of Nevada and each 
local entity shall provide certification to the Department of Energy 
that all funds expended from such payments have been expended for 
activities authorized by Public Law 97-425 and this Act. Failure to 
provide such certification shall cause such entity to be prohibited from 
any further funding provided for similar activities: Provided further, 
That none of the funds herein appropriated may be: (1) used directly or 
indirectly to influence legislative action on any matter pending before 
Congress or a State legislature or for lobbying activity as provided in 
18 U.S.C. 1913; (2) used for litigation expenses; or (3) used to support 
multi-State efforts or other coalition building activities inconsistent 
with the restrictions contained in this Act: Provided further, That all 
proceeds and recoveries realized by the Secretary in carrying out 
activities authorized by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, Public 
Law 97-425, as amended, including but not limited to, any proceeds from 
the sale of assets, shall be available without further appropriation and 
shall remain available until expended.

                       Departmental Administration

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official reception 
and representation expenses (not to exceed $35,000), $210,853,000, to 
remain available until expended, plus such additional amounts as 
necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost of work for 
others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 
U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): Provided, That such increases in cost of work are 
offset by revenue increases of the same or greater amount, to remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That moneys received by the 
Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $137,810,000 in 
fiscal year 2002 may be retained and used for operating expenses within 
this account, and may remain available until expended, as authorized by 
section 201 of Public Law 95-238, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 
U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by the amount of miscellaneous revenues received during fiscal 
year 2002 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from 
the General Fund estimated at not more than $73,043,000.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $32,430,000, to remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 505]]

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense 
weapons activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including 
the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any facility or 
for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or expansion; and the 
purchase of not to exceed 11 passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only, $5,429,238,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense, defense nuclear 
nonproliferation activities, in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $803,586,000, to remain available until expended.

                             Naval Reactors

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $688,045,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                       Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Administrator of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, including official reception 
and representation expenses (not to exceed $12,000), $312,596,000, to 
remain available until expended.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

         Defense Environmental Restoration and Waste Management

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental restoration 
and waste management activities in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion; and the purchase of not to exceed 30

[[Page 115 STAT. 506]]

passenger motor vehicles, of which 27 shall be for replacement only, 
$5,234,576,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Defense Facilities Closure Projects

    For expenses of the Department of Energy to accelerate the closure 
of defense environmental management sites, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
necessary expenses, $1,092,878,000, to remain available until expended.

             Defense Environmental Management Privatization

    For Department of Energy expenses for privatization projects 
necessary for atomic energy defense environmental management activities 
authorized by the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
et seq.), $153,537,000, to remain available until expended.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense activities, 
in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation 
of any real property or any facility or for plant or facility 
acquisition, construction, or expansion, $544,044,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Defense Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
Public Law 97-425, as amended, including the acquisition of real 
property or facility construction or expansion, $280,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for official 
reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500.
    During fiscal year 2002, no new direct loan obligations may be made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to the 
provisions of section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 
825s), as applied to the southeastern power area, $4,891,000, to remain 
available until expended; in addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 
31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $8,000,000 collected by the Southeastern Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood

[[Page 115 STAT. 507]]

Control Act to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be 
credited to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available 
until expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and 
wheeling expenditures.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, and 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out the provisions of section 5 of the Flood 
Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the southwestern 
power area, $28,038,000, to remain available until expended; in 
addition, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302, not to 
exceed $5,200,000 in reimbursements, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That up to $1,512,000 collected by the Southwestern Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act to recover purchase 
power and wheeling expenses shall be credited to this account as 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended for the sole 
purpose of making purchase power and wheeling expenditures.

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, including official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, $171,938,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $166,651,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: Provided, That of the 
amount herein appropriated, $6,000,000 is for deposit into the Utah 
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account pursuant to title IV of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992: 
Provided further, That up to $152,624,000 collected by the Western Area 
Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, to 
remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making purchase 
power and wheeling expenditures.

            Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $2,663,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the 
Western Area Power Administration, as provided in section 423 of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995.

[[Page 115 STAT. 508]]

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, and official reception and 
representation expenses (not to exceed $3,000), $184,155,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That <<NOTE: 42 USC 7171 note.>>  
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $184,155,000 
of revenues from fees and annual charges, and other services and 
collections in fiscal year 2002 shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this account, and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the General Fund 
shall be reduced as revenues are received during fiscal year 2002 so as 
to result in a final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the General 
Fund estimated at not more than $0: Provided further, That the 
Commission is authorized an additional 5 senior executive service 
positions.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

    Sec. 301. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to award a management and operating contract, or award a significant 
extension or expansion to an existing management and operating contract, 
unless such contract is awarded using competitive procedures or the 
Secretary of Energy grants, on a case-by-case basis, a waiver to allow 
for such a deviation. The Secretary may not delegate the authority to 
grant such a waiver.
    (b) <<NOTE: Reports. Notification.>>  At least 60 days before a 
contract award for which the Secretary intends to grant such a waiver, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Subcommittees on Energy and Water 
Development of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report notifying the Subcommittees of 
the waiver and setting forth, in specificity, the substantive reasons 
why the Secretary believes the requirement for competition should be 
waived for this particular award.

    Sec. 302. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to--
              (1) develop or implement a workforce restructuring plan 
        that covers employees of the Department of Energy; or
              (2) provide enhanced severance payments or other benefits 
        for employees of the Department of Energy,

under section 3161 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 42 U.S.C. 7274h).
    Sec. 303. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
augment the $20,000,000 made available for obligation by this Act for 
severance payments and other benefits and community assistance grants 
under section 3161 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 42 U.S.C. 7274h) unless the Department of 
Energy submits a reprogramming request subject to approval by the 
appropriate Congressional committees.

[[Page 115 STAT. 509]]

    Sec. 304. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used to 
prepare or initiate Requests For Proposals (RFPs) for a program if the 
program has not been funded by Congress.

                   (transfers of unexpended balances)

    Sec. 305. The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided 
for activities in this Act may be transferred to appropriation accounts 
for such activities established pursuant to this title. Balances so 
transferred may be merged with funds in the applicable established 
accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund for the same 
time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds in this or any other Act for the 
Administrator of the Bonneville Power Administration may be used to 
enter into any agreement to perform energy efficiency services outside 
the legally defined Bonneville service territory, with the exception of 
services provided internationally, including services provided on a 
reimbursable basis, unless the Administrator certifies in advance that 
such services are not available from private sector businesses.
    Sec. 307. <<NOTE: Public information.>>  When the Department of 
Energy makes a user facility available to universities and other 
potential users, or seeks input from universities and other potential 
users regarding significant characteristics or equipment in a user 
facility or a proposed user facility, the Department shall ensure broad 
public notice of such availability or such need for input to 
universities and other potential users. When the Department of Energy 
considers the participation of a university or other potential user as a 
formal partner in the establishment or operation of a user facility, the 
Department shall employ full and open competition in selecting such a 
partner. For purposes of this section, the term ``user facility'' 
includes, but is not limited to: (1) a user facility as described in 
section 2203(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
13503(a)(2)); (2) a National Nuclear Security Administration Defense 
Programs Technology Deployment Center/User Facility; and (3) any other 
Departmental facility designated by the Department as a user facility.

    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act may be used to dispose of 
transuranic waste in the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant which contains 
concentrations of plutonium in excess of 20 percent by weight for the 
aggregate of any material category on the date of enactment of this Act, 
or is generated after such date. For the purposes of this section, the 
material categories of transuranic waste at the Rocky Flats 
Environmental Technology Site include: (1) ash residues; (2) salt 
residues; (3) wet residues; (4) direct repackage residues; and (5) scrub 
alloy as referenced in the ``Final Environmental Impact Statement on 
Management of Certain Plutonium Residues and Scrub Alloy Stored at the 
Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site''.
    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: 42 USC 7274r.>>  The Administrator of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration may authorize the plant manager of a 
covered nuclear weapons production plant to engage in research, 
development, and demonstration activities with respect to the 
engineering and manufacturing capabilities at such plant in order to 
maintain and enhance such capabilities at such plant: Provided, That of 
the amount allocated to a covered nuclear weapons production plant each 
fiscal year from amounts available to the Department of Energy for such 
fiscal year for national security programs, not more than an amount 
equal to 2 percent of such amount may

[[Page 115 STAT. 510]]

be used for these activities: Provided further, That for purposes of 
this section, the term ``covered nuclear weapons production plant'' 
means the following:
            (1) the Kansas City Plant, Kansas City, Missouri;
            (2) the Y-12 Plant, Oak Ridge, Tennessee;
            (3) the Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas; and
            (4) the Savannah River Plant, South Carolina.

    Sec. 310. The Administrator of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration may authorize the manager of the Nevada Operations Office 
to engage in research, development, and demonstration activities with 
respect to the development, test, and evaluation capabilities necessary 
for operations and readiness of the Nevada Test Site: Provided, That of 
the amount allocated to the Nevada Operations Office each fiscal year 
from amounts available to the Department of Energy for such fiscal year 
for national security programs at the Nevada Test Site, not more than an 
amount equal to 2 percent of such amount may be used for these 
activities.
    Sec. 311. Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride. Section 1 of 
Public Law 105-204 <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 681.>>  is amended in subsection 
(b)--
            (1) by inserting ``except as provided in subsection (c),'' 
        after ``1321-349),''; and
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2002'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2005''.

    Sec. 312. Prohibition of Oil and Gas Drilling in the Finger Lakes 
National Forest, New York. No Federal permit or lease shall be issued 
for oil or gas drilling in the Finger Lakes National Forest, New York, 
during fiscal year 2002.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Appalachian Regional Commission

    For <<NOTE: 40 USC app. 401 note.>>  expenses necessary to carry out 
the programs authorized by the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 
1965, as amended, notwithstanding section 405 of said Act, and, for 
necessary expenses for the Federal Co-Chairman and the alternate on the 
Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the Federal share of the 
administrative expenses of the Commission, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$71,290,000, to remain available until expended.

                 Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $18,500,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Delta Regional Authority and to carry 
out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional

[[Page 115 STAT. 511]]

Authority Act of 2000, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                            Denali Commission

    For expenses of the Denali Commission including the purchase, 
construction and acquisition of plant and capital equipment as necessary 
and other expenses, $38,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, including official representation 
expenses (not to exceed $15,000), and purchase of promotional items for 
use in the recruitment of individuals for employment, $516,900,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated herein, $23,650,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste 
Fund: Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, inspection 
services, and other services and collections estimated at $473,520,000 
in fiscal year 2002 shall be retained and used for necessary salaries 
and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues received during 
fiscal year 2002 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2002 
appropriation estimated at not more than $43,380,000: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds made 
available under this or any other Act may be expended by the Commission 
to implement or enforce any part of 10 CFR part 35, as adopted by the 
Commission on October 23, 2000, with respect to diagnostic nuclear 
medicine, except those parts which establish training and experience 
requirements for persons seeking licensing as authorized users, until 
such time as the Commission has reexamined 10 CFR part 35 and provided a 
report to the Congress which explains why the burden imposed by 10 CFR 
part 35 could not be further reduced.

                       Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $6,180,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other services 
and collections estimated at $5,933,000 in fiscal year 2002 shall be 
retained and be available until expended, for necessary salaries and 
expenses in this account notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount 
of revenues received during fiscal year 2002 so as to result in a final 
fiscal year 2002 appropriation estimated at not more than $247,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 512]]

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $3,100,000, to be 
derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, and to remain available until 
expended.

                                 TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501. None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used in 
any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action on 
any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, other 
than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 
1913.
    Sec. 502. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
     (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely 
Labeling Products as Made in America.--If it has been finally 
determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally 
affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, 
or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold 
in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or 
subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described 
in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 503. The Secretary of the Army shall conduct and submit to 
Congress a study that examines the known and potential environmental 
effects of oil and gas drilling activity in the Great Lakes (including 
effects on the shorelines and water of the Great Lakes): Provided, That 
during the fiscal years 2002 and 2003, no Federal or State permit or 
lease shall be issued for new oil and gas slant, directional, or 
offshore drilling in or under one or more of the Great Lakes.

[[Page 115 STAT. 513]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
Appropriations Act, 2002''.

    Approved November 12, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2311 (S. 1171):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-112 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-258
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-39 accompanying S. 1171 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            June 27, 28, considered and passed House.
            July 16-19, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 1, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            Nov. 12, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>