[107th Congress Public Law 87]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ087.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 833]]

Public Law 107-87
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of Transportation and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 18, 2001 -  [H.R. 2299]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002.>> That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Department of Transportation and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $67,778,000, 
of which not to exceed $1,929,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $619,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to exceed $13,355,000 
shall be available for the Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed 
$3,058,000 shall be for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Policy; not to exceed $7,421,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs; not to 
exceed $7,728,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,282,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Government 
Affairs; not to exceed $19,250,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $1,723,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,204,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $507,000 shall be available for the Board of 
Contract Appeals; not to exceed $1,240,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization; not to exceed 
$1,321,000 shall be available for the Office of Intelligence and 
Security; not to exceed $6,141,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That not to exceed $60,000 
shall be for allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, excluding fees 
authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited to this 
appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds

[[Page 115 STAT. 834]]

received in user fees: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Transportation is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any 
office of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office 
of the Secretary: Provided further, That no appropriation for any office 
shall be increased or decreased by more than 7 percent by all such 
transfers: Provided further, That any such transfer shall be submitted 
for approval to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $8,500,000.

                 Transportation Security Administration

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security Administration 
related to providing civil aviation security services pursuant to Public 
Law 107-71, $1,250,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That, security service fees authorized under 49 U.S.C. 44940 
shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections and 
used for providing civil aviation security services authorized by that 
section: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
General Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2002 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at not more than $0.

           Transportation Planning, Research, and Development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $11,993,000.

              Transportation Administrative Service Center

    Necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of the 
Transportation Administrative Service Center, not to exceed 
$125,323,000, shall be paid from appropriations made available to the 
Department of Transportation: Provided, That such services shall be 
provided on a competitive basis to entities within the Department of 
Transportation: Provided further, That the above limitation on operating 
expenses shall not apply to non-DOT entities: Provided further, That no 
funds appropriated in this Act to an agency of the Department shall be 
transferred to the Transportation Administrative Service Center without 
the approval of the agency modal administrator: Provided further, That 
no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such Committees.

                Minority Business Resource Center Program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $500,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these

[[Page 115 STAT. 835]]

funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which 
is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $18,367,000. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan program, 
$400,000.

                       Minority Business Outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center outreach 
activities, $3,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003: 
Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used 
for business opportunities related to any mode of transportation.

                        Payments to Air Carriers

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$13,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                               COAST GUARD

                           Operating Expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase of not to exceed five 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
section 229(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429(b)); and 
recreation and welfare, $3,382,000,000, of which $440,000,000 shall be 
available for defense-related activities; and of which $24,945,000 shall 
be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund: Provided, That none 
of the funds appropriated in this or any other Act shall be available 
for pay of administrative expenses in connection with shipping 
commissioners in the United States: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act shall be available for expenses incurred for 
yacht documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12109, except to the extent fees are 
collected from yacht owners and credited to this appropriation: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, not less 
than $14,541,000 shall be used solely to increase staffing at Search and 
Rescue stations, surf stations and command centers, increase the 
training and experience level of individuals serving in said stations 
through targeted retention efforts, revise personnel policies and expand 
training programs, and to modernize and improve the quantity and quality 
of personal safety equipment, including survival suits, for personnel 
assigned to said stations: Provided further, That the Department of 
Transportation Inspector General shall audit and certify to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations that the funding described in 
the preceding proviso is being used solely to supplement and not 
supplant the Coast Guard's level of effort in this area in fiscal year 
2001.

[[Page 115 STAT. 836]]

               Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, and 
improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $636,354,000, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund; of 
which $89,640,000 shall be available to acquire, repair, renovate or 
improve vessels, small boats and related equipment, to remain available 
until September 30, 2006; $9,500,000 shall be available to acquire new 
aircraft and increase aviation capability, to remain available until 
September 30, 2004; $79,293,000 shall be available for other equipment, 
to remain available until September 30, 2004; $73,100,000 shall be 
available for shore facilities and aids to navigation facilities, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004; $64,631,000 shall be 
available for personnel compensation and benefits and related costs, to 
remain available until September 30, 2003; and $320,190,000 shall be 
available for the Integrated Deepwater Systems program, to remain 
available until September 30, 2006: Provided, That the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard is authorized to dispose of surplus real property, by sale 
or lease, and the proceeds shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and made available only for the National Distress 
and Response System Modernization program, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2004: Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading may be obligated or expended for the 
Integrated Deepwater Systems (IDS) system integration contract until the 
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Transportation and the Director, Office 
of Management and Budget jointly certify to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations that funding for the IDS program for fiscal 
years 2003 through 2007, funding for the National Distress and Response 
System Modernization program to allow for full deployment of said system 
by 2006, and funding for other essential search and rescue procurements, 
are fully funded in the Coast Guard Capital Investment Plan and within 
the Office of Management and Budget's budgetary projections for the 
Coast Guard for those years: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading may be obligated or expended for the 
Integrated Deepwater Systems (IDS) integration contract until the 
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Transportation and the Director, Office 
of Management and Budget jointly approve a contingency procurement 
strategy for the recapitalization of assets and capabilities envisioned 
in the IDS: Provided further, That upon initial submission to the 
Congress of the fiscal year 2003 President's budget, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall transmit to the Congress a comprehensive capital 
investment plan for the United States Coast Guard which includes funding 
for each budget line item for fiscal years 2003 through 2007, with total 
funding for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for 
those years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and 
Budget: Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after initial submission of the 
President's budget that the plan has not been submitted to the Congress: 
Provided further, That the Director, Office of Management and Budget 
shall submit the budget request for the IDS integration

[[Page 115 STAT. 837]]

contract delineating sub-headings which include the following: systems 
integrator, ship construction, aircraft, equipment, and communications, 
providing specific assets and costs under each sub-heading.

                Environmental Compliance and Restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Coast Guard's environmental 
compliance and restoration functions under chapter 19 of title 14, 
United States Code, $16,927,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Alteration of Bridges

    For necessary expenses for alteration or removal of obstructive 
bridges, $15,466,000, to remain available until expended.

                               Retired Pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations therefor 
otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, payments 
under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits 
Plans, payment for career status bonuses under the National Defense 
Authorization Act, and for payments for medical care of retired 
personnel and their dependents under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 
U.S.C. ch. 55), $876,346,000.

                            Reserve Training

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For all necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized 
by law; maintenance and operation of facilities; and supplies, 
equipment, and services, $83,194,000: Provided, That no more than 
$25,800,000 of funds made available under this heading may be 
transferred to Coast Guard ``Operating expenses'' or otherwise made 
available to reimburse the Coast Guard for financial support of the 
Coast Guard Reserve: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act may be used by the Coast Guard to assess direct charges on the Coast 
Guard Reserves for items or activities which were not so charged during 
fiscal year 1997.

               Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for applied 
scientific research, development, test, and evaluation; maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease and operation of facilities and equipment, as 
authorized by law, $20,222,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $3,492,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund: Provided, That there may be credited to and used for the purposes 
of this appropriation funds received from State and local governments, 
other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries, for 
expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation.

[[Page 115 STAT. 838]]

                     FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

                               Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the public, 
lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only, in 
addition to amounts made available by Public Law 104-264, 
$6,886,000,000, of which $5,773,519,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $5,452,871,000 
shall be available for air traffic services program activities; not to 
exceed $768,769,000 shall be available for aviation regulation and 
certification program activities; not to exceed $150,154,000 shall be 
available for civil aviation security program activities; not to exceed 
$195,799,000 shall be available for research and acquisition program 
activities; not to exceed $12,456,000 shall be available for commercial 
space transportation program activities; not to exceed $50,284,000 shall 
be available for financial services program activities; not to exceed 
$69,516,000 shall be available for human resources program activities; 
not to exceed $85,943,000 shall be available for regional coordination 
program activities; and not to exceed $109,208,000 shall be available 
for staff offices: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the Federal Aviation Administration to finalize or 
implement any regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees 
not specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, 
and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including 
airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related 
thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration forms: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Contracts.>> That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $6,000,000 shall be for the contract tower cost-
sharing program: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into 
a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to 
assist in the development of aviation safety standards: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new 
applicants for the second career training program: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for paying premium 
pay under 5 U.S.C. 5546(a) to any Federal Aviation Administration 
employee unless such employee actually performed work during the time 
corresponding to such premium pay: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act may be obligated or expended to operate a manned 
auxiliary flight service station in the contiguous United States: 
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical 
charting and cartography are available for activities conducted by, or 
coordinated through, the Transportation Administrative Service Center.

[[Page 115 STAT. 839]]

                        Facilities and Equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for acquisition, 
establishment, and improvement by contract or purchase, and hire of air 
navigation and experimental facilities and equipment as authorized under 
part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including 
initial acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering 
and service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under this 
heading; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,914,000,000, of which $2,536,900,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2004, and of which $377,100,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2002: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment and modernization of air navigation facilities: 
Provided further, That upon initial submission to the Congress of the 
fiscal year 2003 President's budget, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall transmit to the Congress a comprehensive capital investment plan 
for the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2003 through 2007, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: 
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after initial submission of the 
President's budget that the plan has not been submitted to the Congress.

                        Facilities and Equipment

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                              (rescission)

    Of the available balances under this heading, $15,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                 Research, Engineering, and Development

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle VII 
of title 49, United States Code, including construction of experimental 
facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant, 
$195,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received from States, counties, 
municipalities, other public authorities, and private sources, for 
expenses incurred for research, engineering, and development.

[[Page 115 STAT. 840]]

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for implementation of section 203 of Public Law 
106-181; and for inspection activities and administration of airport 
safety programs, including those related to airport operating 
certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United States Code, 
$1,800,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the obligations for which are in excess of $3,300,000,000 in 
fiscal year 2002, notwithstanding section 47117(h) of title 49, United 
States Code: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not more than $57,050,000 of funds limited under this heading 
shall be obligated for administration and not less than $20,000,000 
shall be for the Small Community Air Service Development Pilot Program.

                       Grants-in-Aid for Airports

                     (airport and airway trust fund)

                 (rescission of contract authorization)

    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 49 U.S.C. 48103, as 
amended, $301,720,000 are rescinded.

                    Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund

    The Secretary of Transportation is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures and investments, within the limits of funds available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 44307, and in accordance with section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9104), as may 
be necessary in carrying out the program for aviation insurance 
activities under chapter 443 of title 49, United States Code.

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION

                  Limitation on Administrative Expenses

    Necessary expenses for administration and operation of the Federal 
Highway Administration, not to exceed $311,000,000, shall be paid in 
accordance with law from appropriations made available by this Act to 
the Federal Highway Administration together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration: Provided, 
That of the funds available under section

[[Page 115 STAT. 841]]

104(a)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code: $7,500,000 shall be 
available for ``Child Passenger Protection Education Grants'' under 
section 2003(b) of Public Law 105-178, as amended; $4,000,000 shall be 
available for motor carrier safety research; $841,000 shall be available 
for the motor carrier crash data improvement program; $6,000,000 shall 
be available for the nationwide differential global positioning system 
program; and $1,500,000 for environmental streamlining activities.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    None <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for the implementation or execution of programs, the 
obligations for which are in excess of $31,799,104,000 for Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs for fiscal year 2002: 
Provided, That within the $31,799,104,000 obligation limitation on 
Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs, not more 
than $447,500,000 shall be available for the implementation or execution 
of programs for transportation research (sections 502, 503, 504, 506, 
507, and 508 of title 23, United States Code, as amended; section 5505 
of title 49, United States Code, as amended; and sections 5112 and 5204-
5209 of Public Law 105-178) for fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That 
this limitation on transportation research programs shall not apply to 
any funds authorized under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, 
and allocated to these programs, or to any authority previously made 
available for obligation: Provided further, That within the $225,000,000 
obligation limitation on Intelligent Transportation Systems, the 
following sums shall be made available for Intelligent Transportation 
System projects that are designed to achieve the goals and purposes set 
forth in section 5203 of the Intelligent Transportation Systems Act of 
1998 (subtitle C of title V of Public Law 105-178; 112 Stat. 453; 23 
U.S.C. 502 note) in the following specified areas:
            Alameda-Contra Costa, California, $500,000;
            Alaska statewide, $2500,000;
            Alexandria, Virginia, $750,000;
            Arizona statewide EMS, $500,000;
            Army trail road traffic signal coordination project, 
        Illinois, $300,000;
            Atlanta smart corridors, Georgia, $1,000,000;
            Austin, Texas, $125,000;
            Automated crash notification, UAB, Alabama, $2,500,000;
            Bay County Area wide traffic signal system, Florida, 
        $500,000;
            Beaver County transit mobility manager, Pennsylvania, 
        $800,000;
            Brownsville, Texas, $250,000;
            Carbondale technology transfer center, Pennsylvania, 
        $1,000,000;
            Cargo mate logistics and intermodal management, New York, 
        $1,250,000;
            Central Ohio, $1,500,000;
            Chattanooga, Tennessee, $2,000,000;

[[Page 115 STAT. 842]]

            Chinatown intermodal transportation center, California, 
        $1,750,000;
            Clark County, Washington, $1,000,000;
            Commercial vehicle information systems and networks, New 
        York, $450,000;
            Dayton, Ohio, $1,250,000;
            Detroit, Michigan (airport), $1,500,000;
            Durham, Wake Counties, North Carolina, $500,000;
            Eastern Kentucky rural highway information, $2,000,000;
            Fargo, North Dakota, $1,000,000;
            Forsyth, Guilford Counties, North Carolina, $1,000,000;
            Genesee County, Michigan, $1,000,000;
            Great Lakes, Michigan, $1,500,000;
            Guidestar, Minnesota, $6,000,000;
            Harrison County, Mississippi, $500,000;
            Hawaii statewide, $1,000,000;
            Hoosier SAFE-T, Indiana, $2,000,000;
            Houma, Louisiana, $1,000,000;
            I-90 connector testbed, New York, $1,000,000;
            Illinois statewide, $2,000,000;
            Inglewood, California, $500,000;
            Integrated transportation management system, Delaware 
        statewide, $2,000,000;
            Iowa statewide, $562,000;
            Jackson Metropolitan, Mississippi, $500,000;
            James Madison University, Virginia, $1,500,000;
            Kansas City, Kansas, $500,000;
            Kittitas County workzone traffic safety system, Washington, 
        $450,000;
            Lansing, Michigan, $750,000;
            Las Vegas, Nevada, $1,450,000;
            Lexington, Kentucky, $750,000;
            Libertyville traffic management center, Illinois, $760,000;
            Long Island rail road grade crossing deployment, New York, 
        $1,000,000;
            Macomb, Michigan (border crossing), $1,000,000;
            Maine statewide (rural), $500,000;
            Maryland statewide, $1,000,000;
            Miami-Dade, Florida, $1,000,000;
            Monterey-Salinas, California, $750,000;
            Montgomery County ECC & TMC, Maryland, $1,000,000;
            Moscow, Idaho, $1,000,000;
            Nebraska statewide, $4,000,000;
            New York statewide information exchange systems, New York, 
        $500,000;
            New York, New Jersey, Connecticut (TRANSCOM), $2,500,000;
            North Greenbush, New York, $1,000,000;
            Oklahoma statewide, $3,000,000;
            Oxford, Mississippi, $500,000;
            Pennsylvania statewide (turnpike), $500,000;
            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, $1,033,000;
            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Drexel), $1,500,000;
            Pioneer Valley, Massachusetts, $1,500,000;
            Port of Long Beach, California, $500,000;
            Port of Tacoma trucker congestion notification system, 
        Washington, $200,000;

[[Page 115 STAT. 843]]

            Roadside animal detection test-bed, Montana, $500,000;
            Rochester-Genesse, New York, $800,000;
            Rutland, Vermont, $750,000;
            Sacramento, California, $3,000,000;
            San Diego joint transportation operations center, 
        California, $1,500,000;
            San Francisco central control communications, California, 
        $250,000;
            Santa Anita, California, $300,000;
            Santa Teresa, New Mexico, $750,000;
            Shreveport, Louisiana, $750,000;
            Silicon Valley transportation management center, California, 
        $700,000;
            South Carolina DOT, $3,000,000;
            Southeast Corridor, Colorado, $7,000,000;
            Southern Nevada (bus), $1,100,000;
            Spillway road incident management system, Mississippi, 
        $600,000;
            St. Louis, Missouri, $1,000,000;
            Statewide transportation operations center, Kentucky, 
        $2,000,000;
            Superior, I-39 corridor, Wisconsin, $2,500,000;
            Texas statewide, $2,000,000;
            Travel network, South Dakota, $2,325,000;
            University of Arizona ATLAS Center, Arizona, $500,000;
            Utah Statewide, $560,000;
            Vermont statewide (rural), $1,500,000;
            Washington statewide, $4,500,000;
            Washington, D.C. metropolitan region, $2,000,000;
            Wayne County road information management system, Michigan, 
        $1,500,000;
            Wichita, Kansas, $1,200,000;
            Wisconsin communications network, $310,000;
            Wisconsin statewide, $1,000,000; and
            Yakima County adverse weather operations, Washington, 
        $475,000:

Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds authorized under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2002 shall be apportioned to the States in accordance with 
the distribution set forth in section 110(b)(4)(A) and (B) of title 23, 
United States Code, except that before such apportionments are made, 
$35,565,651 shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1101(a)(8)(A) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, and section 204 of title 23, United States Code; $31,815,091 
shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1101(a)(8)(B) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, and section 204 of title 23, United States Code; $21,339,391 
shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1101(a)(8)(C) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, and section 204 of title 23, United States Code; $2,586,593 
shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1101(a)(8)(D) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, and section 204 of title 23, United States Code; $25,579,000 
shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 129(c) of 
title 23, United States Code, and section 1064 of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, as amended; $352,256,000 shall be

[[Page 115 STAT. 844]]

set aside for the programs authorized under sections 1118 and 1119 of 
the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended; 
$3,348,128 shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1101(a)(11) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended and section 162 of title 23, United States Code; $76,025,000 
shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 118(c) of 
title 23, United States Code; $62,450,000 shall be set aside for the 
program authorized under section 144(g) of title 23, United States Code; 
$251,092,600 shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
1221 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended; 
$10,000,000 shall be set aside for the program authorized under section 
502(e) of title 23, United States Code; $56,300,000 shall be available 
for border infrastructure improvements; $45,122,600 shall be available 
for allocation by the Secretary for public lands highways; and 
$23,896,000 shall be set aside and transferred to the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration as authorized by section 102 of Public Law 
106-159: Provided further, That, of the funds to be apportioned to each 
State under section 110 for fiscal year 2002, the Secretary shall ensure 
that such funds are apportioned for the programs authorized under 
sections 1101(a)(1), 1101(a)(2), 1101(a)(3), 1101(a)(4), and 1101(a)(5) 
of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as amended, in 
the same ratio that each State is apportioned funds for such programs in 
fiscal year 2002 but for this section.

                          Federal-Aid Highways

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for carrying out the 
provisions of title 23, United States Code, that are attributable to 
Federal-aid highways, including the National Scenic and Recreational 
Highway as authorized by 23 U.S.C. 148, not otherwise provided, 
including reimbursement for sums expended pursuant to the provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 308, $30,000,000,000 or so much thereof as may be available in 
and derived from the Highway Trust Fund, to remain available until 
expended.

                 Appalachian Development Highway System

    For necessary expenses for the Appalachian Development Highway 
System as authorized under section 1069(y) of Public Law 102-240, as 
amended, $200,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       State Infrastructure Banks

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available for State Infrastructure Banks in Public 
Law 104-205, $5,750,000 are rescinded.

[[Page 115 STAT. 845]]

               FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                          motor carrier safety

                  limitation on administrative expenses

                     (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for administration of motor carrier safety 
programs and motor carrier safety research, pursuant to section 
104(a)(1)(B) of title 23, United States Code, not to exceed $110,000,000 
shall be paid in accordance with law from appropriations made available 
by this Act and from any available take-down balances to the Federal 
Motor Carrier Safety Administration, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration: Provided, That such amounts shall be available to carry 
out the functions and operations of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration.
    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 23 U.S.C. 104(a)(1)(B), 
$6,665,342 are rescinded.

                  National Motor Carrier Safety Program

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 31102, 31106 and 31309, 
$205,896,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund and to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That none of the funds in this Act 
shall be available for the implementation or execution of programs the 
obligations for which are in excess of $182,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants'', and ``Information Systems'': Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the $23,896,000 provided 
under 23 U.S.C. 110, $18,000,000 shall be for border State grants and 
$4,837,000 shall be for State commercial driver's license program 
improvements.

             NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION

                         Operations and Research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 
49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United 
States Code, $127,780,000, of which $95,835,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2004: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated 
by this Act may be obligated or expended to plan, finalize, or implement 
any rulemaking to add to section 575.104 of title 49 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations any requirement pertaining to a grading standard 
that is different from the three grading standards (treadwear, traction, 
and temperature resistance) already in effect.

[[Page 115 STAT. 846]]

                         Operations and Research

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

            (including rescission of contract authorization)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, to remain available until expended, $72,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds in 
this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2002, are in excess of 
$72,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403.
    Of the unobligated balances authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403, 
$1,516,000 are rescinded.

                        National Driver Register

                          (highway trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary 
with respect to the National Driver Register under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code, $2,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund, and to remain available until expended.

                      Highway Traffic Safety Grants

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                       (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 
405, 410, and 411 to remain available until expended, $223,000,000, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund: Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of programs 
the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2002, are in excess of 
$223,000,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 405, 410, and 
411 of which $160,000,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety Programs'' under 
23 U.S.C. 402, $15,000,000 shall be for ``Occupant Protection Incentive 
Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 405, $38,000,000 shall be for ``Alcohol-
Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' under 23 U.S.C. 410, and 
$10,000,000 shall be for the ``State Highway Safety Data Grants'' under 
23 U.S.C. 411: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local, or private buildings or 
structures: Provided further, That not to exceed $8,000,000 of the funds 
made available for section 402, not to exceed $750,000 of the funds made 
available for section 405, not to exceed $1,900,000 of the funds made 
available for section 410, and not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made 
available for section 411 shall be available to NHTSA for administering 
highway safety grants under chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code: 
Provided

[[Page 115 STAT. 847]]

further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for 
section 410 ``Alcohol-Impaired Driving Countermeasures Grants'' shall be 
available for technical assistance to the States.

                     FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION

                          Safety and Operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $110,857,000, of which $6,509,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                    Railroad Research and Development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$29,000,000, to remain available until expended.

             Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue to the 
Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations pursuant to section 
512 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94-210), as amended, in such amounts and at such times as 
may be necessary to pay any amounts required pursuant to the guarantee 
of the principal amount of obligations under sections 511 through 513 of 
such Act, such authority to exist as long as any such guaranteed 
obligation is outstanding: Provided, That pursuant to section 502 of 
such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan guarantee commitments 
shall be made using Federal funds for the credit risk premium during 
fiscal year 2002.

                     Next Generation High-Speed Rail

    For necessary expenses for the Next Generation High-Speed Rail 
program as authorized under 49 U.S.C. 26101 and 26102, $32,300,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Alaska Railroad Rehabilitation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
Alaska Railroad, $20,000,000 shall be for capital rehabilitation and 
improvements benefiting its passenger operations, to remain available 
until expended.

      Capital Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation

    For necessary expenses of capital improvements of the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 24104(a), 
$521,476,000, to remain available until expended.

                     FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION

                         Administrative Expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $13,400,000: Provided, That no more than

[[Page 115 STAT. 848]]

$67,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these purposes: 
Provided further, That of the funds in this Act available for the 
execution of contracts under section 5327(c) of title 49, United States 
Code, $2,000,000 shall be reimbursed to the Department of 
Transportation's Office of Inspector General for costs associated with 
audits and investigations of transit-related issues, including reviews 
of new fixed guideway systems: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$2,600,000 for the National transit database shall remain available 
until expended.

                             Formula Grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5308, 5310, 
5311, 5327, and section 3038 of Public Law 105-178, $718,400,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than 
$3,592,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for these 
purposes: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, of the funds provided under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be 
available for grants for the costs of planning, delivery, and temporary 
use of transit vehicles for special transportation needs and 
construction of temporary transportation facilities for the VIII 
Paralympiad for the Disabled, to be held in Salt Lake City, Utah: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Utah.>> That in allocating the funds 
designated in the preceding proviso, the Secretary shall make grants 
only to the Utah Department of Transportation, and such grants shall not 
be subject to any local share requirement or limitation on operating 
assistance under this Act or the Federal Transit Act, as amended: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 3008 of Public Law 105-
178 and 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(3)(C), $50,000,000 of the funds to carry out 
49 U.S.C. 5308 shall be transferred to and merged with funding provided 
for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related 
equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities under ``Federal 
Transit Administration, Capital investment grants''.

                   University Transportation Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5505, $1,200,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no more than $6,000,000 
of budget authority shall be available for these purposes.

                      Transit Planning and Research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, 5305, 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322, $23,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That no more than $116,000,000 of 
budget authority shall be available for these purposes: Provided 
further, That $5,250,000 is available to provide rural transportation 
assistance (49 U.S.C. 5311(b)(2)), $4,000,000 is available to carry out 
programs under the National Transit Institute (49 U.S.C. 5315), 
$8,250,000 is available to carry out transit cooperative research 
programs (49 U.S.C. 5313(a)), $55,422,400 is available for metropolitan 
planning (49 U.S.C. 5303, 5304, and 5305), $11,577,600 is available for 
State planning (49 U.S.C. 5313(b)); and $31,500,000 is available for the 
national planning and research program (49 U.S.C. 5314).

[[Page 115 STAT. 849]]

                      Trust Fund Share of Expenses

                 (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out 49 U.S.C. 5303-5308, 5310-5315, 
5317(b), 5322, 5327, 5334, 5505, and sections 3037 and 3038 of Public 
Law 105-178, $5,397,800,000, to remain available until expended, and to 
be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust Fund: 
Provided, That $2,873,600,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit 
Administration's formula grants account: Provided further, That 
$93,000,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
transit planning and research account: Provided further, That 
$53,600,000 shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's 
administrative expenses account: Provided further, That $4,800,000 shall 
be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's university 
transportation research account: Provided further, That $100,000,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's job access and 
reverse commute grants program: Provided further, That $2,272,800,000 
shall be paid to the Federal Transit Administration's capital investment 
grants account.

                        Capital Investment Grants

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5308, 5309, 5318, and 
5327, $568,200,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
no more than $2,841,000,000 of budget authority shall be available for 
these purposes: Provided further, That there shall be available for 
fixed guideway modernization, $1,136,400,000; there shall be available 
for the replacement, rehabilitation, and purchase of buses and related 
equipment and the construction of bus-related facilities, $568,200,000, 
together with $50,000,000 transferred from ``Federal Transit 
Administration, Formula Grants''; and there shall be available for new 
fixed guideway systems $1,136,400,000, together with $1,488,840 of the 
funds made available under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital 
investment grants'' in Public Law 105-277; to be available as follows:
            $10,296,000 for Alaska or Hawaii ferry projects;
            $1,000,000 for the Albuquerque, New Mexico, light rail 
        project;
            $25,000,000 for the Atlanta, Georgia, North line extension 
        project;
            $13,000,000 for the Baltimore, Maryland, central light rail 
        transit double track project;
            $1,500,000 for the Baltimore, Maryland, rail transit 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Birmingham, Alabama, transit corridor 
        project;
            $10,631,245 for the Boston, Massachusetts, South Boston 
        Piers transitway project;
            $500,000 for the Boston, Massachusetts, urban ring transit 
        project;
            $7,000,000 for the Charlotte, North Carolina, South corridor 
        light rail transit project;

[[Page 115 STAT. 850]]

            $32,750,000 for the Chicago, Illinois, Douglas branch 
        reconstruction project;
            $55,000,000 for the Chicago, Illinois, METRA commuter rail 
        and line extension projects;
            $3,000,000 for the Chicago, Illinois, Ravenswood 
        reconstruction project;
            $6,000,000 for the Cleveland, Ohio, Euclid corridor 
        transportation project;
            $70,000,000 for the Dallas, Texas, North Central light rail 
        transit extension project;
            $55,000,000 for the Denver, Colorado, Southeast corridor 
        light rail transit project;
            $192,492 for the Denver, Colorado, Southwest corridor light 
        rail transit project;
            $150,000 for the Des Moines, Iowa, DSM bus feasibility 
        project;
            $200,000 for the Dubuque, Iowa, light rail feasibility 
        project;
            $25,000,000 for the Dulles corridor, Virginia, bus rapid 
        transit project;
            $27,000,000 for the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Tri-County 
        commuter rail upgrades project;
            $2,000,000 for the Fort Worth, Texas, Trinity railway 
        express project;
            $750,000 for the Grand Rapids, Michigan, ITP metro area, 
        major corridor project;
            $12,000,000 for Honolulu, Hawaii, bus rapid transit project;
            $10,000,000 for the Houston, Texas, Metro advanced transit 
        project;
            $300,000 for the Iowa, Metrolink light rail feasibility 
        project;
            $1,500,000 for the Johnson County, Kansas-Kansas City, 
        Missouri, I-35 commuter rail project;
            $2,000,000 for the Kenosha-Racine-Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
        commuter rail extension project;
            $55,000,000 for the Largo, Maryland, metrorail extension 
        project;
            $2,000,000 for the Little Rock, Arkansas, river rail 
        project;
            $14,744,420 for the Long Island Rail Road, New York, East 
        Side access project;
            $9,289,557 for the Los Angeles, California, North Hollywood 
        extension project;
            $7,500,000 for the Los Angeles, California, East Side 
        corridor light rail transit project;
            $3,000,000 for the Lowell, Massachusetts-Nashua, New 
        Hampshire commuter rail extension project;
            $12,000,000 for the Maryland (MARC) commuter rail 
        improvements projects;
            $19,170,000 for the Memphis, Tennessee, Medical center rail 
        extension project;
            $5,000,000 for the Miami, Florida, South Miami-Dade busway 
        extension project;
            $10,000,000 for the Minneapolis-Rice, Minnesota, Northstar 
        corridor commuter rail project;
            $50,000,000 for the Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota, 
        Hiawatha corridor light rail transit project;

[[Page 115 STAT. 851]]

            $4,000,000 for the Nashville, Tennessee, East corridor 
        commuter rail project;
            $141,000,000 for the New Jersey Hudson-Bergen light rail 
        transit project;
            $15,000,000 for the New Orleans, Louisiana, Canal Street car 
        line project;
            $1,200,000 for the New Orleans, Louisiana, Desire corridor 
        streetcar project;
            $2,000,000 for the New York, New York, Second Avenue subway 
        project;
            $20,000,000 for the Newark-Elizabeth, New Jersey, rail link 
        project;
            $2,500,000 for the Northeast Indianapolis, Indiana, downtown 
        corridor project;
            $2,500,000 for the Northern Indiana South Shore commuter 
        rail project;
            $6,500,000 for the Oceanside-Escondido, California, light 
        rail extension project;
            $500,000 for the Ohio, Central Ohio North corridor rail 
        (COTA) project;
            $5,000,000 for the Pawtucket-TF Green, Rhode Island, 
        commuter rail and maintenance facility project;
            $9,000,000 for the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Schuykill 
        Valley metro project;
            $10,000,000 for the Phoenix, Arizona, Central Phoenix/East 
        Valley corridor project;
            $8,000,000 for the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, North Shore 
        connector light rail transit project;
            $18,000,000 for the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, stage II light 
        rail transit reconstruction project;
            $64,000,000 for the Portland, Oregon, Interstate MAX light 
        rail transit extension project;
            $20,000,000 for the Puget Sound, Washington, RTA Sounder 
        commuter rail project;
            $9,000,000 for the Raleigh, North Carolina, Triangle transit 
        project;
            $328,000 for the Sacramento, California, light rail transit 
        extension project;
            $14,000,000 for the Salt Lake City, Utah, CBD to University 
        light rail transit project;
            $3,000,000 for the Salt Lake City, Utah, University Medical 
        Center light rail transit extension project;
            $60,000,000 for the San Diego, California, Mission Valley 
        East light rail project;
            $1,000,000 for the San Diego, California, Mid Coast corridor 
        project;
            $75,673,790 for the San Francisco, California, BART 
        extension to the airport project;
            $113,336 for the San Jose, California, Tasman West light 
        rail transit project;
            $40,000,000 for the San Juan, Puerto Rico, Tren Urbano 
        project;
            $1,700,000 for the Sioux City, Iowa, light rail project;
            $28,000,000 for the St. Louis-St. Clair, Missouri, metrolink 
        extension project;
            $5,000,000 for the Stamford, Connecticut, urban transitway 
        project;

[[Page 115 STAT. 852]]

            $3,000,000 for the Stockton, California, Altamont commuter 
        rail project;
            $3,000,000 for the Virginia Railway Express station 
        improvements project;
            $500,000 for the Washington County, Oregon, Wilsonville to 
        Beaverton commuter rail project;
            $2,500,000 for the Wasilla, Alaska, alternative route 
        project; and
            $400,000 for the Yosemite, California, area regional 
        transportation system project.

                  Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants

    Notwithstanding section 3037(l)(3) of Public Law 105-178, as 
amended, for necessary expenses to carry out section 3037 of the Federal 
Transit Act of 1998, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no more than $125,000,000 of budget authority shall be 
available for these purposes: Provided further, That up to $250,000 of 
the funds provided under this heading may be used by the Federal Transit 
Administration for technical assistance and support and performance 
reviews of the Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants program.

              SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION

              Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal 
year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       Operations and Maintenance

                     (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses for operations and maintenance of those 
portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, $13,345,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 
99-662.

              RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION

                      Research and Special Programs

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Research 
and Special Programs Administration, $37,279,000, of which $645,000 
shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, and of which $2,170,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That up to 
$1,200,000 in fees collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited 
in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided 
further, That there may be credited to this appropriation, to be 
available until expended,

[[Page 115 STAT. 853]]

funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training, for 
reports publication and dissemination, and for travel expenses incurred 
in performance of hazardous materials exemptions and approvals 
functions.

                             Pipeline Safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline 
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $58,250,000, 
of which $7,864,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust 
Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 2004; of which 
$50,386,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline Safety Fund, of which 
$30,828,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2004.

                      Emergency Preparedness Grants

                      (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5127(c), $200,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2004: Provided, That not more than $14,300,000 shall 
be made available for obligation in fiscal year 2002 from amounts made 
available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d): Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i) and 5127(d) shall be 
made available for obligation by individuals other than the Secretary of 
Transportation, or his designee.

                       OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General to carry 
out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$50,614,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have all 
necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3) to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department: Provided further, That the funds made available under 
this heading shall be used to investigate, pursuant to section 41712 of 
title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and 
unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air carriers and 
ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and foreign air 
carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.

[[Page 115 STAT. 854]]

                      SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $18,457,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $950,000 
from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface Transportation 
Board shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections 
and used for necessary and authorized expenses under this heading: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund 
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2002, to result in a final 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at no more than 
$17,507,000.

                                TITLE II

                            RELATED AGENCIES

       ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Architectural and Transportation 
Barriers Compliance Board, as authorized by section 502 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $5,015,000: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may be credited to 
this appropriation funds received for publications and training 
expenses.

                  NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902) 
$68,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                                TITLE III

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 301. During the current fiscal year applicable appropriations 
to the Department of Transportation shall be available for maintenance 
and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor vehicles operating 
in foreign countries on official department business; and uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).

[[Page 115 STAT. 855]]

    Sec. 302. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2002 pay 
raises for programs funded in this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act or previous appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 303. Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department of 
Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 304. None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 105 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision or political and Presidential 
appointees in an independent agency funded in this Act may be assigned 
on temporary detail outside the Department of Transportation or such 
independent agency except to the Office of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 305. None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 306. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 307. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
matter of public record and available for public inspection, except 
where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 308. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: 49 USC 5338 note.>> The limitations on obligations 
for the programs of the Federal Transit Administration shall not apply 
to any authority under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for 
obligation, or to any other authority previously made available for 
obligation.

    Sec. 310. <<NOTE: 23 USC 104 note.>> (a) For fiscal year 2002, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid Highways amounts authorized for administrative 
        expenses and programs funded from the administrative takedown 
        authorized by section 104(a)(1)(A) of title 23, United States 
        Code, for the highway use tax evasion program, amounts provided 
        under section 110 of title 23, United States Code, and for the 
        Bureau of Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid Highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts made available from the Highway Trust 
        Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
        highways and highway safety programs for the previous fiscal 
        year the funds for which are allocated by the Secretary;
            (3) determine the ratio that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                Highways less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2), bears to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
                construction

[[Page 115 STAT. 856]]

                programs (other than sums authorized to be appropriated 
                for sections set forth in paragraphs (1) through (7) of 
                subsection (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated 
                for section 105 of title 23, United States Code, equal 
                to the amount referred to in subsection (b)(8)) for such 
                fiscal year less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraph (1) of this subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 117 of title 23, United States 
        Code (relating to high priority projects program), section 201 
        of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, the Woodrow 
        Wilson Memorial Bridge Authority Act of 1995, and $2,000,000,000 
        for such fiscal year under section 105 of title 23, United 
        States Code (relating to minimum guarantee) so that the amount 
        of obligation authority available for each of such sections is 
        equal to the amount determined by multiplying the ratio 
        determined under paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be 
        appropriated for such section (except in the case of section 
        105, $2,000,000,000) for such fiscal year;
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4) for each of the programs that are allocated by the 
        Secretary under title 23, United States Code (other than 
        activities to which paragraph (1) applies and programs to which 
        paragraph (4) applies) by multiplying the ratio determined under 
        paragraph (3) by the sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
        program for such fiscal year; and
            (6) distribute the obligation limitation provided for 
        Federal-aid Highways less the aggregate amounts not distributed 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2) and amounts distributed under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5) for Federal-aid highways and highway 
        safety construction programs (other than the minimum guarantee 
        program, but only to the extent that amounts apportioned for the 
        minimum guarantee program for such fiscal year exceed 
        $2,639,000,000, and the Appalachian development highway system 
        program) that are apportioned by the Secretary under title 23, 
        United States Code, in the ratio that--
                    (A) sums authorized to be appropriated for such 
                programs that are apportioned to each State for such 
                fiscal year, bear to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for such programs that are apportioned to 
                all States for such fiscal year.

    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid Highways shall not apply to obligations: (1) 
under section 125 of title 23, United States Code; (2) under section 147 
of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978; (3) under section 
9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981; (4) under sections 131(b) and 
131( j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; (5) under 
sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface Transportation and Uniform 
Relocation Assistance Act of 1987; (6) under sections 1103 through 1108 
of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991; (7) 
under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, as in effect on the 
day before the date of the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act 
for

[[Page 115 STAT. 857]]

the 21st Century; and (8) under section 105 of title 23, United States 
Code (but, only in an amount equal to $639,000,000 for such fiscal 
year).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall after August 1 for such fiscal year 
revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made available under 
subsection (a) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute sufficient amounts to those 
States able to obligate amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority to those States 
having large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
104 and 144 of title 23, United States Code, section 160 (as in effect 
on the day before the enactment of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century) of title 23, United States Code, and under section 1015 of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
1943-1945).
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--The obligation limitation shall apply to 
transportation research programs carried out under chapter 5 of title 
23, United States Code, except that obligation authority made available 
for such programs under such limitation shall remain available for a 
period of 3 fiscal years.
    (e) Redistribution <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of Certain Authorized 
Funds.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the distribution of 
obligation limitation under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
distribute to the States any funds: (1) that are authorized to be 
appropriated for such fiscal year for Federal-aid highways programs 
(other than the program under section 160 of title 23, United States 
Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of chapter 311 of title 49, 
United States Code, and highway-related programs under chapter 4 of 
title 23, United States Code; and (2) that the Secretary determines will 
not be allocated to the States, and will not be available for 
obligation, in such fiscal year due to the imposition of any obligation 
limitation for such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States shall 
be made in the same ratio as the distribution of obligation authority 
under subsection (a)(6). The funds so distributed shall be available for 
any purposes described in section 133(b) of title 23, United States 
Code.

    (f) Special Rule.--Obligation limitation distributed for a fiscal 
year under subsection (a)(4) of this section for a section set forth in 
subsection (a)(4) shall remain available until used and shall be in 
addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs for future 
fiscal years.
    Sec. 311. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act shall 
disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(3)) 
obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection with a 
motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as provided 
in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not withhold 
funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 312. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to plan, 
finalize, or implement regulations that would establish a vessel traffic 
safety fairway less than five miles wide between

[[Page 115 STAT. 858]]

the Santa Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco 
Traffic Separation Scheme.
    Sec. 313. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44502 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, airports may transfer, without consideration, to the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) instrument landing systems (along 
with associated approach lighting equipment and runway visual range 
equipment) which conform to FAA design and performance specifications, 
the purchase of which was assisted by a Federal airport-aid program, 
airport development aid program or airport improvement program grant: 
Provided, That, the Federal Aviation Administration shall accept such 
equipment, which shall thereafter be operated and maintained by FAA in 
accordance with agency criteria.

    Sec. 314. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except for 
fixed guideway modernization projects, funds made available by this Act 
under ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment grants'' for 
projects specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying 
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2004, and other recoveries, 
shall be made available for other projects under 49 U.S.C. 5309.
    Sec. 315. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2001, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure may 
be transferred to and administered under the most recent appropriation 
heading for any such section.
    Sec. 316. None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate in 
excess of 335 technical staff-years under the federally funded research 
and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 317. Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration from 
States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and private 
sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited respectively 
to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' 
account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Transit Planning and 
Research'' account, and to the Federal Railroad Administration's 
``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State rail safety 
inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 318. Of the funds made available under section 1101(a)(12) and 
section 1503 of Public Law 105-178, as amended, $52,973,000 are 
rescinded.
    Sec. 319. <<NOTE: 49 USC 5327 note.>> Beginning in fiscal year 2002 
and thereafter, the Secretary may use up to 1 percent of the amounts 
made available to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5309 for oversight activities 
under 49 U.S.C. 5327.

    Sec. 320. Funds made available for Alaska or Hawaii ferry boats or 
ferry terminal facilities pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be 
used to construct new vessels and facilities, or to improve existing 
vessels and facilities, including both the passenger and vehicle-related 
elements of such vessels and facilities, and for repair facilities: 
Provided, That not more than $3,000,000 of the funds made available 
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 5309(m)(2)(B) may be used by the State of Hawaii 
to initiate and operate a passenger ferryboat services demonstration 
project to test the viability of different intra-island and inter-island 
ferry routes.

[[Page 115 STAT. 859]]

    Sec. 321. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 111 may be credited to 
the Federal-aid highways account for the purpose of reimbursing the 
Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That such funds shall be subject to 
the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
construction.
    Sec. 322. Section 3030(a) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 373.>> is amended by 
adding at the end, the following line: ``Washington County--Wilsonville 
to Beaverton commuter rail.''.

    Sec. 323. Section 3030(b) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 
21st Century (Public Law 105-178) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 375.>> is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``Detroit, Michigan Metropolitan 
Airport rail project.''.

    Sec. 324. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or expended 
for employee training which: (a) does not meet identified needs for 
knowledge, skills and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of 
official duties; (b) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
emotional response or psychological stress in some participants; (c) 
does not require prior employee notification of the content and methods 
to be used in the training and written end of course evaluations; (d) 
contains any methods or content associated with religious or quasi-
religious belief systems or ``new age'' belief systems as defined in 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated 
September 2, 1988; (e) is offensive to, or designed to change, 
participants' personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or (f) 
includes content related to human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than that necessary to make 
employees more aware of the medical ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the 
workplace rights of HIV-positive employees.
    Sec. 325. None of the funds in this Act shall, in the absence of 
express authorization by Congress, be used directly or indirectly to pay 
for any personal service, advertisement, telegraph, telephone, letter, 
printed or written material, radio, television, video presentation, 
electronic communications, or other device, intended or designed to 
influence in any manner a Member of Congress or of a State legislature 
to favor or oppose by vote or otherwise, any legislation or 
appropriation by Congress or a State legislature after the introduction 
of any bill or resolution in Congress proposing such legislation or 
appropriation, or after the introduction of any bill or resolution in a 
State legislature proposing such legislation or appropriation: Provided, 
That this shall not prevent officers or employees of the Department of 
Transportation or related agencies funded in this Act from communicating 
to Members of Congress or to Congress, on the request of any Member, or 
to members of State legislature, or to a State legislature, through the 
proper official channels, requests for legislation or appropriations 
which they deem necessary for the efficient conduct of business.
    Sec. 326. (a) In General.--None of the funds made available in this 
Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in 
expending the funds the entity will comply with the Buy American Act (41 
U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--

[[Page 115 STAT. 860]]

            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 327. Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and other 
funds received by the Department from travel management centers, charge 
card programs, the subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous 
sources are to be credited to appropriations of the Department and 
allocated to elements of the Department using fair and equitable 
criteria and such funds shall be available until December 31, 2002.
    Sec. 328. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule or 
regulation, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to allow the 
issuer of any preferred stock heretofore sold to the Department to 
redeem or repurchase such stock upon the payment to the Department of an 
amount determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 329. For necessary expenses of the Amtrak Reform Council 
authorized under section 203 of Public Law 105-134, $225,000.
    Sec. 330. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
Act, to enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants for 
surface transportation projects, $144,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 331. During fiscal year 2002, for providing support to the 
Department of Defense, the Coast Guard Yard and other Coast Guard 
specialized facilities designated by the Commandant shall qualify as 
components of the Department of Defense for competition and workload 
assignment purposes: Provided, That in addition, for purposes of 
entering into joint public-private partnerships and other cooperative 
arrangements for the performance of work, the Coast Guard Yard and other 
Coast Guard specialized facilities may enter into agreements or other 
arrangements, receive and retain funds from and pay funds to such public 
and private entities, and may accept contributions of funds, materials, 
services, and the use of facilities from such entities: Provided 
further, That amounts received under this section may be credited to 
appropriate Coast Guard accounts for fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 332. None of the funds in this Act may be used to make a grant 
unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the House

[[Page 115 STAT. 861]]

and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full business 
days before any discretionary grant award, letter of intent, or full 
funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more is announced by the 
department or its modal administrations from: (1) any discretionary 
grant program of the Federal Highway Administration other than the 
emergency relief program; (2) the airport improvement program of the 
Federal Aviation Administration; or (3) any program of the Federal 
Transit Administration other than the formula grants and fixed guideway 
modernization programs: Provided, That no notification shall involve 
funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 333. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
available for the design or construction of a light rail system in 
Houston, Texas.
    (b) Notwithstanding (a), amounts made available in this Act under 
the heading ``Federal Transit Administration, Capital investment 
grants'' for a Houston, Texas, Metro advanced transit plan project shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure subject to the following 
conditions:
            (1) Sufficient amounts shall be used for major investment 
        studies in 4 major corridors.
            (2) The Texas Department of Transportation shall review and 
        comment on the findings of the studies under paragraph (1). Any 
        comments by such department on such findings shall be included 
        in any final report on such studies.
            (3) If a final report on the studies under paragraph (1) is 
        not available for at least the 1-month period preceding the date 
        of any referendum held by the City of Houston, Texas, or by a 
        county of Texas, regarding approval of the issuance of bonds for 
        funding a light rail system in Houston, Texas, all information 
        developed by such studies regarding passenger and cost estimates 
        for such a system shall be made available to the public at least 
        1 month before the date of the referendum.

    Sec. 334. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for engineering work related to an additional runway at New Orleans 
International Airport.
    Sec. 335. None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide to 
the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building construction, 
maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport sponsor-owned 
buildings for services relating to air traffic control, air navigation 
or weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of funds in this 
section does not apply to negotiations between the agency and airport 
sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' rates for these items 
or to grant assurances that require airport sponsors to provide land 
without cost to the FAA for air traffic control facilities.
    Sec. 336. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever an 
allocation is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
expenditure on the Federal lands highway program, and whenever an 
apportionment is made of the sums authorized to be appropriated for 
expenditure on the surface transportation program, the congestion 
mitigation and air quality improvement program, the National Highway 
System, the Interstate maintenance program, the bridge program, the 
Appalachian development highway system, and the minimum guarantee 
program, the Secretary of Transportation shall deduct a sum in such 
amount not to exceed two-

[[Page 115 STAT. 862]]

fifths of 1 percent of all sums so made available, as the Secretary 
determines necessary, to administer the provisions of law to be financed 
from appropriations for motor carrier safety programs and motor carrier 
safety research. The sum so deducted shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That any deduction by the Secretary of 
Transportation in accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed to be a 
deduction under section 104(a)(1)(B) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 337. For an airport project that the Administrator of the 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) determines will add critical 
airport capacity to the national air transportation system, the 
Administrator is authorized to accept funds from an airport sponsor, 
including entitlement funds provided under the ``Grants-in-Aid for 
Airports'' program, for the FAA to hire additional staff or obtain the 
services of consultants: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized 
to accept and utilize such funds only for the purpose of facilitating 
the timely processing, review, and completion of environmental 
activities associated with such project.
    Sec. 338. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to further any efforts toward developing a new regional airport for 
southeast Louisiana until a comprehensive plan is submitted by a 
commission of stakeholders to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration and that plan, as approved by the Administrator, is 
submitted to and approved by the Senate Committee on Appropriations and 
the House Committee on Appropriations.
    Sec. 339. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, States may use 
funds provided in this Act under section 402 of title 23, United States 
Code, to produce and place highway safety public service messages in 
television, radio, cinema and print media, and on the Internet in 
accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of Transportation: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Reports.>> That any State that uses funds for such 
public service messages shall submit to the Secretary a report 
describing and assessing the effectiveness of the messages: Provided 
further, That $8,000,000 of the funds allocated for innovative seat belt 
projects under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, shall be 
used by the States, as directed by the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administrator, to purchase advertising in broadcast or print media to 
publicize the States' seat belt enforcement efforts during one or more 
of the Operation ABC National Mobilizations: Provided further, That up 
to $2,000,000 of the funds allocated for innovative seat belt projects 
under section 157 of title 23, United States Code, shall be used by the 
Administrator to evaluate the effectiveness of State seat belt programs 
that purchase advertising as provided by this section.

    Sec. 340. Item 1348 of the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 306.>>  
is amended by striking ``Extend West Douglas Road'' and inserting 
``Construct Gastineau Channel Second Crossing to Douglas Island''.

    Sec. 341. None of the funds in this Act may be obligated for the 
Office of the Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or 
reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.

[[Page 115 STAT. 863]]

    Sec. 342. Item 642 in the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, relating to 
Washington, <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 281.>> is amended by striking ``Construct 
passenger ferry facility to serve Southworth, Seattle'' and inserting 
``Passenger only ferry to serve Kitsap and King Counties to Seattle''.

    Sec. 343. Item 1793 in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act 
for the 21st Century, relating to Washington, <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 
322.>> is amended by striking ``Southworth Seattle Ferry'' and inserting 
``Passenger only ferry to serve Kitsap and King Counties to Seattle''.

    Sec. 344. Item 576 in the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 278) is 
amended by striking ``Bull Shoals Lake Ferry in Taney County'' and 
inserting ``Construct the Missouri Center for Advanced Highway Safety 
(MOCAHS)''.
    Sec. 345. The transit station operated by the Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority located at Ronald Reagan Washington 
National Airport, and known as the National Airport Station, shall be 
known and designated as the ``Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport 
Station''. The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority shall 
modify the signs at the transit station, and all maps, directories, 
documents, and other records published by the Authority, to reflect the 
redesignation.
    Sec. 346. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
in this Act may be made available to any person or entity convicted of 
violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 347. For fiscal year 2002, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, historic covered bridges eligible for Federal assistance under 
section 1224 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, as 
amended, may be funded from amounts set aside for the discretionary 
bridge program.
    Sec. 348. None of the funds provided in this Act or prior 
Appropriations Acts for Coast Guard ``Acquisition, construction, and 
improvements'' shall be available after the fifteenth day of any quarter 
of any fiscal year, unless the Commandant of the Coast Guard first 
submits a quarterly report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on all major Coast Guard acquisition projects including 
projects executed for the Coast Guard by the United States Navy and 
vessel traffic service projects: Provided, That such reports shall 
include an acquisition schedule, estimated current and year funding 
requirements, and a schedule of anticipated obligations and outlays for 
each major acquisition project: Provided further, That such reports 
shall rate on a relative scale the cost risk, schedule risk, and 
technical risk associated with each acquisition project and include a 
table detailing unobligated balances to date and anticipated unobligated 
balances at the close of the fiscal year and the close of the following 
fiscal year should the Administration's pending budget request for the 
acquisition, construction, and improvements account be fully funded: 
Provided further, That such reports shall also provide abbreviated 
information on the status of shore facility construction and renovation 
projects: Provided further, That all information submitted in such 
reports shall be current as of the last day of the preceding quarter.
    Sec. 349. Funds provided in this Act for the Transportation 
Administrative Service Center (TASC) shall be reduced by $5,000,000, 
which limits fiscal year 2002 TASC obligational authority for elements 
of the Department of Transportation funded

[[Page 115 STAT. 864]]

in this Act to no more than $120,323,000: Provided, That such reductions 
from the budget request shall be allocated by the Department of 
Transportation to each appropriations account in proportion to the 
amount included in each account for the Transportation Administrative 
Service Center.
    Sec. 350. Safety <<NOTE: 49 USC 13902 note.>> of Cross-Border 
Trucking Between United States and Mexico. (a) No funds limited or 
appropriated in this Act may be obligated or expended for the review or 
processing of an application by a Mexican motor carrier for authority to 
operate beyond United States municipalities and commercial zones on the 
United States-Mexico border until the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration--
            (1)(A) requires a safety examination of such motor carrier 
        to be performed before the carrier is granted conditional 
        operating authority to operate beyond United States 
        municipalities and commercial zones on the United States-Mexico 
        border;
            (B) requires the safety examination to include--
                    (i) verification of available performance data and 
                safety management programs;
                    (ii) verification of a drug and alcohol testing 
                program consistent with part 40 of title 49, Code of 
                Federal Regulations;
                    (iii) verification of that motor carrier's system of 
                compliance with hours-of-service rules, including hours-
                of-service records;
                    (iv) verification of proof of insurance;
                    (v) a review of available data concerning that motor 
                carrier's safety history, and other information 
                necessary to determine the carrier's preparedness to 
                comply with Federal Motor Carrier Safety rules and 
                regulations and Hazardous Materials rules and 
                regulations;
                    (vi) an inspection of that Mexican motor carrier's 
                commercial vehicles to be used under such operating 
                authority, if any such commercial vehicles have not 
                received a decal from the inspection required in 
                subsection (a)(5);
                    (vii) an evaluation of that motor carrier's safety 
                inspection, maintenance, and repair facilities or 
                management systems, including verification of records of 
                periodic vehicle inspections;
                    (viii) verification of drivers' qualifications, 
                including a confirmation of the validity of the Licencia 
                de Federal de Conductor of each driver of that motor 
                carrier who will be operating under such authority; and
                    (ix) an interview with officials of that motor 
                carrier to review safety management controls and 
                evaluate any written safety oversight policies and 
                practices.
            (C) requires that--
                    (i) Mexican motor carriers with three or fewer 
                commercial vehicles need not undergo on-site safety 
                examination; however 50 percent of all safety 
                examinations of all Mexican motor carriers shall be 
                conducted onsite; and
                    (ii) such on-site inspections shall cover at least 
                50 percent of estimated truck traffic in any year.
            (2) requires a full safety compliance review of the carrier 
        consistent with the safety fitness evaluation procedures set 
        forth in part 385 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, and 
        gives the motor carrier a satisfactory rating, before the

[[Page 115 STAT. 865]]

        carrier is granted permanent operating authority to operate 
        beyond United States municipalities and commercial zones on the 
        United States-Mexico border, and requires that any such safety 
        compliance review take place within 18 months of that motor 
        carrier being granted conditional operating authority, provided 
        that--
                    (A) Mexican motor carriers with three or fewer 
                commercial vehicles need not undergo onsite compliance 
                review; however 50 percent of all compliance reviews of 
                all Mexican motor carriers shall be conducted on-site; 
                and
                    (B) any Mexican motor carrier with 4 or more 
                commercial vehicles that did not undergo an on-site 
                safety exam under (a)(1)(C), shall undergo an on-site 
                safety compliance review under this section.
            (3) requires Federal and State inspectors to verify 
        electronically the status and validity of the license of each 
        driver of a Mexican motor carrier commercial vehicle crossing 
        the border;
                    (A) for every such vehicle carrying a placardable 
                quantity of hazardous materials;
                    (B) whenever the inspection required in subsection 
                (a)(5) is performed; and
                    (C) randomly for other Mexican motor carrier 
                commercial vehicles, but in no case less than 50 percent 
                of all other such commercial vehicles.
            (4) gives a distinctive Department of Transportation number 
        to each Mexican motor carrier operating beyond the commercial 
        zone to assist inspectors in enforcing motor carrier safety 
        regulations including hours-of-service rules under part 395 of 
        title 49, Code of Federal Regulations;
            (5) requires, with the exception of Mexican motor carriers 
        that have been granted permanent operating authority for three 
        consecutive years--
                    (A) inspections of all commercial vehicles of 
                Mexican motor carriers authorized, or seeking authority 
                to operate beyond United States municipalities and 
                commercial zones on the United States-Mexico border that 
                do not display a valid Commercial Vehicle Safety 
                Alliance inspection decal, by certified inspectors in 
                accordance with the requirements for a Level I 
                Inspection under the criteria of the North American 
                Standard Inspection (as defined in section 350.105 of 
                title 49, Code of Federal Regulations), including 
                examination of the driver, vehicle exterior and vehicle 
                under-carriage;
                    (B) a Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance decal to be 
                affixed to each such commercial vehicle upon completion 
                of the inspection required by clause (A) or a re-
                inspection if the vehicle has met the criteria for the 
                Level I inspection; and
                    (C) that any such decal, when affixed, expire at the 
                end of a period of not more than 90 days, but nothing in 
                this paragraph shall be construed to preclude the 
                Administration from requiring reinspection of a vehicle 
                bearing a valid inspection decal or from requiring that 
                such a decal be removed when a certified Federal or 
                State inspector determines that such a vehicle has a 
                safety violation subsequent to the inspection for which 
                the decal was granted.

[[Page 115 STAT. 866]]

            (6) requires State inspectors who detect violations of 
        Federal motor carrier safety laws or regulations to enforce them 
        or notify Federal authorities of such violations;
            (7)(A) equips all United States-Mexico commercial border 
        crossings with scales suitable for enforcement action; equips 5 
        of the 10 such crossings that have the highest volume of 
        commercial vehicle traffic with weigh-in-motion (WIM) systems; 
        ensures that the remaining 5 such border crossings are equipped 
        within 12 months; requires inspectors to verify the weight of 
        each Mexican motor carrier commercial vehicle entering the 
        United States at said WIM equipped high volume border crossings; 
        and
            (B) initiates a study to determine which other crossings 
        should also be equipped with weigh-in-motion systems;
            (8) the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has 
        implemented a policy to ensure that no Mexican motor carrier 
        will be granted authority to operate beyond United States 
        municipalities and commercial zones on the United States-Mexico 
        border unless that carrier provides proof of valid insurance 
        with an insurance company licensed in the United States;
            (9) requires commercial vehicles operated by a Mexican motor 
        carrier to enter the United States only at commercial border 
        crossings where and when a certified motor carrier safety 
        inspector is on duty and where adequate capacity exists to 
        conduct a sufficient number of meaningful vehicle safety 
        inspections and to accommodate vehicles placed out-of-service as 
        a result of said inspections.
            (10) <<NOTE: Publication.>> publishes--
                    (A) interim final regulations under section 210(b) 
                of the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of 1999 (49 
                U.S.C. 31144 note) that establish minimum requirements 
                for motor carriers, including foreign motor carriers, to 
                ensure they are knowledgeable about Federal safety 
                standards, that may include the administration of a 
                proficiency examination;
                    (B) interim final regulations under section 31148 of 
                title 49, United States Code, that implement measures to 
                improve training and provide for the certification of 
                motor carrier safety auditors;
                    (C) a policy under sections 218(a) and (b) of that 
                Act (49 U.S.C. 31133 note) establishing standards for 
                the determination of the appropriate number of Federal 
                and State motor carrier inspectors for the United 
                States-Mexico border;
                    (D) a policy under section 219(d) of that Act (49 
                U.S.C. 14901 note) that prohibits foreign motor carriers 
                from leasing vehicles to another carrier to transport 
                products to the United States while the lessor is 
                subject to a suspension, restriction, or limitation on 
                its right to operate in the United States; and
                    (E) a policy under section 219(a) of that Act (49 
                U.S.C. 14901 note) that prohibits foreign motor carriers 
                from operating in the United States that is found to 
                have operated illegally in the United States.

    (b) No vehicles owned or leased by a Mexican motor carrier and 
carrying hazardous materials in a placardable quantity may be permitted 
to operate beyond a United States municipality or

[[Page 115 STAT. 867]]

commercial zone until the United States has completed an agreement with 
the Government of Mexico which ensures that drivers of such vehicles 
carrying such placardable quantities of hazardous materials meet 
substantially the same requirements as United States drivers carrying 
such materials.
    (c) No vehicles owned or leased by a Mexican motor carrier may be 
permitted to operate beyond United States municipalities and commercial 
zones under conditional or permanent operating authority granted by the 
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration until--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> the Department of Transportation 
        Inspector General conducts a comprehensive review of border 
        operations within 180 days of enactment to verify that--
                    (A) all new inspector positions funded under this 
                Act have been filled and the inspectors have been fully 
                trained;
                    (B) each inspector conducting on-site safety 
                compliance reviews in Mexico consistent with the safety 
                fitness evaluation procedures set forth in part 385 of 
                title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, is fully trained 
                as a safety specialist;
                    (C) the requirement of subparagraph (a)(2) has not 
                been met by transferring experienced inspectors from 
                other parts of the United States to the United States-
                Mexico border, undermining the level of inspection 
                coverage and safety elsewhere in the United States;
                    (D) the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration 
                has implemented a policy to ensure compliance with 
                hours-of-service rules under part 395 of title 49, Code 
                of Federal Regulations, by Mexican motor carriers 
                seeking authority to operate beyond United States 
                municipalities and commercial zones on the United 
                States-Mexico border;
                    (E) the information infrastructure of the Mexican 
                government is sufficiently accurate, accessible, and 
                integrated with that of United States enforcement 
                authorities to allow United States authorities to verify 
                the status and validity of licenses, vehicle 
                registrations, operating authority and insurance of 
                Mexican motor carriers while operating in the United 
                States, and that adequate telecommunications links exist 
                at all United States-Mexico border crossings used by 
                Mexican motor carrier commercial vehicles, and in all 
                mobile enforcement units operating adjacent to the 
                border, to ensure that licenses, vehicle registrations, 
                operating authority and insurance information can be 
                easily and quickly verified at border crossings or by 
                mobile enforcement units;
                    (F) there is adequate capacity at each United 
                States-Mexico border crossing used by Mexican motor 
                carrier commercial vehicles to conduct a sufficient 
                number of meaningful vehicle safety inspections and to 
                accommodate vehicles placed out-of-service as a result 
                of said inspections;
                    (G) there is an accessible database containing 
                sufficiently comprehensive data to allow safety 
                monitoring of all Mexican motor carriers that apply for 
                authority to operate commercial vehicles beyond United 
                States municipalities and commercial zones on the United 
                States-Mexico border and the drivers of those vehicles; 
                and

[[Page 115 STAT. 868]]

                    (H) measures are in place to enable United States 
                law enforcement authorities to ensure the effective 
                enforcement and monitoring of license revocation and 
                licensing procedures of Mexican motor carriers.
            (2) <<NOTE: Certification.>> The Secretary of Transportation 
        certifies in writing in a manner addressing the Inspector 
        General's findings in paragraphs (c)(1)(A) through (c)(1)(H) of 
        this section that the opening of the border does not pose an 
        unacceptable safety risk to the American public.

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Department of Transportation Inspector 
General shall conduct another review using the criteria in (c)(1)(A) 
through (c)(1)(H) consistent with paragraph (c) of this section, 180 
days after the first review is completed, and at least annually 
thereafter.

    (e) For purposes of this section, the term ``Mexican motor carrier'' 
shall be defined as a Mexico-domiciled motor carrier operating beyond 
United States municipalities and commercial zones on the United States-
Mexico border.
    (f) In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this Act, to 
be derived from the Highway Trust Fund, there is hereby appropriated to 
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, $25,866,000 for the 
salary, expense, and capital costs associated with the requirements of 
this section.
    Sec. 351. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purpose of calculating the non-federal contribution to the net project 
cost of the Regional Transportation Commission Resort Corridor Fixed 
Guideway Project in Clark County, Nevada, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall include all non-federal contributions (whether 
public or private) made on or after January 1, 2000 for engineering, 
final design, and construction of any element or phase of the project, 
including any fixed guideway project or segment connecting to that 
project, and also shall allow non-federal funds (whether public or 
private) expended on one element or phase of the project to be used to 
meet the non-federal share requirement of any element or phase of the 
project.
    Sec. 352. (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The condition of highway, railway, and waterway 
        infrastructure across the Nation varies widely and is in need of 
        improvement and investment.
            (2) Thousands of tons of hazardous materials, including a 
        very small amount of high-level radioactive material, are 
        transported along the Nation's highways, railways, and waterways 
        each year.
            (3) The volume of hazardous material transport increased by 
        over one-third in the last 25 years and is expected to continue 
        to increase. Some propose significantly increasing radioactive 
        material transport.
            (4) Approximately 261,000 people were evacuated across the 
        Nation because of rail-related incidents involving hazardous 
        materials between 1978 and 1995, and during that period industry 
        reported 8 transportation accidents involving the small volume 
        of high level radioactive waste transported during that period.
            (5) The Federal Railroad Administration has significantly 
        decreased railroad inspections and has allocated few resources 
        since 1993 to assure the structural integrity of railroad 
        bridges. Train derailments have increased by 18 percent over 
        roughly the same period.

[[Page 115 STAT. 869]]

            (6) The poor condition of highway, railway, and waterway 
        infrastructure, increases in the volume of hazardous material 
        transport, and proposed increases in radioactive material 
        transport increase the risk of incidents involving such 
        materials.
            (7) Measuring the risks of hazardous or radioactive material 
        incidents and preventing such incidents requires specific 
        information concerning the condition and suitability of specific 
        transportation routes contemplated for such transport to inform 
        and enable investment in related infrastructure.
            (8) Mitigating the impact of hazardous and radioactive 
        material transportation incidents requires skilled, localized, 
        and well-equipped emergency response personnel along all 
        specifically identified transportation routes.
            (9) Incidents involving hazardous or radioactive material 
        transport pose threats to the public health and safety, the 
        environment, and the economy.

    (b) Study.--The Secretary of Transportation shall, in consultation 
with the Comptroller General of the United States, conduct a study of 
the effects to public health and safety, the environment, and the 
economy associated with the transportation of hazardous and radioactive 
material.
    (c) Matters to be Addressed.--The study under subsection (b) shall 
address the following matters:
            (1) Whether the Federal Government conducts or reviews 
        individualized and detailed evaluations and inspections of the 
        condition and suitability of specific transportation routes for 
        the current, and any anticipated or proposed, transport of 
        hazardous and radioactive material, including whether resources 
        and information are adequate to conduct such evaluations and 
        inspections.
            (2) The costs and time required to ensure adequate 
        inspection of specific transportation routes and related 
        infrastructure and to complete the infrastructure improvements 
        necessary to ensure the safety of current, and any anticipated 
        or proposed, hazardous and radioactive material transport.
            (3) Whether emergency preparedness personnel, emergency 
        response personnel, and medical personnel are adequately trained 
        and equipped to promptly respond to incidents along specific 
        transportation routes for current, anticipated, or proposed 
        hazardous and radioactive material transport.
            (4) The costs and time required to ensure that emergency 
        preparedness personnel, emergency response personnel, and 
        medical personnel are adequately trained and equipped to 
        promptly respond to incidents along specific transportation 
        routes for current, anticipated, or proposed hazardous and 
        radioactive material transport.
            (5) The availability of, or requirements to, establish 
        governmental and commercial information collection and 
        dissemination systems adequate to provide public and emergency 
        responders in an accessible manner, with timely, complete, 
        specific, and accurate information (including databases) 
        concerning actual, proposed, or anticipated shipments by 
        highway, railway, or waterway of hazardous and radioactive 
        materials, including incidents involving the transportation of 
        such materials by those means and the public safety implications 
        of such dissemination.

[[Page 115 STAT. 870]]

    (d) Deadline for Completion.--The study under subsection (b) shall 
be completed not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (e) Report.--Upon completion of the study under subsection (b), the 
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the study.
    Sec. 353. <<NOTE: State listing.>> In selecting projects to carry 
out using funds apportioned under section 110 of title 23, United States 
Code, the States of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi shall give 
priority consideration to the following projects:
            (1) Improving Johnson Ferry Road from the Chattahoochee 
        River to Abernathy Road, including the bridge over the 
        Chattahoochee River, Georgia.
            (2) Widening Abernathy Road from 2 to 4 lanes from Johnson 
        Ferry Road to Roswell Road, Georgia.
            (3) Constructing approaches to the Patton Island Bridge, 
        Alabama.
            (4) Planning, design, engineering, and construction of an 
        interchange on I-55, at approximately mile marker 114, and 
        connector roads in Madison County, Mississippi.

    Sec. 354. Section 355(a) of the National Highway System Designation 
Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 624) is amended by striking ``has achieved'' and 
all that follows and inserting the following: ``has achieved a safety 
belt use rate of not less than 50 percent.''.
    Sec. 355. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports. Tennessee.>> Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall conduct a study and submit to Congress a report on 
the costs and benefits of constructing a third bridge across the 
Mississippi River in the Memphis, Tennessee, metropolitan area.

    Sec. 356. (a) Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Section 345 of the National Highway System Designation 
        Act of 1995 authorizes limited relief to drivers of certain 
        types of commercial motor vehicles from certain restrictions on 
        maximum driving time and on-duty time.
            (2) Subsection (c) of that section requires the Secretary of 
        Transportation to determine by rulemaking proceedings that the 
        exemptions granted are not in the public interest and adversely 
        affect the safety of commercial motor vehicles.
            (3) Subsection (d) of that section requires the Secretary of 
        Transportation to monitor the safety performance of drivers of 
        commercial motor vehicles who are subject to an exemption under 
        section 345 and report to Congress prior to the rulemaking 
        proceedings.

    (b) It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Transportation 
should not take any action that would diminish or revoke any exemption 
in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act for drivers of 
vehicles under section 345 of the National Highway System Designation 
Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-59; 109 Stat. 613; 49 U.S.C. 31136 note) 
unless the requirements of subsections (c) and (d) of such section are 
satisfied.
    Sec. 357. <<NOTE: Government organization.>> Point Retreat Light 
Station shall be transferred to the Alaska Lighthouse Association 
consistent with the terms and conditions of section 416(b)(2) of Public 
Law 105-383.

    Sec. 358. Priority Highway Projects, Minnesota. In selecting 
projects to carry out using funds apportioned under section 110 of title 
23, United States Code, the State of Minnesota shall give priority 
consideration to the following projects:

[[Page 115 STAT. 871]]

            (1) The Southeast Main and Rail Relocation Project in 
        Moorhead, Minnesota.
            (2) Improving access to and from I-35 W at Lake Street in 
        Minneapolis, Minnesota.

    Sec. 359. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall approve the use of funds apportioned under 
paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States 
Code, for construction of Type II noise barriers--
            (1) at the locations identified in section 358 of the 
        Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
        Act, 2000 (113 Stat. 1027);
            (2) on the west side of Interstate Route 285 from Henderson 
        Mill Road to Chamblee Tucker Road in DeKalb County, Georgia;
            (3) on the east and west side of Interstate Route 85, 
        extending from Virginia Avenue to Metropolitan Parkway in Fulton 
        County, Georgia;
            (4) on the east and west sides of Interstate 285 from the 
        South Fulton Parkway/Interstate Route 85 interchange north to 
        Interstate Route 20;
            (5) on the east side of Interstate Route 75 from Howell Mill 
        Road to West Paces Ferry Road in Fulton County, Georgia;
            (6) on the east and west sides of Interstate Route 75 
        between Chastain Road and Georgia State Route 92 in Cobb and 
        Cherokee Counties, Georgia; and
            (7) on the south side of Interstate 95 in Bensalem Township, 
        between exit 25 and exit 26, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.

    Sec. 360. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
apportioned to the State of Oklahoma under section 110 of title 23, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2001, the $4,300,000 specified under 
the heading ``Federal-Aid Highways (Limitation on Obligations)'' in the 
Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2001 (Public Law 106-346) for reconstruction of U.S. 177 in the vicinity 
of Cimarron River, Oklahoma, shall be available instead only for the 
widening of U.S. 177 from SH-33 to 32nd Street in Stillwater, Oklahoma, 
and such amount shall be subject to the provisions of the last proviso 
under such heading.
    Sec. 361. Section 3030(d)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for 
the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178) <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 379.>> is 
amended by inserting at the end:
                    ``(D) Alabama State Docks intermodal passenger and 
                freight facility.''.

    Sec. 362. Section 1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2032) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(44) The Louisiana Highway 1 corridor from Grand Isle, 
        Louisiana, along Louisiana Highway 1, to the intersection with 
        United States Route 90.''.

    Sec. 363. Item 425 in the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 272) is 
amended by striking ``Extend'' and all that follows through ``Parish'' 
and inserting the following: ``Extend and improve Louisiana Route 42 
from and along U.S. 61 to I-10 in Ascension and East Baton Rouge 
Parishes''.
    Sec. 364. Items 111 and 1583 in the table contained in section 1602 
of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (112

[[Page 115 STAT. 872]]

Stat. 261 and 315), relating to Kentucky, are each amended by inserting 
after ``Paducah'' the following: ``and other areas in the city of 
Paducah and McCracken County, Kentucky''.
    Sec. 365. (a) Section 1105(c)(3) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240), as 
amended, <<NOTE: 105 Stat. 2032.>> is hereby further amended by 
striking: ``then to a Kentucky Corridor centered on the cities of 
Pikeville, Jenkins, Hazard, London, Somerset, Columbia, Bowling Green, 
Hopkinsville, Benton, and Paducah'' and inserting: ``then to a Kentucky 
Corridor centered on the cities of Pikeville, Jenkins, Hazard, London, 
and Somerset; then, generally following the Louie B. Nunn Parkway 
corridor from Somerset to Columbia, to Glasgow, to I-65; then to Bowling 
Green, Hopkinsville, Benton, and Paducah''.

    (b) Section 1105(e)(5)(A) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240), as amended, is hereby 
further amended by inserting after ``subsection (c)(1)'', the following: 
``subsection (c)(3) (solely as it relates to the Kentucky Corridor),''.
    Sec. 366. Section 1105(c)(18) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240), as amended, 
is hereby further amended by adding:
                    ``(E) In Kentucky, the corridor shall utilize the 
                existing Purchase Parkway from the Tennessee State line 
                to Interstate 24.''.

    Sec. 367. Section 1105(e)(5)(B)(i) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240), as amended, 
is hereby further amended by adding: ``The Louie B. Nunn Parkway 
corridor referred to in subsection (c)(3) shall be designated as 
Interstate Route 66. A State having jurisdiction over any segment of 
routes and/or corridors referred to in subsections (c)(3) shall erect 
signs identifying such segment that is consistent with the criteria set 
forth in subsections (e)(5)(A)(i) and (e)(5)(A)(ii) as Interstate Route 
66. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (e)(5)(A)(i) and 
(e)(5)(A)(ii), or any other provisions of this Act, the Commonwealth of 
Kentucky shall erect signs, as approved by the Secretary, identifying 
the routes and/or corridors described in subsection (c)(3) for the 
Commonwealth, as segments of future Interstate Route 66. The Purchase 
Parkway corridor referred to in subsection (c)(18)(E) shall be 
designated as Interstate Route 69. A State having jurisdiction over any 
segment of routes and/or corridors referred to in subsections (c)(18) 
shall erect signs identifying such segment that is consistent with the 
criteria set forth in subsections (e)(5)(A)(i) and (e)(5)(A)(ii) as 
Interstate Route 69. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections 
(e)(5)(A)(i) and (e)(5)(A)(ii), or any other provisions of this Act, the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall erect signs, as approved by the 
Secretary, identifying the routes and/or corridors described in 
subsection (c)(18) for the Commonwealth, as segments of future 
Interstate Route 69.''.
    Sec. 368. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds made 
available to the southern coalition for advanced transportation (SCAT) 
in the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2000, Public Law 106-69, under Capital Investment Grants, or 
identified in the conference report accompanying the Department of 
Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, Public Law 
106-346, that remain unobligated shall be transferred to Transit 
Planning and

[[Page 115 STAT. 873]]

Research and made available to the electric transit vehicle institute 
(ETVI) in Tennessee for research administered under the provisions of 49 
U.S.C. 5312.
    Sec. 369. Chapter 9 of title II of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (Public Law 107-20) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 187.>> is amended by 
deleting the heading ``(Highway Trust Fund)'' under the heading 
``Federal-aid Highways''; and inserting in the body under the heading 
``Federal-aid Highways'' after ``available'' the following: ``from the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the mass transit account) or the general 
fund''; and striking ``103-311'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``103-
331''.

    Sec. 370. Notwithstanding the project descriptions contained in 
table item number 865 of section 1602 of Public Law 105-178, table item 
number 77 of section 1106(a) of Public Law 102-240 and section 1069(d) 
relating to the Riverside Expressway in Fairmont, West Virginia, amounts 
available under such provision shall be available to carry out any 
project eligible under title 23, United States Code, in the vicinity of 
Fairmont, West Virginia.
    Sec. 371. Item 71 in the table contained in section 1602 of the 
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 105-
178, <<NOTE: 112 Stat. 259.>> is amended by replacing ``restore First 
and Main Streets to two-way traffic'' with ``traffic safety and 
pedestrian improvements in downtown Miamisburg''.

    Sec. 372. Item 258 in the table under the heading ``Capital 
Investment Grants'' in title I of the Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-69; 113 Stat. 
1006) is amended by striking ``Killington-Sherburne satellite bus 
facility'' and inserting ``Marble Valley Regional Transit District 
buses''.
    Sec. 373. Of the funds available in item 73 of the table contained 
in section 1106(b) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240), $5,700,000 shall be available for 
construction of a parking facility for the inner harbor/redevelopment 
project in Buffalo, New York.
    Sec. 374. Of the funds available in item 630 of the table contained 
in section 1602 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century 
(Public Law 105-178) as amended by section 1102 of chapter 11 of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-554) shall be 
available for the construction of a parking facility for the inner 
harbor/redevelopment project in Buffalo, New York.

[[Page 115 STAT. 874]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002''.

    Approved December 18, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2299 (S. 1178):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-108 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-308 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-38 accompanying S. 1178 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            June 26, considered and passed House.
            July 19, 20, 23-27, Aug. 1, considered and passed Senate,
            amended.
            Nov. 30, House agreed to conference report.
            Dec. 4, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            Dec. 18, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>