[107th Congress Public Law 67]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ067.107]


[[Page 513]]

        TREASURY AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 514]]

Public Law 107-67
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
   Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 2001 -  [H.R. 2590]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Treasury and 
General Government Appropriations Act, 2002.>>  That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States Postal 
Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain Independent 
Agencies, for the fiscal year ending Sep-tember 30, 2002, and for other 
purposes, namely:

    TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY <<NOTE: Treasury Department 
Appropriations Act, 2002.>> 

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $3,500,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$3,813,000, to remain available until expended for information 
technology modernization requirements; not to exceed $150,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate, $177,142,000: Provided, That of 
these amounts $2,900,000 is available for grants to State and local law 
enforcement groups to help fight money laundering: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That of these amounts $2,000,000 shall be 
available for a grant associated with research on transfer pricing, and 
that such sum shall be transferred within 90 days of enactment of this 
Act.

        Department-Wide Systems and Capital Investments Programs

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services for the Department of the
Treasury, $68,828,000, to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That these funds shall be transferred to accounts and in

[[Page 115 STAT. 515]]

amounts as necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Department's 
offices, bureaus, and other organizations: Provided further, That this 
transfer authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided in this Act: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated shall be used to support or supplement the Internal Revenue 
Service appropriations for Information Systems.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, not to exceed $2,000,000 for official travel expenses, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed $100,000 
for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury, 
$35,424,000.

            Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only for 
police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; not to 
exceed $6,000,000 for official travel expenses; and not to exceed 
$500,000 for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be 
allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector General for 
Tax Administration, $123,746,000.

           Treasury Building and Annex Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury Building 
and Annex, $28,932,000, to remain available until expended.

                  Expanded Access to Financial Services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    To develop and implement programs to expand access to financial 
services for low- and moderate-income individuals, $2,000,000, such 
funds to become available upon authorization of this program as provided 
by law and to remain available until expended: Provided, That of these 
funds, such sums as may be necessary may be transferred to accounts of 
the Department's offices, bureaus, and other organizations: Provided 
further, That this transfer
authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority pro-
vided in this Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 516]]

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal law enforcement 
agencies, with or without reimbursement, $45,837,000, of which not to 
exceed $3,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2004; and 
of which $7,790,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2003: 
Provided, That funds appropriated in this account may be used to procure 
personal services contracts.

                          Counterterrorism Fund

    For necessary expenses, as determined by the Secretary, $40,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, to reimburse any Department of the 
Treasury organization for the costs of providing support to counter, 
investigate, or prosecute unexpected threats or acts of terrorism, 
including payment of rewards in connection with these activities: 
Provided, That use of such funds shall be subject to prior notification 
of the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with guidelines for 
reprogramming and transfer of funds.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement
Training Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury,
including materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement
basic training; purchase (not to exceed 52 for police-type use, with-
out regard to the general purchase price limitation) and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and
related activities; uniforms without regard to the general purchase
price limitation for the current fiscal year; the conducting of and
participating in firearms matches and presentation of awards; for
public awareness and enhancing community support of law enforce-
ment training; not to exceed $11,500 for official reception and
representation expenses; room and board for student interns; and
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $105,680,000, of which
$650,000 shall be available for an interagency effort to establish
written standards on accreditation of Federal law enforcement
training; and of which up to $18,892,000 for materials and support
costs of Federal law enforcement basic training shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2004, and of which up to 20 percent
of the $18,892,000 also shall be available for travel, room and
board costs for participating agency basic training during the first
quarter of a fiscal year, subject to full reimbursement by the benefit-
ting agency: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 3771 note.>>  That the Center is 
authorized to accept
and use gifts of property, both real and personal, and to accept
services, for authorized purposes, including funding of a gift of
intrinsic value which shall be awarded annually by the Director
of the Center to the outstanding student who graduated from a

[[Page 115 STAT. 517]]

basic training program at the Center during the previous fiscal year, 
which shall be funded only by gifts received through the Center's gift 
authority: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, students attending training at any Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center site shall reside in on-Center or Center-provided housing, 
insofar as available and in accordance with Center policy: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this account shall be available, at 
the discretion of the Director, for the following: training United 
States Postal Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police 
officers; State and local government law enforcement training on a 
space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation, except that reimbursement may be waived by the Secretary 
for law enforcement training activities in foreign countries undertaken 
pursuant to section 801 of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty 
Act of 1996, Public Law 104-32; training of private sector security 
officials on a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs 
to this appropriation; and travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to 
attend course development meetings and training sponsored by the Center: 
Provided further, That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from agencies receiving training 
sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, except that 
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide training for the Gang Resistance Education and Training 
program to Federal and non-Federal personnel at any facility in 
partnership with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: Provided 
further, That the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized 
to provide short-term medical services for students undergoing
training at the Center.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$33,434,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For expenses necessary to conduct investigations and convict 
offenders involved in organized crime drug trafficking, including 
cooperative efforts with State and local law enforcement, as it relates 
to the Treasury Department law enforcement violations such as money 
laundering, violent crime, and smuggling, $107,576,000, of which 
$7,827,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 518]]

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$212,850,000, of which not to exceed $9,220,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2004, for information systems modernization 
initiatives; and of which not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed 822 vehicles for police-
type use, of which 650 shall be for replacement only, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; services of expert witnesses 
at such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per 
diem and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a major 
investigative assignment requires an employee to work 16 hours or more 
per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed 
$20,000 for official reception and representation expenses; for training 
of State and local law enforcement agencies with or without 
reimbursement, including training in connection with the training and 
acquisition of canines for explosives and fire accelerants detection; 
not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research and development programs 
for Laboratory Services and Fire Research Center activities; and 
provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or 
without reimbursement, $823,316,000, of which $3,500,000 shall be 
available for retrofitting and upgrades of the National Tracing Center 
Facility in Martinsburg, West Virginia; of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as 
provided by 18 U.S.C. 924(d)(2); of which up to $2,000,000 shall be 
available for the equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or 
aircraft available for official use by a State or local law enforcement 
agency if the conveyance will be used in joint law enforcement 
operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the 
payment of overtime salaries including Social Security and Medicare, 
travel, fuel, training, equipment, supplies, and other similar costs of 
State and local law enforcement per-
sonnel, including sworn officers and support personnel, that are 
incurred in joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, and of which $13,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available for disbursements through grants, cooperative 
agreements or contracts to local governments for Gang Resistance 
Education and Training: Provided, That no funds made available by this 
or any other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to other 
agencies or Departments in fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That no 
funds appropriated herein shall be available for salaries or 
administrative expenses in connection with consolidating or 
centralizing, within the Department of the
Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees:
Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be used
to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer

[[Page 115 STAT. 519]]

or employee of the United States to implement an amendment or amendments 
to 27 CFR 178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 
27 CFR 178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it 
existed on January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated herein shall be available to investigate or act upon 
applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 
U.S.C. 925(c): Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): Provided 
further, That no funds under this Act may be used to electronically 
retrieve information gathered pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 923(g)(4) by name or 
any personal identification code.

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase and lease of up to 1,235 motor vehicles of which 550 
are for replacement only and of which 1,215 are for police-type use and 
commercial operations; hire of motor vehicles; contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; not to exceed $40,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service, $2,079,357,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to 
section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act of 1985, as
amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that Account;
of the total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for 
rental space in connection with preclearance operations; not to exceed 
$4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research; not less than 
$100,000 shall be available to promote public awareness of the child 
pornography tipline; not less than $200,000 shall be available for 
Project Alert; not less than $1,000,000 shall be provided to develop a 
curriculum for the training of law enforcement dogs to combat and 
respond to terrorist activities specifically related to chemical and 
biological threats; not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available until 
expended for conducting special operations pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2081; 
not to exceed $8,000,000 shall be available until expended for the 
procurement of automation infrastructure items, including hardware, 
software, and installation; not to exceed $33,151,000 shall be available 
until expended for the procurement and deployment of non-intrusive 
inspection technology; and not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available 
until expended for repairs to Customs facilities: Provided, That of the 
total amount of funds made available for forced child labor activities 
in fiscal year 2002, not to exceed $4,400,000 shall remain available 
until expended for operations and support of such activities: Provided 
further, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fiscal year 
aggregate overtime limitation prescribed in subsection 5(c)(1) of the 
Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 261 and 267) shall be $30,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 520]]

                    harbor maintenance fee collection

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

  operation, maintenance and procurement, air and marine interdiction 
                                programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction and demand reduction programs, the 
operations of which include the following: the interdiction of narcotics 
and other goods; the provision of support to Customs and other Federal, 
State, and local agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws 
enforced by the Customs Service; and, at the discretion of the 
Commissioner of Customs, the provision of assistance to Federal, State, 
and local agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian 
efforts, $177,860,000, which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That no aircraft or other related equipment, with the 
exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and has been identified as 
excess to Customs requirements and aircraft which has been damaged 
beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other Federal agency, 
department, or office outside of the Department of the Treasury, during 
fiscal year 2002 without the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        automation modernization

    For expenses not otherwise provided for Customs automated systems, 
$427,832,000, to remain available until expended, of which $5,400,000 
shall be for the International Trade Data System, and not less than 
$300,000,000 shall be for the development of the Automated Commercial 
Environment: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading may be obligated for the Automated Commercial Environment until 
the United States Customs Service prepares and submits to the Committees 
on Appropriations a plan for expenditure that: (1) meets the capital 
planning and investment control review requirements established by the 
Office of Management and Budget, including OMB Circular A-11, part 3; 
(2) complies with the United States Customs Service's Enterprise 
Information Systems Architecture; (3) complies with the acquisition 
rules, requirements, guidelines, and systems acquisition management 
practices of the Federal Government; (4) is reviewed and approved by the 
Customs Investment Review Board, the Department of the Treasury, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (5) is reviewed by the General 
Accounting Office: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
under this heading may be obligated for the Automated Commercial 
Environment until such expenditure plan has been approved by the 
Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 115 STAT. 521]]

                           United States Mint

                united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the United 
States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint Public 
Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of circulating 
coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including both 
operating expenses and capital investments. The aggregate amount of new 
liabilities and obligations incurred during fiscal year 2002 under such 
section 5136 for circulating coinage and protective service capital 
investments of the United States Mint shall not exceed $43,000,000. From 
amounts in the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund, the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall pay to the Comptroller General an amount not to 
exceed $250,000 to reimburse the Comptroller General for the cost of a 
study to be conducted by the Comptroller General on any changes 
necessary to maximize public interest and acceptance and to achieve a 
better balance in the numbers of coins of different denominations in 
circulation, with particular attention to increasing the number of $1 
coins in circulation.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

                      administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States, $191,353,000, of which not to exceed $15,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and of 
which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
systems modernization: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein from 
the General Fund for fiscal year 2002 shall be reduced by not more than 
$4,400,000 as definitive security issue fees and Treasury Direct 
Investor Account Maintenance fees are collected, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$186,953,000. In addition, $40,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund to reimburse the Bureau for administrative and 
personnel expenses for financial management of the Fund, as authorized 
by section 1012 of Public Law 101-380.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for pre-
filing taxpayer assistance and education, filing and account services, 
shared services support, general management and administration; and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $3,797,890,000, of which up to 
$3,950,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which $7,000,000 shall be available for low-income taxpayer clinic 
grants, and of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

[[Page 115 STAT. 522]]

                           tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; providing litigation 
support; conducting criminal investigation and enforcement activities; 
securing unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; conducting a 
document matching program; resolving taxpayer problems through prompt 
identification, referral and settlement; compiling statistics of income 
and conducting compliance research; purchase (for police-type use, not 
to exceed 850) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $3,538,347,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2004, for 
research.

             earned income tax credit compliance initiative

    For funding essential earned income tax credit compliance and error 
reduction initiatives pursuant to section 5702 of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33), $146,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 may be used to reimburse the Social Security Administration 
for the costs of implementing section 1090 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997.

                           information systems

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
information systems and telecommunications support, including 
developmental information systems and operational information systems; 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by 
the Commissioner, $1,563,249,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2003.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, 
$391,593,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004, for the 
capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, including 
management and related contractual costs of said acquisitions, including 
contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided, That none of these funds may be obligated until the 
Internal Revenue Service submits to the Committees on Appropriations, 
and such Committees approve, a plan for expenditure that: (1) meets the 
capital planning and investment control review requirements established 
by the Office of Management and Budget, including Circular A-11 part 3; 
(2) complies with the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise 
architecture, including the modernization blueprint; (3) conforms with 
the Internal Revenue Service's enterprise life cycle methodology; (4) is 
approved by the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of the 
Treasury, and the Office of Management and Budget; (5) has been reviewed 
by the General Accounting Office; and (6) complies with the acquisition 
rules, requirements, guidelines, and systems acquisition management 
practices of the Federal Government.

[[Page 115 STAT. 523]]

           administrative provisions--internal revenue service

    Sec. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be transferred 
to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: 26 USC 7804 note.>>  The Internal Revenue Service 
shall maintain a 
training program to ensure that Internal Revenue Service 
employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously 
with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Confidentiality. 26 USC 6103 note.>>  The Internal 
Revenue Service shall institute and enforce policies and procedures that 
will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer information.

    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Communications and tele- communications.>>  Funds 
made available by this or any other Act to the Internal Revenue Service 
shall be available for improved facilities and increased manpower to 
provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line service for taxpayers. 
The Commissioner shall continue to make the improvement of the Internal 
Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a priority and allocate 
resources necessary to increase phone lines and staff to improve the 
Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 1,149 vehicles for police-type use, 
of which 945 shall be for replacement only, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of American-made side-car compatible motorcycles; 
hire of aircraft; training and assistance requested by State and local 
governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; services of 
expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the Director; 
rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, lighting, 
guard booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; for payment of per diem and/or subsistence 
allowances to employees where a protective assignment during the actual 
day or days of the visit of a protectee require an employee to work 16 
hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her post of duty; the 
conducting of and participating in firearms matches; presentation of 
awards; for travel of Secret Service employees on protective missions 
without regard to the limitations on such expenditures in this or any 
other Act if approval is obtained in advance from the Committees on 
Appropriations; for research and development; for making grants to 
conduct behavioral research in support of protective research and 
operations; not to exceed $25,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $100,000 to provide technical 
assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations in 
counterfeit investigations; for payment in advance for commercial 
accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective functions; and 
for uniforms without regard to the general purchase price limitation for 
the current fiscal year, $920,615,000, of which $1,633,000 shall be 
available for forensic and related support of investigations of missing 
and exploited children, and of which $3,009,000 shall be available as a 
grant for activities related to the investigations of exploited children 
and shall remain available

[[Page 115 STAT. 524]]

until expended: Provided, That up to $18,000,000 provided for protective 
travel shall remain available until September 30, 2003.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses of construction, repair, alteration, and 
improvement of facilities, $3,457,000, to remain available until 
expended.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Sec. 110. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary of the 
Treasury in connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal 
agency or a Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in 
accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances 
remaining in the Fund on September 30, 2002, shall be made in compliance 
with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 111. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  Appropriations to the Department of 
the Treasury in this Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, 
repairs, and cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles 
operated in foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard 
to the general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and 
used overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with 
the Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical 
services to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; 
and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.

    Sec. 112. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 2002 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 113. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 
United States Customs Service, Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement, 
and United States Secret Service may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this Act 
made available to the Departmental Offices, Office of Inspector General, 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Financial Management 
Service, and Bureau of the Public Debt, may be transferred between such 
appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations. No transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be transferred 
to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's appropriation 
upon the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations. No 
transfer may increase or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 
percent.
    Sec. 116. Of the funds available for the purchase of law enforcement 
vehicles, no funds may be obligated until the Secretary of

[[Page 115 STAT. 525]]

the Treasury certifies that the purchase by the respective Treasury 
bureau is consistent with Departmental vehicle management principles: 
Provided, That the Secretary may delegate this authority to the 
Assistant Secretary for Management.
    Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 118. The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
``Salaries and Expenses'', Financial Management Service, to the Debt 
Services Account as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection: 
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such Salaries and 
Expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Services 
Account.
    Sec. 119. Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence and intelligence-related 
activities of the Department of the Treasury are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2002 until enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal 
year 2002.
    Sec. 120. Section 122 of Public Law 105-119 (5 U.S.C. 3104 note), as 
amended by Public Law 105-277, is further amended in subsection (g)(1), 
by striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``4 years''; and by striking ``, 
the United States Customs Service, and the United States Secret 
Service''.
    Sec. 121. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used by the United States Mint to 
construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval of the 
House Committee on Financial Services and the Senate Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 122. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act may be used for the production of Customs Declarations that do not 
inquire whether the passenger had been in the proximity of livestock.
    Sec. 123. In addition to any other transfer authority in this Act 
and upon approval of the Committees on Appropriations, the Secretary of 
the Treasury may transfer out of any appropriations available in this 
title such sums as are necessary to meet financial statement audit 
requirements of the United States Customs Service and the Financial 
Management Service, not to exceed a total of $3,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 2002''.

  TITLE II--POSTAL SERVICE <<NOTE: Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2002.>> 

                   Payment to the Postal Service Fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $76,619,000, of which $47,619,000 
shall not be available for obligation until October 1, 2002: Provided, 
That mail for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to 
be free: Provided further, <<NOTE: 39 USC 403 note.>>  That 6-day 
delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 
1983 level: Provided further, That none of the funds

[[Page 115 STAT. 526]]

made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be used to 
implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any officer or 
employee of any State or local child support enforcement agency, or any 
individual participating in a State or local program of child support 
enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided concerning an 
address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close small rural 
and other small post offices in fiscal year 2002.

    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
2002''.

        TITLE III-- <<NOTE: Executive Office Appropriations Act, 
2002.>> EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
PRESIDENT

        Compensation of the President and the White House Office

                      compensation of the president

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102, $450,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>>  That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be expended for any other purpose 
and any unused amount shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 
1552 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available for official expenses shall be considered as 
taxable to the President.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, periodicals, 
teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 to be expended 
and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed 
$19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President, $54,651,000: 
Provided, That $10,740,000 of the funds appropriated shall be available 
for reimbursements to the White House Communications Agency.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating, and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President, $11,695,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                          reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence

[[Page 115 STAT. 527]]

shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such 
amount for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive 
authority of the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive 
offsetting collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable 
political event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost 
of the event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, <<NOTE: Notice. Deadlines.>>  That the 
Executive Residence shall ensure that a written notice of any amount 
owed for a reimbursable operating expense under this paragraph is 
submitted to the person owing such amount within 60 days after such 
expense is incurred, and that such amount is collected within 30 days 
after the submission of such notice: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall charge interest and assess penalties and other 
charges on any such amount that is not reimbursed within such 30 days, 
in accordance with the interest and penalty provisions applicable to an 
outstanding debt on a United States Government claim under section 3717 
of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That each such amount 
that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and charges, shall be 
deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  That the Executive Residence 
shall prepare and submit to the Committees on Appropriations, by not 
later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, 
a report setting forth the reimbursable operating expenses of the 
Executive Residence during the preceding fiscal year, including the 
total amount of such expenses, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable official and ceremonial events, the amount of such total 
that consists of reimbursable political events, and the portion of each 
such amount that has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: 
Provided further, <<NOTE: Records.>>  That the Executive Residence shall 
maintain a system for the tracking of expenses related to reimbursable 
events within the Executive Residence that includes a standard for the 
classification of any such expense as political or nonpolitical: 
Provided further, That no provision of this paragraph may be construed 
to exempt the Executive Residence from any other applicable requirement 
of subchapter I or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $8,625,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $1,306,000 is for six projects for required 
maintenance, safety and health issues, and continued preventative 
maintenance; and of which $7,319,000 is for 3 projects for required 
maintenance and continued preventative maintenance in conjunction with 
the General Services Administration, the United States Secret Service, 
the Office of the President, and other agencies charged with the 
administration and care of the White House.

[[Page 115 STAT. 528]]

 Special Assistance to the President and the Official Residence of the 
                             Vice President

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $3,925,000.

                           operating expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate, $318,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisors in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021), $4,211,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, 
$4,142,000.

                        National Security Council

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,494,000.

                        Office of Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 
107, and hire of passenger motor vehicles, $46,955,000, of which 
$11,775,000 shall remain available until expended for the Capital 
Investment Plan for continued modernization of the information 
technology infrastructure within the Executive Office of the President: 
Provided, That $4,475,000 of the Capital Investment Plan

[[Page 115 STAT. 529]]

funds may not be obligated until the Executive Office of the President 
has submitted a report to the Committees on Appropriations that: (1) 
includes an Enterprise Architecture, as defined in OMB Circular A-130 
and the Federal Chief Information Officers Council guidance; (2) 
presents an Information Technology (IT) Human Capital Plan, to include 
an inventory of current IT workforce knowledge and skills, a definition 
of needed IT knowledge and skills, a gap analysis of any shortfalls, and 
a plan for addressing any shortfalls; (3) presents a capital investment 
plan for implementing the Enterprise Architecture; (4) includes a 
description of the IT capital planning and investment control process; 
and (5) is reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget, 
is reviewed by the General Accounting Office, and is approved by the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                     Office of Management and Budget

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized by 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $70,752,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code, and of which not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for 
official representation expenses: Provided, That, as provided in 31 
U.S.C. 1301(a), appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for 
which appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for 
the Office of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of 
reviewing any agricultural marketing orders or any activities or 
regulations under the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act 
may be expended for the altering of the transcript of actual testimony 
of witnesses, except for testimony of officials of the Office of 
Management and Budget, before the Committees on Appropriations or the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That the preceding shall not apply to printed hearings released 
by the Committees on Appropriations or the Committees on Veterans' 
Affairs: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be available to pay the salary or expenses of any employee of 
the Office of Management and Budget who, after February 15, 2002, 
calculates, prepares, or approves any tabular or other material that 
proposes the sub-allocation of budget authority or outlays by the 
Committees on Appropriations among their subcommittees: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Reports.>>  That of the amounts appropriated, not to 
exceed $6,331,000 shall be available to the Office of Information and 
Regulatory Affairs, of which $1,582,750 shall not be obligated until the 
Office of Management and Budget submits a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations that provides an assessment of the total costs and 
benefits of implementing Executive Order No. 13166: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That such assessment shall be submitted no 
later than 120 days after enactment of this Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 530]]

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); not 
to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation expenses; 
and for participation in joint projects or in the provision of services 
on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, $25,263,000; 
of which $2,350,000 shall remain available until expended, consisting of 
$1,350,000 for policy research and evaluation, and $1,000,000 for the 
National Alliance for Model State Drug Laws: Provided, <<NOTE: 21 USC 
1702 note.>>  That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, 
and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the Office.

                counterdrug technology assessment center

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the Counterdrug Technology Assessment 
Center for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
$42,300,000, which shall remain available until expended, consisting of 
$20,064,000 for counternarcotics research and development projects, and 
$22,236,000 for the continued operation of the technology transfer 
program: Provided, That the $20,064,000 for counternarcotics research 
and development projects shall be available for transfer to other 
Federal departments or agencies.

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  necessary expenses of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
Program, $226,350,000, for drug control activities consistent with the 
approved strategy for each of the designated High Intensity Drug 
Trafficking Areas, of which no less than 51 percent shall be transferred 
to State and local entities for drug control activities, which shall be 
obligated within 120 days of the date of the enactment of this Act: 
Provided, That up to 49 percent, to remain available until September 30, 
2003, may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a rate 
to be determined by the Director: Provided further, That, of this latter 
amount, not less than $2,100,000 shall be used for auditing services and 
activities: Provided further, That High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas 
Programs designated as of September 30, 2001, shall be funded at no less 
than fiscal year 2001 levels unless the Director submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations, and the Committees approve, justification 
for changes in those levels based on clearly articulated priorities for

[[Page 115 STAT. 531]]

the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Programs, as well as published 
Office of National Drug Control Policy performance measures of 
effectiveness.

                         special forfeiture fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  activities to support a national anti-drug 
campaign for youth, and for other purposes, authorized by 21 U.S.C. 1701 
et seq., $239,400,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$180,000,000 shall be to support a national media campaign, as 
authorized in the Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998, of which 
$4,800,000 shall be made available no later than 30 days after the 
enactment of this Act to the United States Anti-Doping Agency for their 
anti-doping efforts; of which $50,600,000 shall be to continue a program 
of matching grants to drug-free communities, as authorized in chapter 2 
of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, as amended; of which 
$1,000,000 shall be available to the National Drug Court Institute; and 
of which $3,000,000 shall be for the Counterdrug Intelligence Executive 
Secretariat: Provided, That such funds may be transferred to other 
Federal departments and agencies to carry out such activities.

                           unanticipated needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year, as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 2002''.

      TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES <<NOTE: Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002.>> 

  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-28, 
$4,629,000.

                       Federal Election Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, $43,689,000, of which no less 
than $5,128,000 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems, and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available 
for reception and representation expenses.

[[Page 115 STAT. 532]]

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, $26,524,000: Provided, That public members of 
the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per 
diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for 
persons employed intermittently in the Government service, and 
compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-
Federal participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                     General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount to be deposited in, and to be used for the 
purposes of, the Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 
U.S.C. 490(f)), $8,000,000. The revenues and collections deposited into 
the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real property 
management and related activities not otherwise provided for, including 
operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and leased 
buildings; rental of 
buildings in the District of Columbia; restoration of leased premises; 
moving governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, approaches 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, and any other obligations for public buildings acquired by 
installment purchase and purchase contract; in the aggregate amount of 
$6,100,382,000, of which: (1) $386,280,000 shall remain available until 
expended for construction (including funds for sites and expenses and 
associated design and construction services) of additional projects at 
the following locations:

[[Page 115 STAT. 533]]

    New Construction:
            Alabama:
                    Mobile, United States Courthouse, $11,290,000
            Arkansas:
                    Little Rock, United States Courthouse Annex, 
                $5,022,000
            California:
                    Fresno, United States Courthouse, $121,225,000
            District of Columbia:
                    Washington, United States Courthouse Annex, 
                $6,595,000
                    Washington, Southeast Federal Center Site 
                Remediation, $5,000,000
            Florida:
                    Ft. Pierce, United States Courthouse, $2,269,000
                    Miami, United States Courthouse, $15,000,000
                    Orlando, United States Courthouse, $4,000,000
            Illinois:
                    Rockford, United States Courthouse, $4,933,000
            Iowa:
                    Cedar Rapids, United States Courthouse, $9,785,000
            Maine:
                    Jackman, Border Station, $868,000
            Maryland:
                    Montgomery County, FDA Consolidation, $19,060,000
                    Prince Georges County, National Center for 
                Environmental Prediction, $3,000,000
                    Suitland, United States Census Bureau, $2,813,000
                    Suitland, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration II, $34,083,000
            Massachusetts:
                    Springfield, United States Courthouse, $6,473,000
            Michigan:
                    Detroit, Ambassador Bridge Border Station, 
                $9,470,000
            Mississippi:
                    Gulfport, United States Courthouse, $3,000,000
                    Jackson, United States Courthouse, $6,710,000
            Montana:
                    Raymond, Border Station, $693,000
            New Mexico:
                    Las Cruces, United States Courthouse, $4,110,000
            New York:
                    Brooklyn, United States Courthouse Annex--GPO, 
                $3,361,000
                    Buffalo, United States Courthouse Annex, $716,000
                    Champlain, Border Station, $500,000
                    New York, United States Mission to the United 
                Nations, $4,617,000
            Oklahoma:
                    Norman, NOAA Norman Consolidation Project, 
                $8,000,000, to be directly transferred to the National 
                Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
            Oregon:
                    Eugene, United States Courthouse, $4,470,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Erie, United States Courthouse Annex, $30,739,000
            Tennessee:

[[Page 115 STAT. 534]]

                    Nashville, United States Courthouse, $14,700,000
            Texas:
                    Del Rio III, Border Station, $1,869,000
                    Eagle Pass, Border Station, $2,256,000
                    El Paso, United States Courthouse, $11,193,000
                    Fort Hancock, Border Station, $2,183,000
                    Houston, Federal Bureau of Investigation, $6,268,000
            Utah:
                    Salt Lake City, United States Courthouse, $3,000,000
            Virginia:
                    Norfolk, United States Courthouse Annex, $11,609,000
            Nationwide:
                    Non-prospectus construction, $5,400,000:

Provided, That funding for any project identified above may be exceeded 
to the extent that savings are effected in other such projects, but not 
to exceed 10 percent of the amounts included in an approved prospectus, 
if required, unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, <<NOTE: Expiration 
date.>>  That all funds for direct construction projects shall expire on 
September 30, 2003, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except for 
funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to such date; (2) $826,676,000 shall 
remain available until expended for repairs and alterations which 
includes associated design and construction services: Provided further, 
That funds in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount by project, as 
follows, except each project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 
10 percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount:

    Repairs and Alterations:
            Alabama:
                    Montgomery, Frank M. Johnson, Jr. Federal 
                Building--United States Courthouse, $4,000,000
            California:
                    Laguna Niguel, Chet Holifield Federal Building, 
                $11,711,000
                    San Diego, Edward J. Schwartz Federal Building, 
                United States Courthouse, $13,070,000
            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center, Building 67, 
                $8,484,000
            District of Columbia:
                    Washington, 320 First Street, Federal Building, 
                $8,260,000
                    Washington, Internal Revenue Service Main Building, 
                Phase 2, $20,391,000
                    Washington, Main Interior Building, $22,739,000
                    Washington, Main Justice Building, Phase 3, 
                $45,974,000
            Florida:
                    Jacksonville, Charles E. Bennett Federal Building, 
                $23,552,000
                    Tallahassee, United States Courthouse, $4,894,000
            Illinois:
                    Chicago, Federal Building, 536 South Clark Street, 
                $60,073,000

[[Page 115 STAT. 535]]

                    Chicago, Harold Washington Social Security Center, 
                $13,692,000
                    Chicago, John C. Kluczynski Federal Building, 
                $12,725,000
            Iowa:
                     Des Moines, 210 Walnut Street, Federal Building, 
                $11,992,000
            Missouri:
                    Kansas City, Federal Building, 811 Grand Boulevard, 
                $1,604,000
                    St. Louis, Federal Building, 104/105 Goodfellow, 
                $20,212,000
            New Jersey:
                    Newark, Peter W. Rodino Federal Building, $5,295,000
            Nevada:
                    Las Vegas, Foley Federal Building--United States 
                Courthouse, $26,978,000
            Ohio:
                    Cleveland, Anthony J. Celebrezze Federal Building, 
                $22,986,000
                    Cleveland, Howard M. Metzenbaum United States 
                Courthouse, $27,856,000
            Oklahoma:
                    Muskogee, Federal Building--United States 
                Courthouse, $8,214,000
            Oregon:
                    Portland, Pioneer Courthouse, $16,629,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Pittsburgh, United States Post Office and 
                Courthouse, $12,600,000
            Rhode Island:
                    Providence, United States Federal Building and 
                Courthouse, $5,039,000
            Wisconsin:
                    Milwaukee, Federal Building--United States 
                Courthouse, $10,015,000
            Nationwide:
                    Design Program, $33,657,000
                    Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning 
                Modernization--Various Buildings, $6,650,000
                    Transformers--Various Buildings, $15,588,000
            Basic Repairs and Alterations, $351,796,000:

Provided further, That additional projects for which prospectuses have 
been fully approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', 
may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to fund 
authorized increases <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  in prospectus projects: 
Provided further, That all funds


[[Page 115 STAT. 536]]

for repairs and alterations prospectus projects shall expire on 
September 30, 2003, and remain in the Federal Buildings Fund except 
funds for projects as to which funds for design or other funds 
have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: Provided 
further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
the Government arising from any projects under the heading 
``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in 
prospectus projects; (3) $186,427,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain 
available until expended; (4) $2,952,050,000 for rental of space which 
shall remain available until expended; and (5) $1,748,949,000 for 
building operations which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall not be available for expenses of any construction, 
repair, alteration and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if 
required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as amended, has not been 
approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each project 
for required expenses for the development of a proposed prospectus: 
Provided further, That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund may 
be expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That amounts 
necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other agencies 
under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, 
lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other 
property not in Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to 
enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be available 
from such revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues 
and collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during 
fiscal year 2002, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) 
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 
(40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) in excess of $6,100,382,000 shall remain in 
the Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
authorized in appropriations Acts.

                          policy and operations

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and oversight activities associated with asset 
management activities; utilization and donation of surplus personal 
property; transportation; procurement and supply; Government-wide 
responsibilities relating to automated data management, 
telecommunications, information resources management, and related 
technology activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $7,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $143,139,000, of which 
$25,887,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 115 STAT. 537]]

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $36,346,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $15,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

                       electronic government fund

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in support of interagency projects that 
enable the Federal Government to expand its ability to conduct 
activities electronically, through the development and implementation of 
innovative uses of the Internet and other electronic methods, $5,000,000 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That these funds may be 
transferred to Federal agencies to carry out the purposes of the Fund: 
Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be in addition to 
any other transfer authority provided in this Act: Provided further, 
That such transfers may not be made until 10 days after a proposed 
spending plan and justification for each project to be undertaken has 
been submitted to the Committees on Appropriations.

            allowances and office staff for former presidents

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $3,196,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of such Acts.

                     General Services Administration

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 401. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the cost of 
operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and improvement, 
included as part of rentals received from Government corporations 
pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 402. Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 403. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2002 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall be 
approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 404. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 2003 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that: (1) does not meet the design guide standards

[[Page 115 STAT. 538]]

for construction as established and approved by the General Services 
Administration, the Judicial Conference of the United States, and the 
Office of Management and Budget; and (2) does not reflect the priorities 
of the Judicial Conference of the United States as set out in its 
approved 5-year construction plan: Provided, That the fiscal year 2003 
request must be accompanied by a standardized courtroom utilization 
study of each facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 405. None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in compliance with the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 406. Funds provided to other Government agencies by the 
Information Technology Fund, General Services Administration, under 
section 110 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 757) and sections 5124(b) and 5128 of the Clinger-Cohen 
Act of 1996 (40 U.S.C. 1424(b) and 1428), for performance of pilot 
information technology projects which have potential for Government-wide 
benefits and savings, may be repaid to this Fund from any savings 
actually incurred by these projects or other funding, to the extent 
feasible.
    Sec. 407. From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings 
effected in other construction projects with prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 408. The amount expended by the General Services Administration 
during fiscal year 2002 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles 
shall be at least $5,000,000 more than the amount expended during fiscal 
year 2001 for such purpose.
    Sec. 409. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the General 
Services Administration is directed to maintain the vehicle rental rates 
and per mile rates charged for buses used by schools and dormitories 
funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs that were in effect on April 30, 
2001 until such time as appropriations to the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
funding for the Student Transportation Program for schools and 
dormitories funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs equals or exceeds $3 
per mile.
    Sec. 410. Designation of Judge Bruce M. Van Sickle Federal Building 
and United States Courthouse. (a) The Federal building and courthouse 
located at 100 1st Street, SW, Minot, North Dakota, shall be known and 
designated as the ``Judge Bruce M. Van Sickle Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse''.
    (b) Any reference in law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the Federal building and courthouse 
referred to in section (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
Judge Bruce M. Van Sickle Federal Building and United States Courthouse.
    Sec. 411. Section 410 of Appendix C of Public Law 106-554 (114 Stat. 
2763A-146) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``a 125 foot wide right-of-way'' and 
        inserting ``up to a 125 foot wide right-of-way'';

[[Page 115 STAT. 539]]

            (2) by striking ``northeast corner of the existing port'' 
        and inserting ``southeast corner of the existing port'';
            (3) striking ``approximately 4,750 feet'' and inserting 
        ``and then west to a connection with State Highway 11 between 
        approximately 5,000 and 7,000 feet'';
            (4) by striking ``a road to be built by the County of Luna, 
        New Mexico to connect to'';
            (5) by striking ``Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, Luna County shall construct the roadway 
        from State Highway 11 to the terminus of the northbound road to 
        be constructed by the General Services Administration in time 
        for completion of the road to be constructed by the General 
        Services Administration in time for completion of the road to be 
        constructed by the General Services Administration:''; and
            (6) by striking ``consisting of approximately 12 acres'' and 
        inserting ``consisting of approximately 10.22 acres''.

    Sec. 412. <<NOTE: Florida.>>  Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the United States Government is directed to deed block four (4) of 
the LOCH HAVEN REPLAT, as recorded in Plat Book ``Q'', Page 9, Public 
Records of Orange County, Florida, back to the City of Orlando, Florida, 
for park and recreation purposes, under the same terms that the land was 
deeded to the United States Government by the City of Orlando in the 
recorded deed from the City dated September 20, 1951.

    Sec. 413. Designation of G. Ross Anderson, Jr. Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse. (a) The Federal 
building and courthouse located at 315 S. McDuffie Street, Anderson, 
South Carolina, shall be known and designated as the ``G. 
Ross Anderson, Jr. Federal Building and United States Courthouse''.
    (b) Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or 
other record of the United States to the Federal building and courthouse 
referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
G. Ross Anderson, Jr. Federal Building and United States Courthouse.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct procurement 
of survey printing, $30,555,000 together with not to exceed $2,520,000 
for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

[[Page 115 STAT. 540]]

  Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental 
                            Policy Foundation

  morris k. udall scholarship and excellence in national environmental 
                            policy trust fund

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Policy Trust Fund, pursuant to the Morris K. 
Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and Native 
American Public Policy Act of 1992 (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $1,996,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That up to 60 percent of 
such funds may be transferred by the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and 
Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for the necessary 
expenses of the Native Nations Institute: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and 
Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations a report describing the distribution of 
such funds.

                  environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $1,309,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives (including the Information Security Oversight Office) 
and archived Federal records and related activities, as provided by law, 
and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $244,247,000: 
Provided, That the Archivist of the United States is authorized to use 
any excess funds available from the amount borrowed for construction of 
the National Archives facility, for expenses necessary to provide 
adequate storage for holdings: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available, $22,302,000 is for the electronic records archive, 
$16,337,000 of which shall be available until September 30, 2004.

                         repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $39,143,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Archivist of the United 
States is authorized, pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2903, to construct a new 
Southeast Regional Archives on land to be acquired (Federal site), by 
direct payment or the provision of site improvements, from the State of 
Georgia or Clayton County or some other governmental authority thereof; 
such Federal site to be located near the campus of Clayton College and 
State University in Clayton County, Georgia, and abut land designated 
for construction of the Georgia State Archives facility, with both 
archival facilities co-located on a combined site. Of the funds provided 
in this account, $28,500,000 shall be available until expended to be 
used

[[Page 115 STAT. 541]]

for acquiring the Federal site, construction, and related services for 
building the new Federal archival facility, other related costs for 
improvement of the combined site which may also indirectly benefit the 
Georgia State Archives facility, and other necessary expenses.

         National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as 
amended, $6,436,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Office of Government Ethics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to 
exceed $1,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$10,117,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses; 
advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee 
to remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $99,636,000, of 
which $3,200,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
cost of the governmentwide human resources data network project; 
and in addition $115,928,000 for administrative expenses, to be 
transferred from the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management without regard to other statutes, including 
direct procurement of printed materials, for the retirement and 
insurance programs, of which $21,777,000 shall remain available 
until expended for the cost of automating the retirement recordkeeping 
systems: Provided, That the provisions of this appropriation 
shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust funds as 
provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8909(g), and 9004(f)(1)(A) and 
(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code: Provided further, That no 
part of this appropriation shall be available for salaries and

[[Page 115 STAT. 542]]

expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the Office of Personnel 
Management established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 
1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the 
President's Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2002, accept 
donations of money, property, and personal services in connection with 
the development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted for 
travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                       office of inspector general

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as 
amended, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, $1,498,000; and in addition, not to 
exceed $10,016,000 for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, 
and provide other oversight of the Office of Personnel 
Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel 
Management, as determined by the Inspector General: Provided, 
That the Inspector General is authorized to rent conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
amended, such sums as may be necessary.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

         payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased 
annuity benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be 
credited to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums 
as may be necessary: Provided, <<NOTE: 33 USC 776.>>  That annuities 
authorized by the Act of May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 
19, 1950, as amended (33 U.S.C. 771-775), may hereafter be paid out of 
the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

[[Page 115 STAT. 543]]

                        Office of Special Counsel

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $11,891,000.

                         United States Tax Court

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,305,000: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 26 USC 7443 note.>>  travel expenses of the judges shall be 
paid upon the written certificate of the judge.

    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2002''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant 
to existing law.

    Sec. 503. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930.
    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available in fiscal year 2002 for the purpose of transferring control 
over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, 
Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Department of the Treasury.
    Sec. 505. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his period of active military or naval service, and has within 
90 days after his release from such service or from hospitalization 
continuing after discharge for a period of

[[Page 115 STAT. 544]]

not more than 1 year, made application for restoration to his former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as 
still qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not 
been restored thereto.
    Sec. 506. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 507. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In 
the case of any equipment or products that may be authorized to be 
purchased with financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the 
sense of the Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in 
expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and 
products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 508. If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 509. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  No funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal employees 
health benefit program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.

    Sec. 510. The provision of section 509 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 511. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 2002 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 2002 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2003, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the expenditure of 
such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall be made in 
compliance with reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 512. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Executive Office of the President to request from the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any official background investigation report on 
any individual, except when--
            (1) such individual has given his or her express written 
        consent for such request not more than 6 months prior to the 
        date of such request and during the same presidential 
        administration; or
            (2) such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.

    Sec. 513. The cost accounting standards promulgated under section 26 
of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (Public

[[Page 115 STAT. 545]]

Law 93-400; 41 U.S.C. 422) shall not apply with respect to a contract 
under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program established under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 514. For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area 
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may 
accept and utilize (without regard to any restriction 
on unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an Appropriations 
Act) funds made available to the Office pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 515. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Sec. 601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of employees 
serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness of said 
employee.
    Sec. 602. <<NOTE: Drug-free workplace.>>  No department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated funds under 
this or any other Act for fiscal year 2002 shall obligate or expend any 
such funds, unless such department, agency, or instrumentality has in 
place, and will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy 
designed to ensure that all of its workplaces are free from the illegal 
use, possession, or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in 
the Controlled Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.

    Sec. 603. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>>  Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), 
for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall 
be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed 
$3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for special 
heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this 
section may not be exceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or 
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles.

    Sec. 604. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 605. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3101 note.>>  Unless otherwise specified 
during the current fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained 
in this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States (including 
any agency

[[Page 115 STAT. 546]]

the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person in the service of the United States on the date of the enactment 
of this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, has filed a declaration 
of intention to become a citizen of the United States prior to such date 
and is actually residing in the United States; (3) is a person who owes 
allegiance to the United States; (4) is an alien from Cuba, Poland, 
South Vietnam, the countries of the former Soviet Union, or the Baltic 
countries lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent 
residence; (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee 
paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975; or (6) is a national 
of the People's Republic of China who qualifies for adjustment of status 
pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992: Provided, That 
for the purpose of this section, an affidavit signed by any such person 
shall be considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this 
section with respect to his or her status have been complied with: 
Provided further, That any person making a false affidavit shall be 
guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction, shall be fined no more than 
$4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both: Provided 
further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to, and not in 
substitution for, any other provisions of existing law: Provided 
further, That any payment made to any officer or employee contrary to 
the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in action by the 
Federal Government. This section shall not apply to citizens of Ireland, 
Israel, or the Republic of the Philippines, or to nationals of those 
countries allied with the United States in a current defense effort, or 
to international broadcasters employed by the United States Information 
Agency, or to temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of 
emergencies.

    Sec. 606. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 607. In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13101 
        (September 14, 1998), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.

[[Page 115 STAT. 547]]

            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

    Sec. 608. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the expenditure 
of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which they are 
made available: Provided, That in the event any functions budgeted as 
administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or paid from 
other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall be 
correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 609. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the 
Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards (except 
Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, or similar 
groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which do not have 
a prior and specific statutory approval to receive financial support 
from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 611. Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Postal Service Fund (39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment 
of guards for all buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal 
Service and under the charge and control of the Postal Service, and such 
guards shall have, with respect to such property, the powers of special 
policemen provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 1948, as 
amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or 
occupied by the Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the same 
actions as the Administrator of General Services may take under the 
provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended 
(62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318a and 318b), attaching thereto penal 
consequences under the authority and within the limits provided in 
section 4 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 
U.S.C. 318c).
    Sec. 612. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
    Sec. 613. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5343 note.>>  (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this section, no 
part of any of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2002, by this or 
any other Act, may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described 
in section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 613 of the Treasury and General 
        Government Appropriations Act, 2001, until the normal effective 
        date of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to take 
        effect in fiscal year 2002, in an amount that exceeds the rate 
        payable for the applicable grade and step of the

[[Page 115 STAT. 548]]

        applicable wage schedule in accordance with such section 613; 
        and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2002, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2002 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Locality pay.>>  the difference between 
                the overall average percentage of the locality-based 
                comparability payments taking effect in fiscal year 2002 
                under section 5304 of such title (whether by adjustment 
                or otherwise), and the overall average percentage of 
                such payments which was effective in fiscal year 2001 
                under such section.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  For the purposes of this section, the 
rates payable to an employee who is covered by this section and who is 
paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 2001, shall be 
determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel 
Management.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 2001, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to pay for service performed after September 30, 2001.

    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, retirement, life 
insurance, or any other employee benefit) that requires any deduction or 
contribution, or that imposes any requirement or limitation on the basis 
of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay 
payable after the application of this section shall be treated as the 
rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions to 
the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines that 
such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of 
qualified employees.
    Sec. 614. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer, or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such

[[Page 115 STAT. 549]]

furnishing or redecoration is expressly approved by the Committees on 
Appropriations. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' 
shall include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as 
well as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of 
which is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 615. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations, except 
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain 
the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other 
agreement for training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center 
facilities.
    Sec. 616. Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2002 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of national security and emergency preparedness 
telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal 
departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive Order No. 
12472 (April 3, 1984).
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 3302 
of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the Office of 
Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee that the 
Schedule C position was not created solely or primarily in order to 
detail the employee to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
        the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of the 
        Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing intelligence 
        functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.

    Sec. 618. <<NOTE: Discrimination. Sexual harassment.>>  No 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving 
appropriated funds under this or any other Act for fiscal year 2002 
shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such department, agency, 
or instrumentality has in place, and will continue to administer in good 
faith, a written policy designed to ensure that all of its workplaces 
are free from discrimination and sexual harassment and that all of its 
workplaces are not in violation of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 
1964, as

[[Page 115 STAT. 550]]

amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

    Sec. 619. None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
United States Customs Service may be used to allow--
            (1) the importation into the United States of any good, 
        ware, article, or merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured 
        by forced or indentured child labor, as determined pursuant to 
        section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307); or
            (2) the release into the United States of any good, ware, 
        article, or merchandise on which the United States Customs 
        Service has in effect a detention order, pursuant to such 
        section 307, on the basis that the good, ware, article, or 
        merchandise may have been mined, produced, or manufactured by 
        forced or indentured child labor.

    Sec. 620. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any of 
        the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).

    Sec. 621. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) <<NOTE: Religion.>>  contains any methods or content 
        associated with religious or quasi-religious belief systems or 
        ``new age'' belief systems as defined in Equal Employment 
        Opportunity Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 
        1988; or
            (5) <<NOTE: Lifestyle-orientation.>>  is offensive to, or 
        designed to change, participants' personal values or lifestyle 
        outside the workplace.

[[Page 115 STAT. 551]]

    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 622. No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used 
to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 4414 of 
the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement if 
such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the following 
provisions: ``These restrictions are consistent with and do not 
supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
rights, or liabilities created by Executive Order No. 12958; section 
7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); 
section 1034 of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection 
Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); 
section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the 
Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, 
waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the 
Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) 
(governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents); and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections 641, 793, 794, 798, 
and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the 
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 783(b)). The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by 
said Executive order and listed statutes are incorporated into this 
agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That notwithstanding the 
preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to 
be executed by a person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or 
intelligence-related activity, other than an employee or officer of the 
United States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the 
particular activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or 
agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose 
any classified information received in the course of such activity 
unless specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. 
Such nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    Sec. 623. No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity 
or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 624. <<NOTE: Labor organizations.>>  None of the funds 
appropriated by this or any other Act may be used by an agency to 
provide a Federal employee's home address to any labor organization 
except when the employee has authorized such disclosure or when such 
disclosure has been ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.

    Sec. 625. None of the funds made available in this Act or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing or 
telephone lists to any person or any organization outside of the Federal 
Government without the approval of the Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 115 STAT. 552]]

    Sec. 626. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the 
United States not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 627. (a) In this section the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency as defined under section 105 
        of title 5, United States Code;
            (2) includes a military department as defined under section 
        102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal Rate 
        Commission; and
            (3) shall not include the General Accounting Office.

    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under section 6301(2) of title 5, United States Code, has an 
obligation to expend an honest effort and a reasonable proportion of 
such employee's time in the performance of official duties.
    Sec. 628. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, funds made available for fiscal year 2002 by this or any other Act 
to any department or agency, which is a member of the Joint Financial 
Management Improvement Program (JFMIP), shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of JFMIP administrative costs, as determined by the 
JFMIP, but not to exceed a total of $800,000 including the salary of the 
Executive Director and staff support.
    Sec. 629. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 610 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to the ``Policy and Operations'' account, General 
Services Administration, with the approval of the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, funds made available for fiscal year 2002 by 
this or any other Act, including rebates from charge card and other 
contracts. These funds shall be administered by the Administrator of 
General Services to support Government-wide financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency groups 
designated by the Director (including the Chief Financial Officers 
Council and the Joint Financial Management Improvement Program for 
financial management initiatives, the Chief Information Officers Council 
for information technology initiatives, and the Procurement Executives 
Council for procurement initiatives). The total funds transferred shall 
not exceed $17,000,000. Such transfers may only be made 15 days 
following notification of the Committees on Appropriations by the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 630. <<NOTE: Regulations. Child care. 40 USC 490b-1.>>  (a) In 
General.--Hereafter, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the 
Office of Personnel Management, an Executive agency which provides or 
proposes to provide child care services for Federal employees may use 
appropriated funds (otherwise available to such agency for salaries and 
expenses) to provide child care, in a Federal or leased facility, or 
through contract, for civilian employees of such agency.

    (b) Affordability.--Amounts so provided with respect to any such 
facility or contractor shall be applied to improve the affordability of 
child care for lower income Federal employees using

[[Page 115 STAT. 553]]

or seeking to use the child care services offered by such facility or 
contractor.
    (c) Advances.--Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, amounts paid to 
licensed or regulated child care providers may be in advance of services 
rendered, covering agreed upon periods, as appropriate.
    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive 
agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 105 of title 5, 
United States Code, but does not include the General Accounting Office.
    (e) Notification.--None of the funds made available in this or any 
other Act may be used to implement the provisions of this section absent 
advance notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 631. <<NOTE: Breastfeeding.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a 
Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are 
otherwise authorized to be present at the location.

    Sec. 632. Nothwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, United States 
Code, or section 610 of this Act, funds made available for fiscal year 
2002 by this or any other Act shall be available for the interagency 
funding of specific projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to 
carry out the purposes of the National Science and Technology Council 
(authorized by Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple 
Federal departments, agencies, or entities: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  That the Office of Management 
and Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science; and the 
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 90 days after 
enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 633. Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall indicate the agency 
providing the funds and the amount provided. <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  
This provision shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and grants 
received by a State receiving Federal funds.

    Sec. 634. Subsection (f) of section 403 of Public Law 103-356 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2001'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2002''.
    Sec. 635. Section 3 of Public Law 93-346 as amended (3 U.S.C. 111 
note) is amended by inserting ``, utilities (including electrical) 
for,'' after ``military staffing''.
    Sec. 636. Section 6 of Public Law 93-346 as amended (3 U.S.C. 111 
note) is amended by inserting ``, or for use at official functions in or 
about,'' after ``about''.
    Sec. 637. <<NOTE: 3 USC 112 note.>>  During fiscal year 2002 and 
thereafter, the head of an entity named in 3 U.S.C. 112 may, with 
respect to civilian personnel of any branch of the Federal Government 
performing duties in such entity, exercise authority comparable to the 
authority that may by law (including chapter 57 and sections 8344 and 
8468 of title 5, United States Code) be exercised with respect to the 
employees of an Executive agency (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105) by the 
head of such Executive agency, and the authority granted by this section 
shall be in addition to any other authority available in law.

    Sec. 638. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Each Executive agency covered by 
section 630 of the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 
1999

[[Page 115 STAT. 554]]

(as contained in section 101(h) of division A of Public Law 105-277) 
shall submit a report 60 days after the close of fiscal year 2001 to the 
Office of Personnel Management regarding its efforts to implement the 
intent of such section 630. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  The Office of Personnel 
Management shall prepare a summary of the information received and shall 
submit the summary report to the House Committee on Appropriations 90 
days after the close of fiscal year 2001.

    Sec. 639. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of Personal 
Information on Use of Internet.--None of the funds made available in 
this or any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregate list, 
        derived from any means, that includes the collection of any 
        personally identifiable information relating to an individual's 
        access to or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the 
        agency; or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregate list, derived from any means, that includes 

        the collection of any personally identifiable information 
        relating to an individual's access to or use of any 
        nongovernmental Internet site.

    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet site 
        and is necessarily incident to the rendition of the Internet 
        site services or to the protection of the rights or property of 
        the provider of the Internet site.

    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety and 
        soundness, overall financial condition, management practices and 
        policies and compliance with applicable standards as provided in 
        law.

    Sec. 640. (a) Section 8335(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking the period at the end of the first sentence and 
inserting: ``or completes the age and service requirements for an 
annuity under section 8336, whichever occurs later.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 8335 note.>>  The amendment made 
by subsection (a) takes effect on the date of enactment with regard to 
any individual subject to chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, who 
is employed as an air traffic controller on that date.

    Sec. 641. (a) In General.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting after section 4507 the following:

[[Page 115 STAT. 555]]

``Sec. 4507a. Awarding of ranks to other senior career employees

    ``(a) For the purpose of this section, the term `senior career 
employee' means an individual appointed to a position classified above 
GS-15 and paid under section 5376 who is not serving--
            ``(1) under a time-limited appointment; or
            ``(2) in a position that is excepted from the competitive 
        service because of its confidential or policy-making character.

    ``(b) Each agency employing senior career employees shall 
submit annually to the Office of Personnel Management recommendations of 
senior career employees in the agency to be 
awarded the rank of Meritorious Senior Professional or Distinguished 
Senior Professional, which may be awarded by the President for sustained 
accomplishment or sustained extraordinary 
accomplishment, respectively.
    ``(c) The recommendations shall be made, reviewed, and awarded under 
the same terms and conditions (to the extent determined by the Office of 
Personnel Management) that apply to rank awards for members of the 
Senior Executive Service under section 4507.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Section 4506 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``the agency awards program'' and inserting ``the 
awards programs''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 45 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 4507 the following:

``4507a. Awarding of ranks to other senior career employees.''.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date. 5 USC 4506 note.>>  The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect for awards granted in 2003.

    Sec. 642. Section 640(c) of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-58; 2 U.S.C. 437g note) is 
amended by striking ``violations occurring between January 1, 2000 and 
December 31, 2001'' and inserting ``violations that relate to reporting 
periods that begin on or after January 1, 2000, and that end on or 
before December 31, 2003''.
    Sec. 643. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision providing 
prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also includes a 
provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF Health Plans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the plan 
        objects to such coverage on the basis of religious beliefs.

    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses 
to prescribe or otherwise provide for contraceptives because such 
activities would be contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or 
moral convictions.
    (d) <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to require coverage of abortion or abortion-related services.

    Sec. 644. The Congress of the United States recognizes the United 
States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) as the official anti-doping agency for 
Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic sport in the United States.

[[Page 115 STAT. 556]]

    Sec. 645. (a) Section 1238(e)(3) of the Floyd D. Spence National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted by Public Law 
106-398) <<NOTE: 22 USC 7002.>>  is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The executive director and any personnel who are employees 
of the United States-China Security Review Commission shall be employees 
under section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of 
chapters 63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of that title.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 22 USC 7002 note.>>  The amendment made 
by this section shall take effect on January 3, 2001.

    Sec. 646. <<NOTE: Pay raise. 5 USC 5303 note.>>  (a) The adjustment 
in rates of basic pay for the statutory pay systems that takes effect in 
fiscal year 2002 under sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be an increase of 4.6 percent.

    (b) Funds used to carry out this section shall be paid from 
appropriations which are made to each applicable department or agency 
for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 647. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Not later than 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of each 
applicable department or agency shall submit to the Committee on 
Appropriations a report detailing what policies and procedures are in 
place for each department or agency to give first priority to the 
location of new offices and other facilities in rural areas, as directed 
by the Rural Development Act of 1972.

    Sec. 648. Deadline for Submission of Annual Reports by United 
States-China Security Review Commission. Section 1238(c)(1) of the Floyd 
D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as 
enacted into law by section 1 of Public Law 106-398) is amended by 
striking ``March'' and inserting ``June''.
    Sec. 649. Subsection (a) of section 2105 of title 44, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) The Archivist is authorized to select, appoint, employ, and 
fix the compensation of such officers and employees, pursuant to part 
III of title 5, as are necessary to perform the functions of the 
Archivist and the Administration.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Archivist is authorized to 
appoint, subject to the consultation requirements set forth in paragraph 
(f)(2) of section 2203 of this title, a director at each Presidential 
archival depository established under section 2112 of this title. The 
Archivist may appoint a director without regard to subchapter I and 
subchapter VIII of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, governing 
appointments in the competitive service and the Senior Executive 
Service. A director so appointed shall be responsible for the care and 
preservation of the Presidential records and historical materials 
deposited in a Presidential archival depository, shall serve at the 
pleasure of the Archivist and shall perform such other functions as the 
Archivist may specify.''.
    Sec. 650. <<NOTE: Breast Cancer Research Stamp Act of 2001. 39 USC 
101 note.>>  Reauthorization of Breast Cancer Research Special Postage 
Stamp. (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Breast 
Cancer Research Stamp Act of 2001''.

    (b) Reauthorization and Inapplicability of Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 414 of title 39, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking subsection (g) and inserting the 
        following:

[[Page 115 STAT. 557]]

    ``(g) For purposes of section 416 (including any regulation 
prescribed under subsection (e)(1)(C) of that section), the special 
postage stamp issued under this section shall not apply to any 
limitation relating to whether more than 1 semipostal may be offered for 
sale at the same time.
    ``(h) <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  This section shall cease to be 
effective after December 31, 2003.''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 39 USC 414 note.>>  Effective date.--The 
        amendment made by this subsection shall take effect on the 
        earlier of--
                    (A) the date of enactment of this Act; or
                    (B) July 29, 2002.

    (c) Rate of Postage.--Section 414(b) of title 39, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of not to exceed 25 
        percent'' and inserting ``of not less than 15 percent''; and
            (2) by adding after the sentence following paragraph (3) the 
        following: ``The special rate of postage of an individual stamp 
        under this section shall be an amount that is evenly divisible 
        by 5.''.

    Sec. 651. Amendment to Title 39. Section 5402(d) of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``(1)'' after ``(d)''; and
            (2) inserting at the end the following:

    ``(2)(A) In the exercise of its authority under paragraph (1), the 
Postal Service may require any air carrier to accept as mail shipments 
of day-old poultry and such other live animals as postal regulations 
allow to be transmitted as mail matter. The authority of the Postal 
Service under this subparagraph shall not apply in the case of any air 
carrier who commonly and regularly refuses to accept any live animals as 
cargo.
    ``(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Postal Service 
is authorized to assess, as postage to be paid by the mailers of any 
shipments covered by subparagraph (A), a reasonable surcharge that the 
Postal Service determines in its discretion to be adequate to compensate 
air carriers for any necessary additional expense incurred in handling 
such shipments.
    ``(C) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  The authority of the Postal Service 
under subparagraph (B) shall apply during the period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this paragraph, and ending June 30, 2002.''.

    Sec. 652. <<NOTE: 9/11 Heroes Stamp Act of 2001. 39 USC 416 note.>>  
The 9/11 Heroes Stamp of 2001. (a) Short Title.--This section may be 
cited as the ``9/11 Heroes Stamp Act of 2001''.

    (b) In General.--In order to afford the public a direct and tangible 
way to provide assistance to the families of emergency relief personnel 
killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty in connection with 
the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001, 
the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal in accordance 
with subsection (c).
    (c) Requirements.--The provisions of section 416(a), (c), (d), and 
(f) of title 39, United States Code, shall apply as practicable with 
respect to the semipostal described in subsection (b), subject to the 
following:
            (1) Rate of postage.--Section 414(c) of title 39, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of not to exceed 
                25 percent'' and inserting ``of not less than 15 
                percent''; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 558]]

                    (B) by adding after the sentence following paragraph 
                (2) the following: ``The special rate of postage of an 
                individual stamp under this section shall be an amount 
                that is evenly divisible by 5.''.
            (2) Disposition of amounts becoming available.--All amounts 
        becoming available from the sale of the semipostal (as 
        determined under such section) shall be transferred to the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency under such arrangements as 
        the Postal Service shall by mutual agreement with such agency 
        establish in order to carry out the purposes of this section.
            (3) Commencement and termination dates.--Stamps under this 
        section shall be issued--
                    (A) beginning on the earliest date practicable; and
                    (B) for such period of time as the Postal Service 
                considers necessary and appropriate, but in no event 
                after 
                December 31, 2004.

    (d) Limitation.--For purposes of section 416 of title 39, United 
States Code (including any regulation prescribed under subsection 
(e)(1)(C) of that section), the semipostal postage stamp issued under 
this section shall not apply to any limitation relating to whether more 
than one semipostal may be offered for sale at the same time.
    (e) Design.--It is the sense of the Congress that the semipostal 
issued under this section should depict, by such design as the Postal 
Service considers to be most appropriate, the efforts of emergency 
relief personnel at the site of the World Trade Center in New York City 
and the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia.
    (f) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``emergency relief personnel'' means 
        firefighters, law enforcement officers, paramedics, emergency 
        medical technicians, members of the clergy, and other 
        individuals (including employees of legally organized and 
        recognized volunteer organizations, whether compensated or not) 
        who, in the course of professional duties, respond to fire, 
        medical, hazardous material, or other similar emergencies; and
            (2) the term ``semipostal'' has the meaning given such term 
        by section 416 of title 39, United States Code.

    Sec. 653. <<NOTE: Stamp Out Domestic Violence Act of 2001. 39 USC 
416 note.>>  Domestic Violence Semipostal Stamp. (a) Short Title.--This 
section may be cited as the ``Stamp Out Domestic Violence Act of 2001''.

    (b) In General.--In order to afford the public a direct and tangible 
way to contribute to funding for domestic violence programs, the United 
States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal in accordance with 
subsection (c).
    (c) Requirements.--The provisions of section 416 of title 39, United 
States Code, shall apply as practicable with respect to the semipostal 
described in subsection (b), subject to the following:
            (1) Disposition of amounts becoming available.--All amounts 
        becoming available from the sale of the semipostal (as 
        determined under such section) shall be transferred to the 
        Department of Health and Human Services under such arrangements 
        as the Postal Service shall by mutual agreement with such agency 
        establish in order to carry out the purposes of this section.
            (2) Commencement and termination dates.--Stamps under this 
        section shall be issued--

[[Page 115 STAT. 559]]

                    (A) beginning on the earliest date practicable, but 
                not later than January 1, 2004; and
                    (B) for such period of time as the Postal Service 
                considers necessary and appropriate, but in no event 
                after 
                December 31, 2006.

    (d) Limitation.--For purposes of section 416 of title 39, United 
States Code (including any regulation prescribed under subsection 
(e)(1)(C) of that section), the semipostal stamp issued under this 
section shall not apply to any limitation relating to whether more than 
one semipostal may be offered for sale at the same time.
    (e) Definition.--For purposes of this section the term 
``semipostal'' has the meaning given such term by section 416 of title 
39, United States Code.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2002''.

    Approved November 12, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2590 (S. 1398):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-152 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-253 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-57 accompanying S. 1398 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            July 25, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 19, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 31, House agreed to conference report.
            Nov. 1, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            Nov. 12, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>