[107th Congress Public Law 332]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ332.107]

[[Page 116 STAT. 2871]]

Public Law 107-332
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for additional lands to be included within the boundaries of 
the Homestead National Monument of America in the State of Nebraska, and 
        for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 16, 2002 -  [H.R. 38]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Homestead National Monument 
of America Additions Act. 16 USC 450u note.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Homestead National Monument of 
America Additions Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Proposed 
        Boundary Adjustment, Homestead National Monument of America, 
        Gage County, Nebraska'', numbered 368/80036 and dated March 
        2000.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Homestead 
        National Monument of America, Nebraska.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. ADDITIONS TO HOMESTEAD NATIONAL MONUMENT OF AMERICA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire, by donation or by 
purchase with appropriated or donated funds, from willing sellers only, 
the privately-owned property described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
subsection (b). The Secretary may acquire, by donation only, the State-
owned property described in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b).
    (b) Parcels.--The parcels referred to in subsection (a) are the 
following:
            (1) Graff property.--The parcel consisting of approximately 
        15.98 acres of privately-owned land, as depicted on the map.
            (2) Pioneer acres green.--The parcel consisting of 
        approximately 3 acres of privately-owned land, as depicted on 
        the map.
            (3) Segment of state highway 4.--The parcel consisting of 
        approximately 5.6 acres of State-owned land including Nebraska 
        State Highway 4, as depicted on the map.
            (4) State triangle.--The parcel consisting of approximately 
        8.3 acres of State-owned land, as depicted on the map.

    (c) Boundary Adjustment.--Upon acquisition of a parcel described in 
subsection (b), the Secretary shall modify the boundary of the Monument 
to include the parcel. Any parcel included within

[[Page 116 STAT. 2872]]

the boundary shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the 
Monument.
    (d) Deadline for Acquisition of Certain Property.--If the property 
described in subsection (b)(1) is not acquired by the Secretary from a 
willing seller within 5 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall no longer be authorized to acquire such 
property pursuant to this Act and such property shall not become part of 
the Monument pursuant to this Act.
    (e) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file in the 
appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this Act $400,000.

SEC. 4. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.

    The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the State 
of Nebraska, Gage County, local units of government, private groups, and 
individuals for operation, maintenance, interpretation, recreation, and 
other purposes related to the proposed Homestead Heritage Highway to be 
located in the general vicinity of the Monument.

    Approved December 16, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 38:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-325 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-260 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Dec. 11, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>