[107th Congress Public Law 137]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ137.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 3]]

Public Law 107-137
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to establish the Ronald 
       Reagan Boyhood Home National Historic Site, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Feb. 6, 2002 -  [H.R. 400]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Illinois. 16 USC 461 
note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. RONALD REAGAN BOYHOOD HOME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Acquisition of Property.--As soon as practicable after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall purchase with donated 
or appropriated funds, at fair market value and from a willing owner 
only, fee simple, unencumbered title to the Property and to any personal 
property related to the Property which the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate for the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Establishment of Historic Site.--After the Property is acquired 
by the Secretary, the Secretary shall designate the Property as the 
Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home National Historic Site.
    (c) Land Description.--The Secretary shall ensure that a copy of the 
land description referred to in section 2(2) is on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Management of Historic Site.--
            (1) Cooperative agreement.--The Secretary shall enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home 
        Foundation for the management, operation, and use of the 
        Historic Site. The cooperative agreement shall provide for the 
        preservation of the Property in a manner that preserves the 
        historical significance thereof and upon such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary considers necessary to protect the 
        interests of the United States.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> General management plan.--Not later 
        than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home 
        Foundation, shall complete a general management plan for the 
        Historic Site that defines the role and responsibility of the 
        Secretary with regard to the interpretation and the preservation 
        of the Historic Site.

    (e) Applicability of Other Laws.--The Secretary shall administer the 
Historic Site in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the 
provisions of laws generally applicable to national historic sites, 
including the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park 
Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 
1-4), and the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the preservation of 
historic American sites, buildings, objects

[[Page 116 STAT. 4]]

and antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes'', 
approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) The term ``Historic Site'' means the Ronald Reagan 
        Boyhood Home National Historic Site.
            (2) The term ``Property'' means the property commonly known 
        as the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Complex located in Dixon, Illinois, 
        (including any structures thereon), further described as 
        follows:
                    The North Half (N\1/2\) of Lot Three (3), Block One 
                Hundred and Three (103), of the original Town (now City) 
                of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, and more commonly known 
                as 816 South Hennepin Avenue, Dixon, Illinois. (Reagan 
                Boyhood Home)
                    The South Half (S\1/2\) of Lot Two (2), Block One 
                Hundred and Three (103), of the original Town (now City) 
                of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, and more commonly known 
                as 810 South Hennepin Avenue, Dixon, Illinois. (Visitors 
                Center)
                    The South two-thirds (S\2/3\rds) of Lot Four (4) in 
                Block One Hundred Three (103) in the original Town (now 
                City) of Dixon, Lee County, Illinois, and more commonly 
                known as 821 South Galena Avenue, Dixon, Illinois. 
                (Parking Lot)
                    The Westerly Ninety feet of the Southerly One half 
                (S\1/2\) of Lot 3 in Block 103 in the Town (now City) of 
                Dixon, Lee County, Illinois. (Park with statue of 
                President Reagan)
                    Legal title to all of the foregoing is: Fifth Third 
                Bank, as successor trustee to First Bank/Dixon (later 
                known as Grand Premier Trust) as trustee under Trust 
                Agreement dated August 15, 1980 and known as Trust No. 
                440.
                    Said property is also located within an historical 
                district created by the City of Dixon pursuant to 
                Ordinance No. 1329 dated June 16, 1986 as amended. The 
                historical district was created pursuant to Title VI, 
                Chapter 16 of the City Code of the City of Dixon.

[[Page 116 STAT. 5]]

            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

    Approved February 6, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 400:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-268 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Nov. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Jan. 29, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>