[107th Congress Public Law 111]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ111.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 2095]]

Public Law 107-111
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To reauthorize the African Elephant Conservation Act. <<NOTE: Jan. 8, 
                          2002 -  [H.R. 643]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: African Elephant 
Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2001.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 4201 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``African Elephant Conservation 
Reauthorization Act of 2001''.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION ACT.

    Section 2306 of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
4245) is amended by striking ``1997'' and all that follows through 
``2002'' and inserting ``2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007''.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    Section 2306 of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
4245) is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``There are authorized'' and inserting ``(a) 
        In General.--There is authorized''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Administrative Expenses.--Of amounts available each fiscal 
year to carry out this Act, the Secretary may expend not more than 3 
percent or $80,000, whichever is greater, to pay the administrative 
expenses necessary to carry out this Act.''.

SEC. 4. COOPERATION.

    Part I of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4211 et 
seq.) is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 2104. <<NOTE: 16 USC 4214.>> ADVISORY GROUP.

    ``(a) In General.--To assist in carrying out this Act, the Secretary 
may convene an advisory group consisting of individuals representing 
public and private organizations actively involved in the conservation 
of African elephants.
    ``(b) Public Participation.--
            ``(1) Meetings.--The Advisory Group shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that each meeting of the advisory group 
                is open to the public; and
                    ``(B) provide, at each meeting, an opportunity for 
                interested persons to present oral or written statements 
                concerning items on the agenda.
            ``(2) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide to the public 
        timely notice of each meeting of the advisory group.

[[Page 115 STAT. 2096]]

            ``(3) Minutes.--Minutes of each meeting of the advisory 
        group shall be kept by the Secretary and shall be made available 
        to the public.

    ``(c) Exemption From Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the advisory 
group.''.

SEC. 5. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.

    Section 2101 of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
4211) is amended by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f), and 
by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Project Sustainability.--To the maximum extent practical, in 
determining whether to approve project proposals under this section, the 
Secretary shall give consideration to projects that will enhance 
sustainable conservation programs to ensure effective long-term 
conservation of African elephants.''.

SEC. 6. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--The African Elephant 
Conservation Act is amended as follows:
            (1) Section 2101(a) (16 U.S.C. 4211(a)) is amended by 
        striking ``African Elephant Conservation''.
            (2) Section 2102 (16 U.S.C. 4212) is amended by striking the 
        section heading and all that follows through ``(d) Acceptance 
        and Use of Donations.--'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 2102. ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF DONATIONS.''.

            (3) Section 2304 (16 U.S.C. 4243) is repealed.
            (4) Section 2305(4) (16 U.S.C. 4244(4)) is amended by 
        striking ``the African Elephant Conservation Fund established by 
        section 2102'' and inserting ``the account established by 
        division A, section 101(e), title I of Public Law 105-277 under 
        the heading `multinational species conservation fund' ''.

    (b) Technical Correction.--Title I of section 101(e) of division A 
of Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-237) <<NOTE: 16 USC 4246.>> is 
amended under the heading ``multinational species conservation fund'' by 
striking ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act, subchapter I'' and 
inserting ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994, part I''.

    Approved January 8, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 643:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-93 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-104 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            June 12, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 18, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>