[107th Congress Public Law 112]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ112.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 2097]]

Public Law 107-112
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To reauthorize the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 
               1994. <<NOTE: Jan. 8, 2002 -  [H.R. 645]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Rhinoceros and Tiger 
Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2001.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 5301 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation 
Reauthorization Act of 2001''.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF RHINOCEROS AND TIGER CONSERVATION ACT OF 
            1994.

    Section 9 of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 5306) is amended by striking ``1996 through 2002'' and inserting 
``2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007''.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    Section 9 of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 5306) is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``There are authorized'' and inserting ``(a) 
        In General.--There is authorized''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Administrative Expenses.--Of amounts available each fiscal 
year to carry out this Act, the Secretary may expend not more than 3 
percent or $80,000, whichever is greater, to pay the administrative 
expenses necessary to carry out this Act.''.

SEC. 4. COOPERATION.

    The Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 is further amended 
by redesignating section 9 (16 U.S.C. 5306) as section 10, and by 
inserting after section 8 the following:

``SEC. 9. <<NOTE: 16 USC 5305c.>> ADVISORY GROUP.

    ``(a) In General.--To assist in carrying out this Act, the Secretary 
may convene an advisory group consisting of individuals representing 
public and private organizations actively involved in the conservation 
of rhinoceros and tiger species.
    ``(b) Public Participation.--
            ``(1) Meetings.--The Advisory Group shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that each meeting of the advisory group 
                is open to the public; and
                    ``(B) provide, at each meeting, an opportunity for 
                interested persons to present oral or written statements 
                concerning items on the agenda.
            ``(2) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide to the public 
        timely notice of each meeting of the advisory group.

[[Page 115 STAT. 2098]]

            ``(3) Minutes.--Minutes of each meeting of the advisory 
        group shall be kept by the Secretary and shall be made available 
        to the public.

    ``(c) Exemption From Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the advisory 
group.''.

SEC. 5. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.

    Section 5(e) of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 
(16 U.S.C. 5304) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Project Sustainability.--To the maximum extent practical, in 
determining whether to approve project proposals under this section, the 
Secretary shall give consideration to projects which will enhance 
sustainable conservation programs to ensure effective long-term 
conservation of rhinoceros and tigers.''.

SEC. 6. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Conforming Amendments.--The Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation 
Act of 1994 is amended as follows:
            (1) Section 4(3) (16 U.S.C. 5303(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund established under 
        section 6(a)'' and inserting ``the account established by 
        division A, section 101(e), title I of Public Law 105-277 under 
        the heading `multinational species conservation fund' ''.
            (2) Section 6 (16 U.S.C. 5305) is amended by striking the 
        section heading and all that follows through ``(d) Acceptance 
        and Use of Donations.--'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 6. ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF DONATIONS.''.

    (b) Technical Correction.--Title I of section 101(e) of division A 
of Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-237) <<NOTE: 16 USC 4246.>> is 
amended under the heading ``multinational species conservation fund'' by 
striking ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act, subchapter I'' and 
inserting ``Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994, part I''.

    Approved January 8, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 645:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-109 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-105 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            June 25, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 18, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>