[107th Congress Public Law 125]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ125.107]

Public Law 107-125
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To provide for work authorization for nonimmigrant spouses of 
intracompany transferees, and to reduce the period of time during which 
certain intracompany transferees have to be continuously employed before 
     applying for admission to the United States. <<NOTE: Jan. 16, 
                         2002 -  [H.R. 2278]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. WORK AUTHORIZATION FOR SPOUSES OF INTRACOMPANY TRANSFEREES.

    Section 214(c)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1184(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(E) In the case of an alien spouse admitted under section 
101(a)(15)(L), who is accompanying or following to join a principal 
alien admitted under such section, the Attorney General shall authorize 
the alien spouse to engage in employment in the United States and 
provide the spouse with an `employment authorized' endorsement or other 
appropriate work permit.''.

SEC. 2. REDUCTION OF REQUIRED PERIOD OF PRIOR CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT FOR 
            CERTAIN INTRACOMPANY TRANSFEREES.

    (a) In General.--Section 214(c)(2)(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(c)(2)(A)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
``In the case of an alien seeking admission under section 101(a)(15)(L), 
the 1-year period of continuous employment required under such section 
is deemed to be reduced to a 6-month period if the importing employer 
has filed a blanket petition under this subparagraph and met the 
requirements for expedited processing of aliens covered under such 
petition.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(L)) is amended by striking 
``an alien who,'' and inserting ``subject to section 214(c)(2), an alien 
who,''.

    Approved January 16, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2278:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-188 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Sept. 5, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>