[107th Congress Public Law 308]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ308.107]

[[Page 2445]]

        NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION REAUTHORIZATION ACT

[[Page 116 STAT. 2446]]

Public Law 107-308
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To reauthorize the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, and for 
                                 other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 2, 2002 -  [H.R. 3908]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: North American Wetlands Conservation 
Reauthorization Act. 16 USC 4401 note.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``North American Wetlands Conservation 
Reauthorization Act''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENT OF NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION ACT.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of the North American Wetlands 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.).

SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

    (a) Finding.--Section 2(a)(1) (16 U.S.C. 4401(a)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``and other habitats'' and inserting ``and associated 
habitats''.
    (b) Purposes.--Section 2(b) (16 U.S.C. 4401(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``and other habitats for 
        migratory birds'' and inserting ``and habitats associated with 
        wetland ecosystems'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``wetland associated'' 
        before ``migratory bird''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by inserting ``wetland associated'' before 
                ``migratory birds''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, the United States Shorebird 
                Conservation Plan, the North American Waterbird 
                Conservation Plan, the Partners In Flight Conservation 
                Plans,'' after ``North American Waterfowl Management 
                Plan''.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION OF WETLANDS CONSERVATION PROJECT.

    Section 3(9) (16 U.S.C. 4402(9)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A) by inserting ``of a wetland 
        ecosystem and associated habitat'' after ``including water 
        rights,''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``and other habitat'' 
        and inserting ``and associated habitat''.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2447]]

SEC. 5. REAUTHORIZATION.

    Section 7(c) (16 U.S.C. 4406(c)) is amended by striking ``not to 
exceed'' and all that follows and inserting ``not to exceed--
            ``(1) $55,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            ``(2) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2004;
            ``(3) $65,000,000 for fiscal year 2005;
            ``(4) $70,000,000 for fiscal year 2006; and
            ``(5) $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2007.''.

SEC. 6. ALLOCATION.

    Section 8(a) (16 U.S.C. 4407(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``(but at least 50 per centum and 
                not more than 70 per centum thereof)'' and inserting 
                ``(but at least 30 percent and not more than 60 
                percent)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``4 per centum'' and inserting ``4 
                percent''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``(but at least 30 per 
        centum and not more than 50 per centum thereof)'' and inserting 
        ``(but at least 40 percent and not more than 70 percent)''.

SEC. 7. CLARIFICATION OF NON-FEDERAL SHARE OF THE COST OF APPROVED 
            WETLANDS CONSERVATION PROJECTS.

    Section 8(b) (16 U.S.C. 4407(b)) is amended by striking so much as 
precedes the second sentence and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), as a 
condition of providing assistance under this Act for any approved 
wetlands conservation project, the Secretary shall require that the 
portion of the costs of the project paid with amounts provided by non-
Federal United States sources is equal to at least the amount allocated 
under subsection (a) that is used for the project.
    ``(2) Federal moneys allocated under subsection (a) may be used to 
pay 100 percent of the costs of such projects located on Federal lands 
and waters, including the acquisition of inholdings within such lands 
and waters.
    ``(3)''.

SEC. 8. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) The North American Wetlands Conservation Act is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In section 2(a)(10) (16 U.S.C. 4401(a)(10)), by 
        inserting ``of 1973'' after ``Species Act''.
            (2) In section 2(a)(12) (16 U.S.C. 4401(a)(12)), by 
        inserting ``and in 1994 by the Secretary of Sedesol for Mexico'' 
        after ``United States''.
            (3) In section 3(2) (16 U.S.C. 4402(2)), by striking 
        ``Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the United 
        States House of Representatives'' and inserting ``Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives''.
            (4) In section 3(5) (16 U.S.C. 4402(5)), by inserting ``of 
        1973'' after ``Species Act''.
            (5) In section 3(6) (16 U.S.C. 4402(6)), by inserting after 
        ``1986'' the following: ``, and by the Secretary of Sedesol for 
        Mexico in 1994, and subsequent dates''.
            (6) In section 4(a)(1)(B) (16 U.S.C. 4403(a)(1)(B)), by 
        striking ``section 3(2)(B)'' and inserting ``section 
        3(g)(2)(B)''.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2448]]

            (7) In section 4(c) (16 U.S.C. 4403(c)), in the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``Commission'' and 
        inserting ``Council''.
            (8) In section 5(a)(5) (16 U.S.C. 4404(a)(5)), by inserting 
        ``of 1973'' after ``Species Act''.
            (9) In section 5(b) (16 U.S.C. 4404(b)), by striking ``by 
        January 1 of each year,'' and inserting ``each year''.
            (10) In section 5(d) (16 U.S.C. 4404(d)), by striking ``one 
        Council member'' and inserting ``2 Council members''.
            (11) In section 5(f) (16 U.S.C. 4404(f)), by striking 
        ``subsection (d)'' and inserting ``subsection (e)''.
            (12) In section 10(1)(C) (16 U.S.C. 4409(1)(C)), by striking 
        ``western hemisphere pursuant to section 17 of this Act'' and 
        inserting ``Western Hemisphere pursuant to section 16''.
            (13) In section 10(1)(D) (16 U.S.C. 4409(1)(D)), by striking 
        the period and inserting ``; and''.
            (14) In section 16(a) (16 U.S.C. 4413), by striking 
        ``western hemisphere'' and inserting ``Western Hemisphere''.

    (b)(1) Section 112(1) of Public Law 101-593 <<NOTE: 16 USC 4403.>>  
(104 Stat. 2962) is amended by striking ``and before the period''.

    (2) <<NOTE: Effective date. 16 USC 4403 note.>>  Paragraph (1) of 
this subsection shall be effective on and after the effective date of 
section 112(1) of Public Law 101-593 (104 Stat. 2962).

SEC. 9. CHESAPEAKE BAY INITIATIVE.

    Section 502(c) of the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 1998 (16 
U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 105-312) is amended by striking ``2003'' and 
inserting ``2008''.

    Approved December 2, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3908:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-421 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-304 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            May 7, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 14, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendments.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 38 (2002):
            Dec. 2, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>