[107th Congress Private Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl006.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 1]]

Private Law 107-6
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of So Hyun Jun. <<NOTE: Dec. 2, 2002 -  [H.R. 3758]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR SO HYUN JUN.

    (a) In General.--So Hyun Jun shall be classified as a child under 
section 101(b)(1)(F) of the Immigration and Nationality Act for purposes 
of approval of a relative visa petition filed under section 204 of such 
Act by her adoptive parent and the filing of an application for an 
immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If So Hyun Jun enters the United States 
before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she shall be 
considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise 
eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Deadline <<NOTE: Applicability.>> for Application and Payment of 
Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the 
application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for 
adjustment of status are filed with appropriate fees within 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to So Hyun Jun, the Secretary of 
State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, for the current 
or next following fiscal year, the worldwide level of family-sponsored 
immigrants under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of So Hyun Jun 
shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2]]

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY FOR CITIZENSHIP.

    For purposes of section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
So Hyun Jun shall be considered to have satisfied the requirements 
applicable to adopted children under section 101(b)(1) of such Act.

  Approved December 2, 2002.