[107th Congress Private Law 5]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl005.107]

 
[[Page 1]]

Private Law 107-5
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Anisha Goveas Foti. <<NOTE: Nov. 5, 2002 -  [H.R. 
                                2245]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ANISHA GOVEAS FOTI.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Anisha Goveas Foti shall be 
eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon 
filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Anisha Goveas Foti enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she shall 
be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if 
otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline <<NOTE: Applicability.>> for Application and Payment of 
Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2. REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.

    Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to 
Anisha Goveas Foti, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper 
officer to reduce by 1, during the current or next following fiscal 
year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to 
natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the 
alien's birth under section 202(e) of such Act.

    Approved November 5, 2002.