[107th Congress Public Law 368]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ368.107]


[[Page 3033]]

          NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2002

[[Page 116 STAT. 3034]]

Public Law 107-368
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 
        2007 for the National Science Foundation, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 19, 2002 -  [H.R. 4664]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of 2002. 42 USC 1861 note.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Science Foundation 
Authorization Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The National Science Foundation has made major 
        contributions for more than 50 years to strengthen and sustain 
        the Nation's academic research enterprise that is the envy of 
        the world.
            (2) The economic strength and national security of the 
        United States and the quality of life of all Americans are 
        grounded in the Nation's scientific and technological 
        capabilities.
            (3) The National Science Foundation carries out important 
        functions in supporting basic research in all science and 
        engineering disciplines and in supporting science, mathematics, 
        engineering, and technology education at all levels.
            (4) The research and education activities of the National 
        Science Foundation promote the discovery, integration, 
        dissemination, and application of new knowledge in service to 
        society and prepare future generations of scientists, 
        mathematicians, and engineers who will be necessary to ensure 
        America's leadership in the global marketplace.
            (5) The National Science Foundation must be provided with 
        sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its 
        responsibilities to develop intellectual capital, strengthen the 
        scientific infrastructure, integrate research and education, 
        enhance the delivery of mathematics and science education in the 
        United States, and improve the technological literacy of all 
        people in the United States.
            (6) The emerging global economic, scientific, and technical 
        environment challenges long-standing assumptions about domestic 
        and international policy, requiring the National Science 
        Foundation to play a more proactive role in sustaining the 
        competitive advantage of the United States through superior 
        research capabilities.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3035]]

            (7) Commercial application of the results of Federal 
        investment in basic and computing science is consistent with 
        longstanding United States technology transfer policy and is a 
        critical national priority, particularly with regard to 
        cybersecurity and other homeland security applications, because 
        of the urgent needs of commercial, academic, and individual 
        users as well as the Federal and State Governments.

SEC. 3. POLICY OBJECTIVES.

    In allocating resources made available under section 5, the 
Foundation shall have the following policy objectives:
            (1) To strengthen the Nation's lead in science and 
        technology by--
                    (A) increasing the national investment in general 
                scientific research and increasing investment in 
                strategic areas;
                    (B) balancing the Nation's research portfolio among 
                the life sciences, mathematics, the physical sciences, 
                computer and information science, geoscience, 
                engineering, and social, behavioral, and economic 
                sciences, all of which are important for the continued 
                development of enabling technologies necessary for 
                sustained international competitiveness;
                    (C) expanding the pool of scientists and engineers 
                in the United States;
                    (D) modernizing the Nation's research 
                infrastructure; and
                    (E) establishing and maintaining cooperative 
                international relationships with premier research 
                institutions, with the goal of such relationships being 
                the exchange of personnel, data, and information in an 
                effort to alleviate problems common to the global 
                community.
            (2) To increase overall workforce skills by--
                    (A) improving the quality of mathematics and science 
                education, particularly in kindergarten through grade 
                12;
                    (B) promoting access to information technology for 
                all students;
                    (C) raising postsecondary enrollment rates in 
                science, mathematics, engineering, and technology 
                disciplines for individuals identified in section 33 or 
                34 of the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b);
                    (D) increasing access to higher education in 
                science, mathematics, engineering, and technology fields 
                for students from low-income households; and
                    (E) expanding science, mathematics, engineering, and 
                technology training opportunities at institutions of 
                higher education.
            (3) To strengthen innovation by expanding the focus of 
        competitiveness and innovation policy at the regional and local 
        level.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Academic unit.--The term ``academic unit'' means a 
        department, division, institute, school, college, or other 
        subcomponent of an institution of higher education.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3036]]

            (2) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the National Science 
        Board established under section 2 of the National Science 
        Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (3) Community college.--The term ``community college'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 3301(3) of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7011(3)).
            (4) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation established under section 2 of 
        the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (5) Elementary school.--The term ``elementary school'' has 
        the meaning given that term by section 9101(18) of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801(18)).
            (6) Eligible nonprofit organization.--The term ``eligible 
        nonprofit organization'' means a nonprofit research institute, 
        or a nonprofit professional association, with demonstrated 
        experience and effectiveness in mathematics or science education 
        as determined by the Director.
            (7) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the National 
        Science Foundation established under section 2 of the National 
        Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861).
            (8) High-need local educational agency.--The term ``high-
        need local educational agency'' means a local educational agency 
        that meets one or more of the following criteria:
                    (A) It has at least one school in which 50 percent 
                or more of the enrolled students are eligible for 
                participation in the free and reduced price lunch 
                program established by the Richard B. Russell National 
                School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.).
                    (B) It has at least one school in which--
                          (i) more than 34 percent of the academic 
                      classroom teachers at the secondary level (across 
                      all academic subjects) do not have an 
                      undergraduate degree with a major or minor in, or 
                      a graduate degree in, the academic field in which 
                      they teach the largest percentage of their 
                      classes; or
                          (ii) more than 34 percent of the teachers in 
                      two of the academic departments do not have an 
                      undergraduate degree with a major or minor in, or 
                      a graduate degree in, the academic field in which 
                      they teach the largest percentage of their 
                      classes.
                    (C) It has at least one school whose teacher 
                attrition rate has been 15 percent or more over the last 
                three school years.
            (9) Institution of higher education.--The term ``institution 
        of higher education'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (10) Local educational agency.--The term ``local educational 
        agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 9101(26) of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801(26)).
            (11) Master teacher.--The term ``master teacher'' means a 
        mathematics or science teacher who works to improve the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3037]]

        instruction of mathematics or science in kindergarten through 
        grade 12 through--
                    (A) participating in the development or revision of 
                science, mathematics, engineering, or technology 
                curricula;
                    (B) serving as a mentor to mathematics or science 
                teachers;
                    (C) coordinating and assisting teachers in the use 
                of hands-on inquiry materials, equipment, and supplies, 
                and when appropriate, supervising acquisition and repair 
                of such materials;
                    (D) providing in-classroom teaching assistance to 
                mathematics or science teachers; and
                    (E) providing professional development, including 
                for the purposes of training other master teachers, to 
                mathematics and science teachers.
            (12) National research facility.--The term ``national 
        research facility'' means a research facility funded by the 
        Foundation which is available, subject to appropriate policies 
        allocating access, for use by all scientists and engineers 
        affiliated with research institutions located in the United 
        States.
            (13) Secondary school.--The term ``secondary school'' has 
        the meaning given that term by section 9101(38) of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801(38)).
            (14) State.--Except with respect to the Experimental Program 
        to Stimulate Competitive Research, the term ``State'' means one 
        of the several States, the District of Columbia, the 
        Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American 
        Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.
            (15) State educational agency.--The term ``State educational 
        agency'' has the meaning given such term by section 9101(41) of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801(41)).
            (16) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other 
        territory or possession of the United States.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2003.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $5,536,390,000 for fiscal year 2003.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $4,155,690,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities, of which 
                $704,000,000 shall be for information technology 
                research described in paragraph (1) of section 8 and 
                $301,000,000 shall be for nanoscale science and 
                engineering described in paragraph (2) of section 8;
                    (B) $1,006,250,000 shall be made available for 
                education and human resources, of which--
                          (i) $200,000,000 shall be for mathematics and 
                      science education partnerships described in 
                      section 9;

[[Page 116 STAT. 3038]]

                          (ii) $20,000,000 shall be for the Robert Noyce 
                      Scholarship Program described in section 10; and
                          (iii) $25,000,000 shall be for the science, 
                      mathematics, engineering, and technology talent 
                      expansion program described in paragraph (7) of 
                      section 8;
                    (C) $172,050,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $191,200,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses;
                    (E) $3,500,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of the National Science Board, including salaries 
                and compensation for members of the Board and staff 
                appointed under section 4 of the National Science 
                Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863), travel and 
                training costs for members of the Board and such staff, 
                general and Board operating expenses, representational 
                expenses for the Board, honorary awards made by the 
                Board, Board reports (other than the report entitled 
                ``Science and Engineering Indicators''), and contracts; 
                and
                    (F) $7,700,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

    (b) Fiscal Year 2004.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $6,390,832,000 for fiscal year 2004.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $4,799,822,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities, of which 
                $774,000,000 shall be for information technology 
                research described in paragraph (1) of section 8 and 
                $350,000,000 shall be for nanoscale science and 
                engineering described in paragraph (2) of section 8;
                    (B) $1,157,188,000 shall be made available for 
                education and human resources, of which--
                          (i) $300,000,000 shall be for mathematics and 
                      science education partnerships described in 
                      section 9;
                          (ii) $20,000,000 shall be for the Robert Noyce 
                      Scholarship Program described in section 10; and
                          (iii) $30,000,000 shall be for the science, 
                      mathematics, engineering, and technology talent 
                      expansion program described in paragraph (7) of 
                      section 8;
                    (C) $211,182,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $210,320,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses;
                    (E) $3,850,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of the National Science Board for the purposes 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(E); and
                    (F) $8,470,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

    (c) Fiscal Year 2005.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Foundation $7,378,343,000 for fiscal year 2005.
            (2) Specific allocations.--Of the amount authorized under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) $5,543,794,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out research and related activities;

[[Page 116 STAT. 3039]]

                    (B) $1,330,766,000 shall be made available to carry 
                out education and human resources, of which--
                          (i) $400,000,000 shall be for mathematics and 
                      science education partnerships described in 
                      section 9;
                          (ii) $20,000,000 shall be for the Robert Noyce 
                      Scholarship Program described in section 10; and
                          (iii) $35,000,000 shall be for the science, 
                      mathematics, engineering, and technology talent 
                      expansion program described in paragraph (7) of 
                      section 8;
                    (C) $258,879,000 shall be made available for major 
                research equipment and facilities construction;
                    (D) $231,337,000 shall be made available for 
                salaries and expenses;
                    (E) $4,250,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of the National Science Board for the purposes 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(E); and
                    (F) $9,317,000 shall be made available for the 
                Office of Inspector General.

    (d) Fiscal Year 2006.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Foundation $8,519,776,000 for fiscal year 2006.
    (e) Fiscal Year 2007.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Foundation $9,839,262,000 for fiscal year 2007.
    (f) Contingent Authorization.--
            (1) In general.--Funds are authorized to be appropriated 
        under subsections (d) and (e), contingent on a determination by 
        Congress that the Foundation has made successful progress toward 
        meeting management goals consisting of--
                    (A) strategic management of human capital;
                    (B) competitive sourcing;
                    (C) improved financial performance;
                    (D) expanded electronic government; and
                    (E) budget and performance integration.
            (2) Consideration.--In making that determination, Congress 
        shall take into consideration whether or not the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget has certified that the 
        Foundation has, overall, made successful progress toward meeting 
        those goals.

SEC. 6. OBLIGATION OF MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES 
            CONSTRUCTION FUNDS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2003.--None of the funds authorized under section 
5(a)(2)(C) may be obligated until 30 days after the first report 
required under section 14(a)(2) is transmitted to the Congress.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2004.--None of the funds authorized under section 
5(b)(2)(C) may be obligated until 30 days after the report required by 
June 15, 2003, under section 14(a)(2) is transmitted to the Congress.
    (c) Fiscal Year 2005.--None of the funds authorized under section 
5(c)(2)(C) may be obligated until 30 days after the report required by 
June 15, 2004, under section 14(a)(2) is transmitted to the Congress.
    (d) Fiscal Year 2006.--None of the funds authorized under section 
5(d) may be obligated for major research equipment and facilities 
construction until 30 days after the report required by June 15, 2005, 
under section 14(a)(2) is transmitted to the Congress.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3040]]

    (e) Fiscal Year 2007.--None of the funds authorized under section 
5(e) may be obligated for major research equipment and facilities 
construction until 30 days after the report required by June 15, 2006, 
under section 14(a)(2) is transmitted to the Congress.

SEC. 7. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> ANNUAL PLAN FOR ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of legislation 
providing for the annual appropriation of funds for the Foundation, the 
Director shall submit to the Committee on Science and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, a plan for the allocation of funds authorized by this Act 
for the corresponding fiscal year. The portion of the plan pertaining to 
Research and Related Activities shall include a description of how the 
allocation of funding--
            (1) will affect the average size and duration of research 
        grants supported by the Foundation by field of science, 
        mathematics, and engineering;
            (2) will affect trends in research support for major fields 
        and subfields of science, mathematics, and engineering, 
        including for emerging multidisciplinary research areas; and
            (3) is designed to achieve an appropriate balance among 
        major fields and subfields of science, mathematics, and 
        engineering.

SEC. 8. SPECIFIC PROGRAM AUTHORIZATIONS.

    From amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 5, the 
Director shall carry out the Foundation's research and education 
programs, including the following initiatives in accordance with this 
section:
            (1) Information technology.--An information technology 
        research program to support competitive, merit-reviewed 
        proposals for research, education, and infrastructure support in 
        areas related to cybersecurity, terascale computing systems, 
        software, networking, scalability, communications, data 
        management, and remote sensing and geospatial information 
        technologies.
            (2) Nanoscale science and engineering.--A nanoscale science 
        and engineering research and education program to support 
        competitive, merit-reviewed proposals that emphasize--
                    (A) research aimed at discovering novel phenomena, 
                processes, materials, and tools that address grand 
                challenges in materials, electronics, optoelectronics 
                and magnetics, manufacturing, the environment, and 
                health care; and
                    (B) supporting new research and interdisciplinary 
                centers and networks of excellence, including shared 
                national user facilities, infrastructure, research, and 
                education activities on the societal implications of 
                advances in nanoscale science and engineering.
            (3) Plant genome research.--(A) A plant genome research 
        program to support competitive, merit-reviewed proposals--
                    (i) that advance the understanding of the structure, 
                organization, and function of plant genomes; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 3041]]

                    (ii) that accelerate the use of new knowledge and 
                innovative technologies toward a more complete 
                understanding of basic biological processes in plants, 
                especially in economically important plants such as corn 
                and soybeans.
            (B) Regional plant genome and gene expression research 
        centers to conduct research and dissemination activities that 
        may include--
                    (i) basic plant genomics research and genomics 
                applications, including those related to cultivation of 
                crops in extreme environments and to cultivation of 
                crops with reduced reliance on fertilizer, herbicides, 
                and pesticides;
                    (ii) basic research that will contribute to the 
                development or use of innovative plant-derived products;
                    (iii) basic research on alternative uses for plants 
                and plant materials, including the use of plants as 
                renewable feedstock for alternative energy production 
                and nonpetroleum-based industrial chemicals and 
                precursors; and
                    (iv) basic research and dissemination of information 
                on the ecological and other consequences of genetically 
                engineered plants.
        Competitive, merit-based awards for centers under this 
        subparagraph shall be to consortia of institutions of higher 
        education or nonprofit organizations. The Director shall, to the 
        extent practicable, ensure that research centers established 
        under this subparagraph collectively examine as many different 
        agricultural environments as possible, enhance the excellence of 
        existing Foundation programs, and focus on plants of economic 
        importance.
            (C) Research partnerships to focus on--
                    (i) basic genomic research on crops grown in the 
                developing world;
                    (ii) basic plant genome research that will advance 
                and expedite the development of improved cultivars, 
                including those that are pest-resistant, produce 
                increased yield, reduce the need for fertilizers, 
                herbicides, or pesticides, or have increased tolerance 
                to stress;
                    (iii) basic research that could lead to the 
                development of technologies to produce pharmaceutical 
                compounds such as vaccines and medications in plants 
                that can be grown in the developing world; and
                    (iv) research on the impact of plant biotechnology 
                on the social, political, economic, health, and 
                environmental conditions in countries in the developing 
                world.
        Competitive, merit-based awards for partnerships under this 
        subparagraph shall be to institutions of higher education, 
        nonprofit organizations, or consortia of such entities that 
        enter into a partnership that shall include one or more research 
        institutions in one or more developing nations, and that may 
        also include for-profit companies involved in plant 
        biotechnology. The Director, by means of outreach, shall 
        encourage inclusion of historically Black colleges and 
        universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, tribally controlled 
        colleges and universities, Alaska Native-serving institutions, 
        and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions in consortia that enter 
        into such partnerships.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3042]]

            (4) Innovation partnerships.--An innovation partnerships 
        program to support competitive, merit-reviewed proposals that 
        seek to stimulate innovation at the regional level through new 
        partnerships involving States, regional governmental entities, 
        local governmental entities, industry, academic institutions, 
        and other related organizations in strategically important 
        fields of science and technology.
            (5) Mathematics and science education partnerships.--The 
        mathematics and science education partnerships program described 
        in section 9.
            (6) Robert noyce scholarship program.--The Robert Noyce 
        Scholarship Program described in section 10.
            (7) Science, mathematics, engineering, and technology talent 
        expansion program.--(A) A program of competitive, merit-based, 
        multi-year grants for eligible applicants to increase the number 
        of students studying toward and completing associate's or 
        bachelor's degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, and 
        technology, particularly in fields that have faced declining 
        enrollment in recent years.
            (B) In selecting projects under this paragraph, the Director 
        shall strive to increase the number of students studying toward 
        and completing baccalaureate degrees, concentrations, or 
        certificates in science, mathematics, engineering, or technology 
        who are individuals identified in section 33 or 34 of the 
        Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a 
        or 1885b).
            (C) The types of projects the Foundation may support under 
        this paragraph include those that promote high quality--
                    (i) interdisciplinary teaching;
                    (ii) undergraduate-conducted research;
                    (iii) mentor relationships for students;
                    (iv) bridge programs that enable students at 
                community colleges to matriculate directly into 
                baccalaureate science, mathematics, engineering, or 
                technology programs;
                    (v) internships carried out in partnership with 
                industry; and
                    (vi) innovative uses of digital technologies, 
                particularly at institutions of higher education that 
                serve high numbers or percentages of economically 
                disadvantaged students.
            (D)(i) In order to receive a grant under this paragraph, an 
        eligible applicant shall establish targets to increase the 
        number of students studying toward and completing associate's or 
        bachelor's degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, or 
        technology.
            (ii) A grant under this paragraph shall be awarded for a 
        period of 5 years, with the final 2 years of funding contingent 
        on the Director's determination that satisfactory progress has 
        been made by the grantee toward meeting the targets established 
        under clause (i).
            (iii) In the case of community colleges, a student who 
        transfers to a baccalaureate program, or receives a certificate 
        under an established certificate program, in science, 
        mathematics, engineering, or technology shall be counted toward 
        meeting a target established under clause (i).
            (E) For each grant awarded under this paragraph to an 
        institution of higher education, at least 1 principal 
        investigator

[[Page 116 STAT. 3043]]

        shall be in a position of administrative leadership at the 
        institution of higher education, and at least 1 principal 
        investigator shall be a faculty member from an academic 
        department included in the work of the project. For each grant 
        awarded to a consortium or partnership, at each institution of 
        higher education participating in the consortium or partnership, 
        at least 1 of the individuals responsible for carrying out 
        activities authorized under this paragraph at that institution 
        shall be in a position of administrative leadership at the 
        institution, and at least 1 shall be a faculty member from an 
        academic department included in the work of the project at that 
        institution.
            (F) In this paragraph, the term ``eligible applicant'' 
        means--
                    (i) an institution of higher education;
                    (ii) a consortium of institutions of higher 
                education; or
                    (iii) a partnership between--
                          (I) an institution of higher education or a 
                      consortium of such institutions; and
                          (II) a nonprofit organization, a State or 
                      local government, or a private company, with 
                      demonstrated experience and effectiveness in 
                      science, mathematics, engineering, or technology 
                      education.
            (8) Secondary School Systemic Initiative.--A program of 
        competitive, merit-based grants for State educational agencies 
        or local educational agencies that supports the planning and 
        implementation of agency-wide secondary school reform 
        initiatives designed to promote scientific and technological 
        literacy, meet the mathematics and science education needs of 
        students at risk of not achieving State student academic 
        achievement standards, reduce the need for basic skill training 
        by employers, and heighten college completion rates through 
        activities, such as--
                    (A) systemic alignment of secondary school curricula 
                and higher education freshman placement requirements;
                    (B) development of materials and curricula that 
                support small, theme-oriented schools and learning 
                communities;
                    (C) implementation of enriched mathematics and 
                science curricula for all secondary school students;
                    (D) strengthened teacher training in mathematics, 
                science, and reading as it relates to technical and 
                specialized texts;
                    (E) laboratory improvement and provision of 
                instrumentation as part of a comprehensive program to 
                enhance the quality of mathematics, science, 
                engineering, and technology instruction; or
                    (F) other secondary school systemic initiatives that 
                enable grantees to leverage private sector funding for 
                mathematics, science, engineering, and technology 
                scholarships.
        In awarding grants under this paragraph, the Director shall give 
        priority to agencies that serve high poverty communities.
            (9) Experimental program to stimulate competitive 
        research.--The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
        Research, established under section 113 of the National

[[Page 116 STAT. 3044]]

        Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1862g), 
        that is designed to enhance--
                    (A) research in mathematics, science, and 
                engineering throughout the States eligible to 
                participate in the program and the Commonwealth of 
                Puerto Rico;
                    (B) research infrastructure in the States eligible 
                to participate in the program and the Commonwealth of 
                Puerto Rico; and
                    (C) the geographic distribution of Federal research 
                and development support.
            (10) The science and engineering equal opportunities act.--A 
        comprehensive program designed to advance the goals of the 
        Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885 
        et seq.), including programs to--
                    (A) provide support to minority-serving 
                institutions; and
                    (B) ensure that reports required under sections 36 
                and 37 of such Act are submitted to the--
                          (i) Committee on Science of the House of 
                      Representatives;
                          (ii) Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
                      and Pensions of the Senate; and
                          (iii) Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                      Transportation of the Senate.
            (11) Astronomical research and instrumentation.--An 
        astronomical research program to support competitive, merit-
        reviewed proposals that--
                    (A) will advance understanding of--
                          (i) the origins and characteristics of 
                      planets, the Sun, other stars, the Milky Way 
                      Galaxy, and extragalactic objects (such as 
                      clusters of galaxies and quasars); and
                          (ii) the structure and origin of the universe; 
                      and
                    (B) support related activities such as developing 
                advanced technologies and instrumentation, funding 
                undergraduate and graduate students, and satisfying 
                other instrumentation and research needs.

SEC. 9. MATHEMATICS AND SCIENCE EDUCATION <<NOTE: 42 USC 
            1862n.>> PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Director shall carry out a program 
        to award grants to institutions of higher education or eligible 
        nonprofit organizations (or consortia of such institutions or 
        organizations) to establish mathematics and science education 
        partnership programs to improve elementary and secondary 
        mathematics and science instruction.
            (B) Grants shall be awarded under this subsection on a 
        competitive, merit-reviewed basis.
            (2) Partnerships.--(A) In order to be eligible to receive a 
        grant under this subsection, an institution of higher education 
        or eligible nonprofit organization (or consortium of such 
        institutions or organizations) shall enter into a partnership 
        with one or more local educational agencies that may also 
        include a State educational agency or one or more businesses.
            (B) A participating institution of higher education shall 
        include mathematics, science, or engineering departments in

[[Page 116 STAT. 3045]]

        the programs carried out through a partnership under this 
        paragraph.
            (3) Uses of funds.--Grants awarded under this subsection 
        shall be used for activities that draw upon the expertise of the 
        partners to improve elementary or secondary education in 
        mathematics or science and that are consistent with State 
        mathematics and science student academic achievement standards, 
        including--
                    (A) recruiting and preparing students for careers in 
                elementary or secondary mathematics or science 
                education;
                    (B) offering professional development programs, 
                including summer or academic year institutes or 
                workshops, designed to strengthen the capabilities of 
                mathematics and science teachers;
                    (C) offering innovative preservice and inservice 
                programs that instruct teachers on using technology more 
                effectively in teaching mathematics and science, 
                including programs that recruit and train undergraduate 
                and graduate students to provide technical support to 
                teachers;
                    (D) developing distance learning programs for 
                teachers or students, including developing courses, 
                curricular materials, and other resources for the in-
                service professional development of teachers that are 
                made available to teachers through the Internet;
                    (E) developing a cadre of master teachers who will 
                promote reform and improvement in schools;
                    (F) offering teacher preparation and certification 
                programs for professional mathematicians, scientists, 
                and engineers who wish to begin a career in teaching;
                    (G) developing tools to evaluate activities 
                conducted under this subsection;
                    (H) developing or adapting elementary school and 
                secondary school mathematics and science curricular 
                materials that incorporate contemporary research on the 
                science of learning;
                    (I) developing initiatives to increase and sustain 
                the number, quality, and diversity of prekindergarten 
                through grade 12 teachers of mathematics and science, 
                especially in underserved areas;
                    (J) using mathematicians, scientists, and engineers 
                employed by private businesses to help recruit and train 
                mathematics and science teachers;
                    (K) developing and offering mathematics or science 
                enrichment programs for students, including after-school 
                and summer programs;
                    (L) providing research opportunities in business or 
                academia for students and teachers;
                    (M) bringing mathematicians, scientists, and 
                engineers from business and academia into elementary 
                school and secondary school classrooms; and
                    (N) any other activities the Director determines 
                will accomplish the goals of this subsection.
            (4) Master teachers.--Activities carried out in accordance 
        with paragraph (3)(E) shall--
                    (A) emphasize the training of master teachers who 
                will improve the instruction of mathematics or science 
                in kindergarten through grade 12;

[[Page 116 STAT. 3046]]

                    (B) include training in both content and pedagogy; 
                and
                    (C) provide training only to teachers who will be 
                granted sufficient nonclassroom time to serve as master 
                teachers, as demonstrated by assurances their employing 
                school has provided to the Director, in such time and 
                such manner as the Director may require.
            (5) Science enrichment programs for girls.--Activities 
        carried out in accordance with paragraph (3)(K) and (L) shall 
        include elementary school and secondary school programs to 
        encourage the ongoing interest of girls in science, mathematics, 
        engineering, and technology and to prepare girls to pursue 
        undergraduate and graduate degrees and careers in science, 
        mathematics, engineering, or technology. Funds made available 
        through awards to partnerships for the purposes of this 
        paragraph may support programs for--
                    (A) encouraging girls to pursue studies in science, 
                mathematics, engineering, and technology and to major in 
                such fields in postsecondary education;
                    (B) tutoring girls in science, mathematics, 
                engineering, and technology;
                    (C) providing mentors for girls in person and 
                through the Internet to support such girls in pursuing 
                studies in science, mathematics, engineering, and 
                technology;
                    (D) educating the parents of girls about the 
                difficulties faced by girls to maintain an interest and 
                desire to achieve in science, mathematics, engineering, 
                and technology, and enlisting the help of parents in 
                overcoming these difficulties; and
                    (E) acquainting girls with careers in science, 
                mathematics, engineering, and technology and encouraging 
                girls to plan for careers in such fields.
            (6) Research in secondary schools.--Activities carried out 
        in accordance with paragraph (3)(K) may include support for 
        research projects performed by students at secondary schools. 
        Uses of funds made available through awards to partnerships for 
        purposes of this paragraph may include--
                    (A) training secondary school mathematics and 
                science teachers in the design of research projects for 
                students;
                    (B) establishing a system for students and teachers 
                involved in research projects funded under this 
                subsection to exchange information about their projects 
                and research results; and
                    (C) assessing the educational value of the student 
                research projects by such means as tracking the academic 
                performance and choice of academic majors of students 
                conducting research.
            (7) Stipends.--Grants awarded under this subsection may be 
        used to provide stipends for teachers or students participating 
        in training or research activities that would not be part of 
        their typical classroom activities.

    (b) Selection Process.--
            (1) Application.--An institution of higher education or an 
        eligible nonprofit organization (or a consortium of such 
        institutions or organizations) seeking funding under subsection 
        (a) shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in 
        such manner, and containing such information as the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3047]]

        Director may require. The application shall include, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) a description of the partnership and the role 
                that each member will play in implementing the proposal;
                    (B) a description of each of the activities to be 
                carried out, including--
                          (i) how such activities will be aligned with 
                      State mathematics and science student academic 
                      achievement standards and with other activities 
                      that promote student achievement in mathematics 
                      and science;
                          (ii) how such activities will be based on a 
                      review of relevant research;
                          (iii) why such activities are expected to 
                      improve student performance and strengthen the 
                      quality of mathematics and science instruction; 
                      and
                          (iv) any activities that will encourage the 
                      interest of individuals identified in section 33 
                      or 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal 
                      Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b) in 
                      mathematics, science, engineering, and technology 
                      and will help prepare such individuals to pursue 
                      postsecondary studies in these fields;
                    (C) a description of the number, size, and nature of 
                any stipends that will be provided to students or 
                teachers and the reasons such stipends are needed;
                    (D) a description of how the partnership will serve 
                as a catalyst for reform of mathematics and science 
                education programs;
                    (E) a description of how the partnership will assess 
                its success;
                    (F) a description of how the partnership will 
                collaborate with the State educational agency to ensure 
                that successful partnership activities may be replicated 
                throughout the State; and
                    (G) a description of the manner in which the 
                partnership will be continued after assistance under 
                this section ends.
            (2) Review of applications.--In evaluating the applications 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Director shall consider, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) the ability of the partnership to carry out 
                effectively the proposed programs;
                    (B) the extent to which the members of the 
                partnership are committed to making the partnership a 
                central organizational focus;
                    (C) the degree to which activities carried out by 
                the partnership are based on relevant research and are 
                likely to result in increased student achievement;
                    (D) the degree to which such activities are aligned 
                with State mathematics and science student academic 
                achievement standards;
                    (E) the likelihood that the partnership will 
                demonstrate activities that can be widely implemented as 
                part of larger scale reform efforts; and
                    (F) the extent to which the activities will 
                encourage the interest of individuals identified in 
                section 33 or 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal 
                Opportunities Act

[[Page 116 STAT. 3048]]

                (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b) in mathematics, science, 
                engineering, and technology and will help prepare such 
                individuals to pursue postsecondary studies in these 
                fields.
            (3) Awards.--In awarding grants under this section, the 
        Director shall--
                    (A) give priority to applications in which the 
                partnership includes a high-need local educational 
                agency or a high-need local educational agency in which 
                at least one school does not make adequate yearly 
                progress, as determined pursuant to part A of title I of 
                the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6311 et seq.); and
                    (B) ensure that, to the extent practicable, a 
                substantial number of the partnerships funded under this 
                section include businesses.

    (c) Accountability and Dissemination.--
            (1) Assessment required.--The Director shall evaluate the 
        program established under subsection (a). At a minimum, such 
        evaluation shall--
                    (A) use a common set of benchmarks and assessment 
                tools to identify best practices and materials developed 
                and demonstrated by the partnerships; and
                    (B) to the extent practicable, compare the 
                effectiveness of practices and materials developed and 
                demonstrated by the partnerships authorized under this 
                section with those of partnerships funded by other State 
                or Federal agencies.
            (2) <<NOTE: Public information.>> Dissemination of 
        results.--(A) The results of the evaluation required under 
        paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and shall be 
        provided to the Committee on Science of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
            (B) Materials developed under the program established under 
        subsection (a) that are demonstrated to be effective shall be 
        made widely available to the public.
            (3) Annual meeting.--The Director, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Education, shall convene an annual meeting of the 
        partnerships participating under this section to foster greater 
        national collaboration.
            (4) Report on coordination.--The Director, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Education, shall provide an annual report 
        to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate describing how the 
        program authorized under this section has been and will be 
        coordinated with the program authorized under part B of title II 
        of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        6601 et seq.). The report under this paragraph shall be 
        submitted along with the President's annual budget request.
            (5) Technical assistance.--At the request of an eligible 
        partnership or a State educational agency, the Director shall 
        provide the partnership or agency with technical assistance

[[Page 116 STAT. 3049]]

        in meeting any requirements of this section, including providing 
        advice from experts on how to develop--
                    (A) a quality application for a grant; and
                    (B) quality activities from funds received from a 
                grant under this section.

SEC. 10. ROBERT NOYCE SCHOLARSHIP <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-1.>> PROGRAM.

    (a) Scholarship Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall carry out a program to 
        award grants to institutions of higher education (or consortia 
        of such institutions) to provide scholarships, stipends, and 
        programming designed to recruit and train mathematics and 
        science teachers. Such program shall be known as the ``Robert 
        Noyce Scholarship Program''.
            (2) Merit review.--Grants shall be provided under this 
        subsection on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis.
            (3) Use of grants.--Grants provided under this section shall 
        be used by institutions of higher education or consortia--
                    (A) to develop and implement a program to encourage 
                top college juniors and seniors majoring in mathematics, 
                science, and engineering at the grantee's institution to 
                become mathematics and science teachers, through--
                          (i) administering scholarships in accordance 
                      with subsection (c);
                          (ii) offering programs to help scholarship 
                      recipients to teach in elementary schools and 
                      secondary schools, including programs that will 
                      result in teacher certification or licensing; and
                          (iii) offering programs to scholarship 
                      recipients, both before and after they receive 
                      their baccalaureate degree, to enable the 
                      recipients to become better mathematics and 
                      science teachers, to fulfill the service 
                      requirements of this section, and to exchange 
                      ideas with others in their fields; or
                    (B) to develop and implement a program to encourage 
                science, mathematics, or engineering professionals to 
                become mathematics and science teachers, through--
                          (i) administering stipends in accordance with 
                      subsection (d);
                          (ii) offering programs to help stipend 
                      recipients obtain teacher certification or 
                      licensing; and
                          (iii) offering programs to stipend recipients, 
                      both during and after matriculation in the program 
                      for which the stipend is received, to enable 
                      recipients to become better mathematics and 
                      science teachers, to fulfill the service 
                      requirements of this section, and to exchange 
                      ideas with others in their fields.

    (b) Selection Process.--
            (1) Application.--An institution of higher education or 
        consortium seeking funding under this section shall submit an 
        application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Director may require. The 
        application shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) a description of the scholarship or stipend 
                program that the applicant intends to operate, including 
                the number of scholarships or the size and number of 
                stipends the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3050]]

                applicant intends to award, and the selection process 
                that will be used in awarding the scholarships or 
                stipends;
                    (B) evidence that the applicant has the capability 
                to administer the scholarship or stipend program in 
                accordance with the provisions of this section; and
                    (C) a description of the programming that will be 
                offered to scholarship or stipend recipients during and 
                after their matriculation in the program for which the 
                scholarship or stipend is received.
            (2) Review of applications.--In evaluating the applications 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Director shall consider, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) the ability of the applicant to effectively 
                carry out the program;
                    (B) the extent to which the applicant is committed 
                to making the program a central organizational focus;
                    (C) the degree to which the proposed programming 
                will enable scholarship or stipend recipients to become 
                successful mathematics and science teachers;
                    (D) the number and quality of the students that will 
                be served by the program; and
                    (E) the ability of the applicant to recruit students 
                who would otherwise not pursue a career in teaching.

    (c) Scholarship Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Scholarships under this section shall be 
        available only to students who are--
                    (A) majoring in science, mathematics, or 
                engineering; and
                    (B) in the last 2 years of a baccalaureate degree 
                program.
            (2) Selection.--Individuals shall be selected to receive 
        scholarships primarily on the basis of academic merit, with 
        consideration given to financial need and to the goal of 
        promoting the participation of individuals identified in section 
        33 or 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b).
            (3) Amount.--The Director shall establish for each year the 
        amount to be awarded for scholarships under this section for 
        that year, which shall be not less than $7,500 per year, except 
        that no individual shall receive for any year more than the cost 
        of attendance at that individual's institution. Individuals may 
        receive a maximum of 2 years of scholarship support.
            (4) Service obligation.--If an individual receives a 
        scholarship, that individual shall be required to complete, 
        within 6 years after graduation from the baccalaureate degree 
        program for which the scholarship was awarded, 2 years of 
        service as a mathematics or science teacher for each year a 
        scholarship was received. Service required under this paragraph 
        shall be performed in a high-need local educational agency.

    (d) Stipends.--
            (1) In general.--Stipends under this section shall be 
        available only to mathematics, science, and engineering 
        professionals who, while receiving the stipend, are enrolled in 
        a program to receive certification or licensing to teach.
            (2) Selection.--Individuals shall be selected to receive 
        stipends under this section primarily on the basis of academic 
        merit, with consideration given to financial need and to the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3051]]

        goal of promoting the participation of individuals identified in 
        section 33 or 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal 
        Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a or 1885b).
            (3) Duration.--Individuals may receive a maximum of 1 year 
        of stipend support.
            (4) Service obligation.--If an individual receives a stipend 
        under this section, that individual shall be required to 
        complete, within 6 years after graduation from the program for 
        which the stipend was awarded, 2 years of service as a 
        mathematics or science teacher for each year a stipend was 
        received. Service required under this paragraph shall be 
        performed in a high-need local educational agency.

    (e) Conditions of Support.--As a condition of acceptance of a 
scholarship or stipend under this section, a recipient shall enter into 
an agreement with the institution of higher education--
            (1) accepting the terms of the scholarship or stipend 
        pursuant to subsections (c) and (g), or subsection (d);
            (2) agreeing to provide the awarding institution of higher 
        education with annual certification of employment and up-to-date 
        contact information and to participate in surveys provided by 
        the institution of higher education as part of an ongoing 
        assessment program; and
            (3) establishing that any scholarship recipient shall be 
        liable to the United States for any amount that is required to 
        be repaid in accordance with the provisions of subsection (g).

    (f) Collection for Noncompliance.--
            (1) Monitoring compliance.--An institution of higher 
        education (or consortium thereof) receiving a grant under this 
        section shall, as a condition of participating in the program, 
        enter into an agreement with the Director to monitor the 
        compliance of scholarship and stipend recipients with their 
        respective service requirements.
            (2) Collection of repayment.--(A) In the event that a 
        scholarship recipient is required to repay the scholarship under 
        subsection (g), the institution shall be responsible for 
        collecting the repayment amounts.
            (B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), any such 
        repayment shall be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (C) A grantee may retain a percentage of any repayment it 
        collects to defray administrative costs associated with the 
        collection. The Director shall establish a single, fixed 
        percentage that will apply to all grantees.

    (g) Failure to Complete Service Obligation.--
            (1) General rule.--If an individual who has received a 
        scholarship under this section--
                    (A) fails to maintain an acceptable level of 
                academic standing in the educational institution in 
                which the individual is enrolled, as determined by the 
                Director;
                    (B) is dismissed from such educational institution 
                for disciplinary reasons;
                    (C) withdraws from the baccalaureate degree program 
                for which the award was made before the completion of 
                such program;
                    (D) declares that the individual does not intend to 
                fulfill the service obligation under this section; or

[[Page 116 STAT. 3052]]

                    (E) fails to fulfill the service obligation of the 
                individual under this section,
        such individual shall be liable to the United States as provided 
        in paragraph (2).
            (2) Amount of repayment.--(A) If a circumstance described in 
        paragraph (1) occurs before the completion of one year of a 
        service obligation under this section, the United States shall 
        be entitled to recover from the individual, within one year 
        after the date of the occurrence of such circumstance, an amount 
        equal to--
                    (i) the total amount of awards received by such 
                individual under this section; plus
                    (ii) the interest on the amounts of such awards 
                which would be payable if at the time the awards were 
                received they were loans bearing interest at the maximum 
                legal prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of 
                the United States,
        multiplied by 2.
            (B) If a circumstance described in paragraph (1)(D) or (E) 
        occurs after the completion of one year of a service obligation 
        under this section, the United States shall be entitled to 
        recover from the individual, within one year after the date of 
        the occurrence of such circumstance, an amount equal to the 
        total amount of awards received by such individual under this 
        section minus \1/2\ of the amount of the award received per year 
        for each full year of service completed, plus the interest on 
        such amounts which would be payable if at the time the amounts 
        were received they were loans bearing interest at the maximum 
        legal prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of the 
        United States.
            (3) Exceptions.--The Director may provide for the partial or 
        total waiver or suspension of any service or payment obligation 
        by an individual under this section whenever compliance by the 
        individual with the obligation is impossible or would involve 
        extreme hardship to the individual, or if enforcement of such 
        obligation with respect to the individual would be 
        unconscionable.

    (h) Data Collection.--Institutions or consortia receiving grants 
under this section shall supply to the Director any relevant statistical 
and demographic data on scholarship recipients and stipend recipients 
the Director may request, including information on employment required 
by subsection (e).
    (i) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``cost of attendance'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1087ll);
            (2) the term ``mathematics and science teacher'' means a 
        mathematics, science, or technology teacher at the elementary 
        school or secondary school level;
            (3) the term ``mathematics, science, or engineering 
        professional'' means a person who holds a baccalaureate, 
        masters, or doctoral degree in science, mathematics, or 
        engineering and is working in that field or a related area;
            (4) the term ``scholarship'' means an award under subsection 
        (c); and
            (5) the term ``stipend'' means an award under subsection 
        (d).

[[Page 116 STAT. 3053]]

SEC. 11. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-2.>> ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTERS FOR RESEARCH 
            ON MATHEMATICS AND SCIENCE LEARNING AND EDUCATION 
            IMPROVEMENT.

    (a) <<NOTE: Grants.>> Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Director shall award grants to 
        institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof) to 
        establish multidisciplinary Centers for Research on Learning and 
        Education Improvement.
            (B) Grants shall be awarded under this paragraph on a 
        competitive, merit-reviewed basis.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Centers shall be to conduct 
        and evaluate research in cognitive science, education, and 
        related fields and to develop ways in which the results of such 
        research can be applied in elementary school and secondary 
        school classrooms to improve the teaching of mathematics and 
        science.
            (3) Focus.--(A) Each Center shall be focused on a different 
        challenge faced by elementary school or secondary school 
        teachers of mathematics and science. In determining the research 
        focus of the Centers, the Director shall consult with the 
        National Academy of Sciences and the Secretary of Education and 
        take into account the extent to which other Federal programs 
        support research on similar questions.
            (B) The proposal solicitation issued by the Director shall 
        state the focus of each Center and applicants shall apply for 
        designation as a specific Center.
            (C) At least one Center shall focus on developing ways in 
        which the results of research described in paragraph (2) can be 
        applied, duplicated, and scaled up for use in low-performing 
        elementary schools and secondary schools to improve the teaching 
        and student achievement levels in mathematics and science.
            (D) To the extent practicable and relevant to its focus, 
        every Center shall include, as part of its research, work 
        designed to quantitatively assess and improve the ways that 
        information technology is used in the teaching of mathematics 
        and science.

    (b) Selection Process.--
            (1) Application.--An institution of higher education (or a 
        consortium of such institutions) seeking funding under this 
        section shall submit an application to the Director at such 
        time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Director may require. The application shall include, at a 
        minimum, a description of--
                    (A) the initial research projects that will be 
                undertaken by the Center and the process by which new 
                projects will be identified;
                    (B) how the Center will work with other research 
                institutions and schools to broaden the national 
                research agenda on learning and teaching;
                    (C) how the Center will promote active collaboration 
                among physical, biological, and social science 
                researchers;
                    (D) how the Center will promote active participation 
                by elementary and secondary mathematics and science 
                teachers and administrators; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 3054]]

                    (E) how the results of the Center's research can be 
                incorporated into educational practices, and how the 
                Center will assess the success of those practices.
            (2) Review of applications.--In evaluating the applications 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Director shall consider, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) the ability of the applicant to effectively 
                carry out the research program, including the activities 
                described in paragraph (1)(E);
                    (B) the experience of the applicant in conducting 
                research on the science of teaching and learning and the 
                capacity of the applicant to foster new 
                multidisciplinary collaborations;
                    (C) the capacity of the applicant to attract 
                elementary school and secondary school teachers from a 
                diverse array of schools, and with diverse professional 
                experiences, for participation in Center activities; and
                    (D) the capacity of the applicant to attract and 
                provide adequate support for graduate students to pursue 
                research at the intersection of educational practice and 
                basic research on human cognition and learning.
            (3) Awards.--The Director shall ensure, to the extent 
        practicable, that the Centers funded under this section conduct 
        research and develop educational practices designed to improve 
        the educational performance of a broad range of students, 
        including individuals identified in section 33 or 34 of the 
        Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a 
        or 1885b).

    (c) Annual Conference.--The Director shall convene an annual meeting 
of the Centers to foster collaboration among the Centers and to further 
disseminate the results of the Centers' activities.
    (d) Coordination.--The Director shall coordinate with the Secretary 
of Education in--
            (1) disseminating the results of the research conducted 
        pursuant to grants awarded under this section to elementary 
        school teachers and secondary school teachers; and
            (2) providing programming, guidance, and support to ensure 
        that such teachers--
                    (A) understand the implications of the research 
                disseminated under paragraph (1) for classroom practice; 
                and
                    (B) can use the research to improve such teachers' 
                performance in the classroom.

SEC. 12. DUPLICATION OF <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-3.>> PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Director shall review the education programs of 
the Foundation that are in operation as of the date of enactment of this 
Act to determine whether any of such programs duplicate the programs 
authorized under this Act.
    (b) Implementation.--As programs authorized under this Act are 
implemented, the Director shall--
            (1) terminate any duplicative program being carried out by 
        the Foundation or merge the duplicative program into a program 
        authorized under this Act; and
            (2) not establish any new program that duplicates a program 
        that has been implemented pursuant to this Act.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3055]]

    (c) Report.--
            (1) Review.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
        Technology Policy shall review the education programs of the 
        Foundation to ensure compliance with the provisions of this 
        section.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Submission.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter 
        as part of the annual Office of Science and Technology Policy's 
        budget submission to Congress, the Director of the Office of 
        Science and Technology Policy shall complete a report on the 
        review carried out under this subsection and shall submit the 
        report to the Committee on Science and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the 
        Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

SEC. 13. MAJOR RESEARCH <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862b 
            note. Deadline. Reports.>> INSTRUMENTATION.

    (a) Review and Assessment.--The Director shall conduct a review and 
assessment of the major research instrumentation program and, not later 
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report of 
findings and recommendations to the Committee on Science of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate. The report shall include--
            (1) estimates of the needs, by major field of science and 
        engineering and by types of institutions of higher education, 
        for the types of research instrumentation that are eligible for 
        acquisition under the guidelines of the major research 
        instrumentation program;
            (2) a description of the distribution of awards and funding 
        levels by year, by major field of science and engineering, and 
        by type of institution of higher education for the program, 
        since the inception of the major research instrumentation 
        program; and
            (3) an analysis of the impact of the major research 
        instrumentation program on the research instrumentation needs 
        that were documented in the Foundation's 1994 survey of academic 
        research instrumentation needs.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> National Academy of Sciences Assessment on 
Interdisciplinary Research and Advanced Instrumentation Centers.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Assessment.--Not later than 3 
        months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
        shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of 
        Sciences to assess the need for an interagency program to 
        establish and support fully equipped, state-of-the-art 
        university-based centers for interdisciplinary research and 
        advanced instrumentation development.
            (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 15 months after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
        transmit to the Committee on Science of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate the assessment 
        conducted by the National Academy of Sciences together with

[[Page 116 STAT. 3056]]

        the Foundation's reaction to the assessment authorized under 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 14. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-4.>> MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND 
            FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION PLAN.

    (a) Prioritization of Proposed Major Research Equipment and 
Facilities Construction.--
            (1) Development of priorities.--(A) The Director shall--
                    (i) develop a list indicating by number the relative 
                priority for funding under the major research equipment 
                and facilities construction account that the Director 
                assigns to each project the Board has approved for 
                inclusion in a future budget request; and
                    (ii) submit the list described in clause (i) to the 
                Board for approval.
            (B) The Director shall update the list prepared under 
        subparagraph (A) each time the Board approves a new project that 
        would receive funding under the major research equipment and 
        facilities construction account, as necessary to prepare reports 
        under paragraph (2), and, from time to time, submit any updated 
        list to the Board for approval.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Annual report.--Not later than 90 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act, and not later than 
        each June 15 thereafter, the Director shall transmit to the 
        Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate a report containing--
                    (A) the most recent Board-approved priority list 
                developed under paragraph (1)(A);
                    (B) a description of the criteria used to develop 
                such list; and
                    (C) a description of the major factors for each 
                project that determined the ranking of such project on 
                the list, based on the application of the criteria 
                described pursuant to subparagraph (B).
            (3) Criteria.--The criteria described pursuant to paragraph 
        (2)(B) shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) scientific merit;
                    (B) broad societal need and probable impact;
                    (C) consideration of the results of formal 
                prioritization efforts by the scientific community;
                    (D) readiness of plans for construction and 
                operation;
                    (E) the applicant's management and administrative 
                capacity of large research facilities;
                    (F) international and interagency commitments; and
                    (G) the order in which projects were approved by the 
                Board for inclusion in a future budget request.

    (b) Facilities Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Section 201(a)(1) of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 1862l(a)(1)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall prepare, and include 
        as part of the Foundation's annual budget request to Congress, a 
        plan for the proposed construction of, and repair and upgrades 
        to, national research facilities, including full life-cycle cost 
        information.''.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3057]]

            (2) Contents of plan.--Section 201(a)(2) of the National 
        Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 
        1862l(a)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(1);'' and 
                inserting ``(1), including costs for instrumentation 
                development;'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                ``construction.'' and inserting ``construction;''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) for each project funded under the major 
                research equipment and facilities construction account--
                          ``(i) estimates of the total project cost 
                      (from planning to commissioning); and
                          ``(ii) the source of funds, including Federal 
                      funding identified by appropriations category and 
                      non-Federal funding;
                    ``(E) estimates of the full life-cycle cost of each 
                national research facility;
                    ``(F) information on any plans to retire national 
                research facilities; and
                    ``(G) estimates of funding levels for grants 
                supporting research that will be conducted using each 
                national research facility.''.
            (3) Definition.--Section 2 of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 1862k note) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as 
                paragraphs (4) through (6), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) Full life-cycle cost.--The term `full life-cycle cost' 
        means all costs of planning, development, procurement, 
        construction, operations and support, and shut-down costs, 
        without regard to funding source and without regard to what 
        entity manages the project or facility involved.''.

    (c) Project Management.--No national research facility project 
funded under the major research equipment and facilities construction 
account shall be managed by an individual whose appointment to the 
Foundation is temporary.
    (d) Board Approval of Major Research Equipment and Facilities 
Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Board shall explicitly approve any 
        project to be funded out of the major research equipment and 
        facilities construction account before any funds may be 
        obligated from such account for such project.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Report.--Not later than September 15 
        of each fiscal year, the Board shall report to the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Science of the House of 
        Representatives on the conditions of any delegation of authority 
        under section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 
        (42 U.S.C. 1863) that relates to funds appropriated for any 
        project in the major research equipment and facilities 
        construction account.

    (e) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> National Academy of Sciences Study on Major 
Research Equipment and Facilities Construction.--

[[Page 116 STAT. 3058]]

            (1) Study.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into an 
        arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to perform a 
        study on setting priorities for a diverse array of disciplinary 
        and interdisciplinary Foundation-sponsored large research 
        facility projects.
            (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 15 months after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
        transmit to the Committee on Science and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the 
        Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the study conducted 
        by the National Academy of Sciences together with the 
        Foundation's reaction to the study authorized under paragraph 
        (1).

SEC. 15. ADMINISTRATIVE <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-5.>> AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Board Meetings.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4(e) of the National Science 
        Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863(e)) is amended by 
        striking the second and third sentences and inserting ``The 
        Board shall adopt procedures governing the conduct of its 
        meetings, including delivery of notice and a definition of a 
        quorum, which in no case shall be less than one-half plus one of 
        the confirmed members of the Board.''.
            (2) Open meetings.--The Board and all of its committees, 
        subcommittees, and task forces (and any other entity consisting 
        of members of the Board and reporting to the Board) shall be 
        subject to section 552b of title 5, United States Code.
            (3) Compliance audit.--The Inspector General of the 
        Foundation shall conduct an annual audit of the compliance by 
        the Board with the requirements described in paragraph (2). The 
        audit shall examine the proposed and actual content of closed 
        meetings and determine whether the closure of the meetings was 
        consistent with section 552b of title 5, United States Code.
            (4) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Report.--Not later than February 15 
        of each year, the Inspector General of the Foundation shall 
        transmit to the Committee on Science of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate the audit required 
        under paragraph (3) along with recommendations for corrective 
        actions that need to be taken to achieve fuller compliance with 
        the requirements described in paragraph (2), and recommendations 
        on how to ensure public access to the Board's deliberations.

    (b) Confidentiality of Certain Information.--Section 14(i) of the 
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1873(i)) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(i)(1)(A) Information supplied to the Foundation or a contractor 
of the Foundation in survey forms, questionnaires, or similar 
instruments for purposes of section 3(a)(5) or (6) by an individual, an 
industrial or commercial organization, or an educational, academic, or 
other nonprofit institution when the institution has received a pledge 
of confidentiality from the Foundation, shall not

[[Page 116 STAT. 3059]]

be disclosed to the public unless the information has been transformed 
into statistical or abstract formats that do not allow for the 
identification of the supplier.
    ``(B) Information that has not been transformed into formats 
described in subparagraph (A) may be used only for statistical or 
research purposes.
    ``(C) The identities of individuals, organizations, and institutions 
supplying information described in subparagraph (A) may not be disclosed 
to the public.
    ``(2) In support of functions authorized by section 3(a)(5) or (6), 
the Foundation may designate, at its discretion, authorized persons, 
including employees of Federal, State, or local agencies or 
instrumentalities (including local educational agencies) and employees 
of private organizations, to have access, for statistical or research 
purposes only, to information collected pursuant to section 3(a)(5) or 
(6) that allows for the identification of the supplier. No such person 
may--
            ``(A) publish information collected pursuant to section 
        3(a)(5) or (6) in such a manner that either an individual, an 
        industrial or commercial organization, or an educational, 
        academic, or other nonprofit institution that has received a 
        pledge of confidentiality from the Foundation can be 
        specifically identified;
            ``(B) permit anyone other than individuals authorized by the 
        Foundation to examine data that allows for such identification 
        relating to an individual, an industrial or commercial 
        organization, or an academic, educational, or other nonprofit 
        institution that has received a pledge of confidentiality from 
        the Foundation; or
            ``(C) knowingly and willfully request or obtain any 
        nondisclosable information described in paragraph (1) from the 
        Foundation under false pretenses.

    ``(3) Violation of this subsection is punishable by a fine of not 
more than $10,000, imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both.''.
    (c) Appointment.--Section 4(g) of the National Science Foundation 
Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863(g)) is amended by striking the second 
sentence and inserting ``Such staff shall be appointed by the Chairman 
and assigned at the direction of the Board.''.
    (d) Scholarship Eligibility.--The Director shall not exclude part-
time students from eligibility for scholarships under the Computer 
Science, Engineering, and Mathematics Scholarship program.

SEC. 16. SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES ACT AMENDMENTS.

    Section 32 of the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1885) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``backgrounds.'' and 
        inserting ``backgrounds, including persons with disabilities.''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, including persons with 
                disabilities,'' after ``backgrounds''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and minorities'' each place the 
                term appears and inserting ``, minorities, and persons 
                with disabilities''.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3060]]

SEC. 17. UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-6.>> REFORM.

    (a) <<NOTE: Grants.>> In General.--The Director shall award grants, 
on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis, to institutions of higher 
education to expand previously implemented reforms of undergraduate 
science, mathematics, engineering, or technology education that have 
been demonstrated to have been successful in increasing the number and 
quality of students studying toward and completing associate's or 
baccalaureate degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, or 
technology.

    (b) Uses of Funds.--Activities supported by grants under this 
section may include--
            (1) expansion of successful reform efforts beyond a single 
        course or group of courses to achieve reform within an entire 
        academic unit;
            (2) expansion of successful reform efforts beyond a single 
        academic unit to other science, mathematics, engineering, or 
        technology academic units within an institution;
            (3) creation of multidisciplinary courses or programs that 
        formalize collaborations for the purpose of improved student 
        instruction and research in science, mathematics, engineering, 
        and technology;
            (4) expansion of undergraduate research opportunities beyond 
        a particular laboratory, course, or academic unit to engage 
        multiple academic units in providing multidisciplinary research 
        opportunities for undergraduate students;
            (5) expansion of innovative tutoring or mentoring programs 
        proven to enhance student recruitment or persistence to degree 
        completion in science, mathematics, engineering, or technology;
            (6) improvement of undergraduate science, mathematics, 
        engineering, and technology education for nonmajors, including 
        education majors; and
            (7) implementation of technology-driven reform efforts, 
        including the installation of technology to facilitate such 
        reform, that directly impact undergraduate science, mathematics, 
        engineering, or technology instruction or research experiences.

    (c) Selection Process.--
            (1) Applications.--An institution of higher education 
        seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application 
        to the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing 
        such information as the Director may require. The application 
        shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) a description of the proposed reform effort;
                    (B) a description of the previously implemented 
                reform effort that will serve as the basis for the 
                proposed reform effort and evidence of success of that 
                previous effort, including data on student recruitment, 
                persistence to degree completion, and academic 
                achievement;
                    (C) evidence of active participation in the proposed 
                project by individuals who were central to the success 
                of the previously implemented reform effort; and
                    (D) evidence of institutional support for, and 
                commitment to, the proposed reform effort, including a 
                description of existing or planned institutional 
                policies and practices regarding faculty hiring, 
                promotion, tenure, and teaching assignment that reward 
                faculty contributions to undergraduate education equal 
                to, or greater than, scholarly scientific research.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3061]]

            (2) Review of applications.--In evaluating applications 
        submitted under paragraph (1), the Director shall consider at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) the evidence of past success in implementing 
                undergraduate education reform and the likelihood of 
                success in undertaking the proposed expanded effort;
                    (B) the extent to which the faculty, staff, and 
                administrators of the institution are committed to 
                making the proposed institutional reform a priority of 
                the participating academic unit;
                    (C) the degree to which the proposed reform will 
                contribute to change in institutional culture and policy 
                such that a greater value is placed on faculty 
                engagement in undergraduate education, as evidenced 
                through promotion and tenure policies; and
                    (D) the likelihood that the institution will sustain 
                or expand the reform beyond the period of the grant.
            (3) Grant distribution.--The Director shall ensure, to the 
        extent practicable, that grants awarded under this section are 
        made to a variety of types of institutions of higher education.

SEC. 18. <<NOTE: Deadlines. 42 USC 1862n-7.>> REPORTS.

    (a) Grant Size and Duration.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Director shall transmit to the Committee 
on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report describing the 
impact that increasing the average grant size and duration would have on 
minority-serving institutions and on institutions located in States 
where the Foundation's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
Research (established under section 113 of the National Science 
Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1862g)) is carrying out 
activities.
    (b) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Faculty.--Not later than 3 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into an 
arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to assess gender 
differences in the careers of science and engineering faculty. This 
study shall build on the Academy's work on gender differences in the 
carriers of doctoral scientists and engineers and examine issues such as 
faculty hiring, promotion, tenure, and allocation of resources including 
laboratory space. Upon completion, the results of this study shall be 
transmitted to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
Senate.

    (c) Grant Funding.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into an agreement with 
an appropriate party to assess gender differences in the distribution of 
external Federal research and development funding. This study shall 
examine differences in amounts requested and awarded, by gender, in 
major Federal external grant programs. Upon completion, the results of 
this study shall be transmitted to the Committee on Science of the House 
of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3062]]

Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
the Senate.
    (d) Study of Broadband Network Access for Schools and Libraries.--
            (1) Report to congress.--The Director shall conduct a study 
        of the issues described in paragraph (3), and not later than 1 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act, transmit to 
        the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate a report including recommendations to 
        address those issues. Such report shall be updated annually for 
        4 additional years.
            (2) Consultation.--In preparing the reports under paragraph 
        (1), the Director shall consult with Federal agencies and 
        educational entities as the Director considers appropriate.
            (3) Issues to be addressed.--The reports shall--
                    (A) identify the availability of high-speed, large 
                bandwidth capacity access to different demographic 
                groups served by elementary schools, secondary schools, 
                and libraries in the United States;
                    (B) identify how the provision of high-speed, large 
                bandwidth capacity access to the Internet to such 
                schools and libraries can be effectively utilized within 
                each school and library;
                    (C) consider the effect that specific or regional 
                circumstances may have on the ability of such 
                institutions to acquire high-speed, large bandwidth 
                capacity access to achieve universal connectivity as an 
                effective tool in the education process; and
                    (D) include options and recommendations to address 
                the challenges and issues identified in the reports.

    (e) Minority-Serving Institution Funding.--
            (1) Annual reporting required.--The Director shall submit an 
        annual report, along with the President's annual budget request, 
        to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate on the amount of funding awarded by the 
        Foundation to minority-serving institutions, including funding 
        received as members of consortia. The report shall include 
        information on such funding to minority-serving institutions--
                    (A) expressed as a percentage of funding to all 
                institutions of higher education for each appropriations 
                account within the Foundation's budget; and
                    (B) for the preceding 10 years.
            (2) Report on ways to improve funding.--Within one year 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
        submit to the Committee on Science of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on 
        recommendations on how the Foundation can improve funding to 
        minority-serving institutions.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3063]]

SEC. 19. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-8.>> EVALUATIONS.

    (a) Education.--
            (1) In general.--The Director, through the Research, 
        Evaluation and Communication Division of the Education and Human 
        Resources Directorate of the Foundation, shall evaluate the 
        effectiveness of all undergraduate science, mathematics, 
        engineering, or technology education activities supported by the 
        Foundation in increasing the number and quality of students, 
        including individuals identified in section 33 or 34 of the 
        Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a 
        or 1885b) studying toward and completing associate's or 
        baccalaureate degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, and 
        technology. In conducting the evaluation, the Director shall 
        consider information on--
                    (A) the number of students enrolled in undergraduate 
                science, mathematics, engineering, and technology 
                programs;
                    (B) student academic achievement, including 
                quantifiable measurements of students' mastery of 
                content and skills;
                    (C) persistence to degree completion, including 
                students who transfer from science, mathematics, 
                engineering, and technology programs to programs in 
                other academic disciplines; and
                    (D) placement during the first year after degree 
                completion in post-graduate education or career 
                pathways.
            (2) Assessment benchmarks and tools.--The Director, through 
        the Research, Evaluation and Communication Division of the 
        Education and Human Resources Directorate of the Foundation, 
        shall establish a common set of assessment benchmarks and tools, 
        and shall enable every Foundation-sponsored project to 
        incorporate the use of these benchmarks and tools in their 
        project-based assessment activities.
            (3) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> Reports to congress.--Not later 
        than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
        once every 3 years thereafter, the Director shall transmit to 
        the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate a report containing the results of 
        evaluations under paragraph (1).

    (b) Awards.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Director shall annually evaluate a random sample of grants, contracts, 
or other awards made pursuant to this Act.
    (c) Dissemination.--The Director shall--
            (1) provide for the dissemination of the results of the 
        evaluations conducted pursuant to this section to the public; 
        and
            (2) provide notice to the public that such evaluations are 
        available.

SEC. 20. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1885c note.>> REPORT BY COMMITTEE ON EQUAL 
            OPPORTUNITIES IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.

    As part of the first report required by section 36(e) of the Science 
and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885c(e)) transmitted 
to Congress after the date of enactment of

[[Page 116 STAT. 3064]]

this Act, the Committee on Equal Opportunities in Science and 
Engineering shall include--
            (1) a summary of its findings over the previous 10 years;
            (2) a description of past and present policies and 
        activities of the Foundation to encourage full participation of 
        women, minorities, and persons with disabilities in science, 
        mathematics, and engineering fields, including activities in 
        support of minority-serving institutions; and
            (3) an assessment of the trends in participation in 
        Foundation activities, and an assessment of the success of 
        Foundation policies and activities, along with proposals for new 
        strategies or the broadening of existing successful strategies 
        toward facilitating the goals of that Act.

SEC. 21. ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Core Science and Mathematics Courses.--Section 3(a) of the 
Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1862i(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, and to improve the quality of their 
        core education courses in science and mathematics'' after 
        ``education in advanced-technology fields'';
            (2) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``and in core science and 
        mathematics courses'' after ``advanced-technology fields''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2) by striking ``in advanced-technology 
        fields'' and inserting ``who provide instruction in science, 
        mathematics, and advanced-technology fields''.

    (b) Articulation Partnerships.--Section 3(c)(1)(B) of the Scientific 
and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1862i(c)(1)(B)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding after clause (ii) the following new clauses:
                    ``(iii) provide students with research experiences 
                at bachelor's-degree-granting institutions participating 
                in the partnership, including stipend support for 
                students participating in summer programs; and
                    ``(iv) provide faculty mentors for students 
                participating in activities under clause (iii), 
                including summer salary support for faculty mentors.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> National Science Foundation Report.--Within 
6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
transmit a report to the Committee on Science of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate on--
            (1) efforts by the Foundation and awardees under the program 
        carried out under section 3 of the Scientific and Advanced-
        Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1862i) to disseminate 
        information about the results of projects;
            (2) the effectiveness of national centers of scientific and 
        technical education established under section 3(b) of the 
        Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
        1862i(b)) in serving as national and regional clearinghouses of 
        information and models for best practices in undergraduate 
        science, mathematics, and technology education; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 3065]]

            (3) efforts to satisfy the requirement of section 3(f)(4) of 
        the Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
        1862i(f)(4)).

SEC. 22. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n note.>> REPORT ON FOUNDATION BUDGETARY AND 
            PROGRAMMATIC EXPANSION.

    The Board shall prepare a report to address and examine the 
Foundation's budgetary and programmatic growth provided for by this 
Act. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The report shall be submitted to the Committee 
on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate within one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and shall include--
            (1) recommendations on how the increased funding should be 
        utilized;
            (2) an examination of the projected impact that the 
        budgetary increases will have on the Nation's scientific and 
        technological workforce;
            (3) a description of new or expanded programs that will 
        enable institutions of higher education to expand their 
        participation in Foundation-funded activities;
            (4) an estimate of the national scientific and technological 
        research infrastructure needed to adequately support the 
        Foundation's increased funding and additional programs; and
            (5) a description of the impact the budgetary increases 
        provided under this Act will have on the size and duration of 
        grants awarded by the Foundation.

SEC. 23. ASTRONOMY AND ASTROPHYSICS ADVISORY <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-
            9.>> COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Foundation and the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration shall jointly establish an Astronomy and 
Astrophysics Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as the 
``Advisory Committee'').
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall--
            (1) assess, and make recommendations regarding, the 
        coordination of astronomy and astrophysics programs of the 
        Foundation and the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration;
            (2) assess, and make recommendations regarding, the status 
        of the activities of the Foundation and the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration as they relate to the recommendations 
        contained in the National Research Council's 2001 report 
        entitled ``Astronomy and Astrophysics in the New Millennium'', 
        and the recommendations contained in subsequent National 
        Research Council reports of a similar nature; and
            (3) <<NOTE: Deadline. Report.>> not later than March 15 of 
        each year, transmit a report to the Director, the Administrator 
        of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the 
        Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
        Pensions of the Senate on the Advisory Committee's findings and 
        recommendations under paragraphs (1) and (2).

    (c) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 13 members, 
none of whom shall be a Federal employee, including--
            (1) 5 members selected by the Director;

[[Page 116 STAT. 3066]]

            (2) 5 members selected by the Administrator of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration; and
            (3) 3 members selected by the Director of the Office of 
        Science and Technology Policy.

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Selection Process.--Initial selections under 
subsection (c) shall be made within 3 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as 
provided in subsection (c).

    (e) Chairperson.--The Advisory Committee shall select a chairperson 
from among its members.
    (f) Coordination.--The Advisory Committee shall coordinate with the 
advisory bodies of other Federal agencies, such as the Department of 
Energy, which may engage in related research activities.
    (g) Compensation.--The members of the Advisory Committee shall serve 
without compensation, but shall receive travel expenses, including per 
diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 
of title 5, United States Code.
    (h) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall convene, in person or by 
electronic means, at least 4 times a year.
    (i) Quorum.--A majority of the members serving on the Advisory 
Committee shall constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting the 
business of the Advisory Committee.
    (j) Duration.--Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act 
shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.

SEC. 24. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862n-10.>> MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS 
            UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Director is authorized to establish a new 
program to award grants on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis to 
Hispanic-serving institutions, Alaska Native-serving institutions, 
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, and other institutions of higher 
education serving a substantial number of minority students to enhance 
the quality of undergraduate science, mathematics, and engineering 
education at such institutions and to increase the retention and 
graduation rates of students pursuing associate's or baccalaureate 
degrees in science, mathematics, engineering, or technology.
    (b) Program Components.--Grants awarded under this section shall 
support--
            (1) activities to improve courses and curriculum in science, 
        mathematics, and engineering;
            (2) faculty development;
            (3) stipends for undergraduate students participating in 
        research; and
            (4) other activities consistent with subsection (a), as 
        determined by the Director.

    (c) Program Coordination.--This program shall be coordinated with 
and in addition to the ongoing Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities Undergraduate Program and the Tribal Colleges and 
Universities Program.
    (d) Instrumentation.--Funding for instrumentation is an allowed use 
of grants awarded under this section and under the ongoing Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program and the Tribal 
Colleges and Universities Program.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3067]]

SEC. 25. <<NOTE: 42 USC 1864 note.>> STUDY ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
            FUNDING DATA DISCREPANCIES.

    (a) <<NOTE: Contracts.>> Study.--The Director, in consultation with 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the heads of 
other Federal agencies, shall enter into agreement with the National 
Academy of Sciences to conduct a comprehensive study to determine the 
source of discrepancies in Federal reports on obligations and actual 
expenditures of Federal research and development funding.

    (b) Contents.--The study shall--
            (1) examine the relevance and accuracy of reporting 
        classifications and definitions used in the reports described in 
        subsection (a);
            (2) examine whether the classifications and definitions are 
        used consistently across Federal agencies for data gathering;
            (3) examine whether and how Federal agencies use reports 
        described in subsection (a), and describe any other sources of 
        similar data used by those agencies;
            (4) recommend alternatives for modifications to the current 
        reporting process and system that would--
                    (A) accommodate emerging fields of science and 
                changing practices in the conduct of research and 
                development;
                    (B) minimize, to the extent possible, the burden 
                imposed on the reporters of these data;
                    (C) increase the consistency of application of the 
                system across the Federal agencies including the Office 
                of Management and Budget and the Foundation;
                    (D) encourage the use of new technologies to 
                increase accuracy, timeliness, and consistency of the 
                reported data between the agencies and the research 
                performers; and
                    (E) overcome systemic shortfalls; and
            (5) recommend an implementation timeline for the 
        modifications recommended under paragraph (4), and recommend 
        specific responsibilities for the program and budget offices in 
        the agencies, taking into consideration required changes to the 
        current computer systems and processes used by the agencies.

    (c) <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> Submission.--The Director shall 
submit a report on the results of the study to the Committee on Science 
of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate within one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Implementation.--Within 6 months after the 
completion of the study required by subsection (a), the Director of the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy shall submit to the Committee on 
Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a plan for implementation 
of the recommendations of the study.

SEC. 26. PLANNING <<NOTE: 42 USC 1862q note.>> GRANTS.

    The Director is authorized to accept planning proposals from 
applicants who are within .075 percentage points of the current 
eligibility level for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
Research. Such proposals shall be reviewed by the Foundation

[[Page 116 STAT. 3068]]

to determine their merit for support under the Experimental Program to 
Stimulate Competitive Research or any other appropriate program.

    Approved December 19, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4664 (S. 2817):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-488 (Comm. on Science).
SENATE REPORTS: Nos. 107-291 accompanying S. 2817 (Comm. on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pension) and 107-317 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            June 5, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 14, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendments.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 38 (2002):
            Dec. 19, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>