[107th Congress Public Law 96]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ096.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 923]]

Public Law 107-96
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and 
other activities chargeable in whole or in part against revenues of said 
 District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 21, 2001 -  [H.R. 2944]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2002.>>  assembled, That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the District of Columbia for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2002, and for other purposes, namely:

                              FEDERAL FUNDS

              Federal Payment for Resident Tuition Support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered by 
the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$17,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education: Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government shall establish a dedicated account for 
the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal 
funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent 
appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and 
any interest earned in this or any fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the account shall be under the control of the District of Columbia Chief 
Financial Officer who shall use those funds solely for the purposes of 
carrying out the Resident Tuition Support Program: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Resident Tuition Support Program Office and 
the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a quarterly 
financial report to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
House of Representatives for these funds showing, by object class, the 
expenditures made and the purpose therefor: Provided further, That not 
more than seven percent of the total amount appropriated for this 
program may be used for administrative expenses.

[[Page 115 STAT. 924]]

         Federal Payment for Incentives for Adoption of Children

    The paragraph under the heading ``Federal Payment for Incentives for 
Adoption of Children'' in Public Law 106-113, approved November 29, 1999 
(113 Stat. 1501), is amended to read as follows: ``For a Federal payment 
to the District of Columbia to create incentives to promote the adoption 
of children in the District of Columbia foster care system, $5,000,000: 
Provided, That such funds shall remain available until September 30, 
2003, and shall be used to carry out all of the provisions of title 38 
of the Fiscal Year 2001 Budget Support Act of 2000, effective October 
19, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-172), as amended, except for section 3808: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Scholarship.>>  $1,000,000 of said amount 
shall be used for the establishment of a scholarship fund for District 
of Columbia children of adoptive families, and District of Columbia 
children without parents due to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack 
to be used for post high school education and training.''.

Federal Payment to the Capitol City Career Development and Job Training 
                               Partnership

    For a Federal Payment to the Capitol City Career Development and Job 
Training Partnership, $500,000.

              Federal Payment to the Capitol Education Fund

    For a Federal payment to the Capitol Education Fund, $500,000.

Federal Payment to the Metropolitan Kappa Youth Development Foundation, 
                                  Inc.

    For a Federal payment to the Metropolitan Kappa Youth Development 
Foundation, Inc., $450,000.

  Federal Payment to the Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department

    For a Federal payment to the Fire and Emergency Medical Services 
Department, $500,000 for dry-docking of the Fire Boat.

              Federal Payment to the Chief Medical Examiner

    For a Federal payment to the Chief Medical Examiner, $585,000 for 
reduction in the backlog of autopsies, case reports and for the purchase 
of toxicology and histology equipment.

              Federal Payment to the Youth Life Foundation

    For a Federal payment to the Youth Life Foundation, $250,000 for 
technical assistance, operational expenses, and establishment of a 
National Training Institute.

                   Federal Payment to Food and Friends

    For a Federal payment to Food and Friends, $2,000,000 for their 
Capital Campaign.

[[Page 115 STAT. 925]]

                Federal Payment to the City Administrator

    For a Federal payment to the City Administrator, $300,000 for the 
Criminal Justice Coordinating Council for the District of Columbia.

               Federal Payment to Southeastern University

    For a Federal payment to Southeastern University, $500,000 for a 
public/private partnership with the District of Columbia Public Schools 
at the McKinley Technology High School campus.

       Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Public Schools

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Public Schools, 
$2,500,000, of which $2,000,000 shall be to implement the Voyager 
Expanded Learning literacy program in kindergarten and first grade 
classrooms in the District of Columbia Public Schools; $250,000 shall be 
for the Failure Free Reading literacy program for non-readers and 
special education students; and $250,000 for Lightspan, Inc. to 
implement the eduTest.com program in the District of Columbia Public 
Schools.

 Federal Payments for District of Columbia and Federal Law Enforcement 
                Mobile Wireless Interoperability Project

    For Federal payments in support of the District of Columbia and the 
Federal law enforcement Mobile Wireless Interoperability Project, 
$1,400,000, of which $400,000 shall be for a payment to the District of 
Columbia Office of the Chief Technology Officer, $333,334 shall be for a 
payment to the United States Secret Service, $333,333 shall be for a 
payment to the United States Capitol Police, and $333,333 shall be for a 
payment to the United States Park Police: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  each agency shall participate in the 
preparation of a joint report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives to be submitted no later than 
March 30, 2002 on the allocation of these resources and a description of 
each agencies' resource commitment to this project for fiscal year 2003.

    Federal Payment for Emergency Planning and Security Costs in the 
                          District of Columbia

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for emergency 
planning and security costs and to reimburse the District for certain 
security expenses related to the presence of the Federal Government in 
the District of Columbia, $16,058,000: Provided, That $12,652,000 shall 
be made available immediately to the District of Columbia Emergency 
Management Agency for planning, training, and personnel costs required 
for development and implementation of the emergency operations plan for 
the District of Columbia, to be submitted to the appropriate Federal 
agencies: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>>  a 
detailed report of actual and estimated expenses incurred shall be 
provided to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives no later than June 15, 2002: Provided further, That 
$3,406,000 of such amount shall be made available immediately for 
reimbursement of fiscal year 2001 expenses incurred by the District of 
Columbia

[[Page 115 STAT. 926]]

for equipment purchased for providing security for the planned meetings 
in September 2001 of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund 
in the District of Columbia: Provided further, That the Mayor and the 
Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia shall develop, in 
consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, 
the United States Secret Service, the United States Capitol Police, the 
United States Park Police, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit 
Authority, regional transportation authorities, the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, the Governor of the State of Maryland and the 
Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the county executives of 
contiguous counties of the region and the respective State and local law 
enforcement entities in the region, an integrated emergency operations 
plan for the District of Columbia in cases of national security events, 
including terrorist threats, protests, or other unanticipated events: 
Provided further, That such plan shall include a response to attacks or 
threats of attacks using biological or chemical agents: Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the city shall submit this plan to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives no later than January 2, 2002: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
Columbia shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations on the use of the funds under this heading, beginning not 
later than April 2, 2002.

   Federal Payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District of 
                                Columbia

    For a Federal payment to the Chief Financial Officer of the District 
of Columbia, $8,300,000, of which $2,250,000 shall be for payment for a 
pilot project to demonstrate the ``Active Cap'' river cleanup technology 
on the Anacostia River; $500,000 shall be for payment to the Washington, 
D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission which, in coordination with the 
U.S. Soccer Foundation, shall use the funds for environmental and 
infrastructure costs at Kenilworth Park in the creation of the 
Kenilworth Regional Sports Complex; $600,000 shall be for payment to the 
One Economy Corporation, a non-profit organization, to increase Internet 
access to low-income homes in the District of Columbia; $500,000 shall 
be for payment to the Langston Project for the 21st Century, a community 
revitalization project to improve physical education and training 
facilities; $1,000,000 shall be for payment to the Green Door Program, 
for capital improvements at a community mental health clinic; $500,000 
shall be for payment to the Historical Society of Washington, for 
capital improvements to the new City Museum; $200,000 for a payment to 
Teach for America DC, for teacher development; $350,000 for payment to 
the District of Columbia Safe Kids Coalition, to promote child passenger 
safety through the Child Occupant Protection Initiative; $50,000 for 
payment for renovations at Eastern Market; $1,000,000 shall be for 
payment to the Excel Institute Adult Education Program to be used by the 
Institute for construction and to acquire construction services provided 
by the General Services Administration on a reimbursable basis; $300,000 
shall be for payment to the Woodlawn Cemetery for restoration of the 
Cemetery; $250,000 shall be for payment to the Real World Schools 
concerning 21st Century reform models for secondary education and the 
use of technology to support

[[Page 115 STAT. 927]]

learning in the District of Columbia; $300,000 shall be for payment to a 
mentoring program and for hotline services; $250,000 shall be for 
payment to a youth development program with a character building 
curriculum; and $250,000 shall be for payment to a basic values training 
program.

    Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee 
                               Operations

    For salaries and expenses of the District of Columbia Corrections 
Trustee, $30,200,000 for the administration and operation of 
correctional facilities and for the administrative operating costs of 
the Office of the Corrections Trustee, as authorized by section 11202 of 
the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act 
of 1997 (Public Law 105-33; 111 Stat. 712) of which $1,000,000 is to 
fund an initiative to improve case processing in the District of 
Columbia criminal justice system, $500,000 to remain available until 
September 30, 2003 for building renovations or space acquisition 
required to accommodate functions transferred from the Lorton 
Correctional Complex, and $1,500,000 to remain available until September 
30, 2003, to be transferred to the appropriate agency for the closing of 
the sewage treatment plant and the removal of underground storage tanks 
at the Lorton Correctional Complex: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated in this Act for the District 
of Columbia Corrections Trustee shall be apportioned quarterly by the 
Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same 
manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal 
agencies.

           Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$112,180,000, to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $8,003,000, of which not to exceed $1,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the District of 
Columbia Superior Court, $66,091,000, of which not to exceed $1,500 is 
for official reception and representation expenses; for the District of 
Columbia Court System, $31,594,000, of which not to exceed $1,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; and $6,492,000 for 
capital improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities: 
Provided, That <<NOTE: Contracts. Reports.>>  notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned 
quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and 
expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and 
expenses of other Federal agencies, with payroll and financial services 
to be provided on a contractual basis with the General Services 
Administration (GSA), said services to include the preparation of 
monthly financial reports, copies of which shall be submitted directly 
by GSA to the President and to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Government Reform of the 
House of Representatives: Provided further, That funds made available 
for capital improvements may remain available until September 30, 2003.

[[Page 115 STAT. 928]]

                        Administrative Provisions

    Section 11-1722(a), District of Columbia Code, is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``, subject to the supervision of the 
Executive Officer''.
    Section 11-1723(a)(3), District of Columbia Code, is amended by 
striking ``and the internal auditing of the accounts of the courts''.

                     crime victims compensation fund

    (a) Treatment of Unobligated Balances.--Section 16(d) of the Victims 
of Violent Crime Compensation Act of 1996 (sec. 4-515(d), D.C. Official 
Code), as amended by section 403 of the Miscellaneous Appropriations 
Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2001), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``in excess of $250,000'';
            (2) by striking ``and approved by'' and inserting ``which is 
        submitted to''; and
            (3) by striking ``and not less than 80 percent'' and all 
        that follows and inserting the following: ``except that under 
        such plan--
            ``(1) 50 percent of such balance shall be used for direct 
        compensation payments to crime victims through the Fund under 
        this section and in accordance with this Act; and
            ``(2) 50 percent of such balance shall be used for outreach 
        activities designed to increase the number of crime victims who 
        apply for such direct compensation payments.''.

    (b) Limit on Use of Amounts for Administrative Expenses.--Section 
16(e) of such Act (sec. 4-515(e), D.C. Official Code), as amended by 
section 202(d) of the Fiscal Year 2001 Budget Support Act of 2000 (D.C. 
Law 13-172), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) All compensation payments and attorneys' fees awarded under 
this Act shall be paid from, and subject to, the availability of monies 
in the Fund. Not more than 5 percent of the total amount of monies in 
the Fund may be used to pay administrative costs necessary to carry out 
this Act.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of section 403 of the 
Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001.

                payments for representation of indigents

    (a) Services of Counsel.--
            (1) In general.--Section 11-2604, District of Columbia Code, 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``$50'' and 
                inserting ``$65''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``$1300'' each place it 
                      appears and inserting ``$1900''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``$2450'' each place it 
                      appears and inserting ``$3600''.
            (2) Neglect and parental rights termination proceedings.--
        Section 16-2326.01(b), District of Columbia Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``$1,100'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``$1,600'';

[[Page 115 STAT. 929]]

                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$1,500'' and 
                inserting ``$2,200''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``$750'' and 
                inserting ``$1,100''.

    (b) Services of Investigators, Experts, and Others.--Section 11-
2605, District of Columbia Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(b) Subject to the applicable limits described in subsections (c) 
and (d), an individual providing services under this section shall be 
compensated at a fixed rate of $25 per hour, and shall be reimbursed for 
expenses reasonably incurred.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  amendments made 
by this provision shall apply with respect to cases and proceedings 
initiated on or after March 1, 2002.

    Section 11-2604, District of Columbia Code, is amended:
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``50'' and inserting 
        ``75''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``1300'' each time it appears and 
                inserting ``1900''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2450'' each time it appears and 
                inserting ``3600''.

                  Federal Payment for Family Court Act

    For carrying out the District of Columbia Family Court Act of 2001, 
$24,016,000, of which $23,316,000 shall be for the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia and $700,000 shall be for the Mayor of the District 
of Columbia of which $200,000 shall be for completion of a plan by the 
Mayor on integrating the computer systems of the District of Columbia 
government with the Family Court of the Superior Court of the District 
of Columbia: Provided, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the Mayor shall submit 
a plan to the President and the Congress within 6 months of enactment of 
that Act, so that social services and other related services to 
individuals and families serviced by the Family Court of the Superior 
Court and agencies of the District of Columbia government (including the 
District of Columbia Public Schools, the District of Columbia Housing 
Authority, the Child and Family Services Agency, the Office of the 
Corporation Counsel, the Metropolitan Police Department, the Department 
of Health, and other offices determined by the Mayor) will be able to 
access and share information on the individuals and families served by 
the Family Court: Provided further, That $500,000 of such amount 
provided to the Mayor shall be for the Child and Family Services Agency 
to be used for social workers to implement Family Court reform: Provided 
further, That the chief judge of the Superior Court shall submit the 
transition plan for the Family Court of the Superior Court as required 
under the District of Columbia Family Court Act of 2001 to the 
Comptroller General (in addition to any other requirements under such 
section): Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the Comptroller 
General shall prepare and submit to the President and Congress an 
analysis of the contents and effectiveness of the plan, including an 
analysis of whether the plan contains all of the information required 
under

[[Page 115 STAT. 930]]

such section within 30 calendar days after the submission of the plan by 
the Superior Court: Provided further, That the funds provided under this 
heading to the Superior Court shall not be made available until the 
expiration of the 30-day period (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, legal 
public holidays, and any day on which neither House of Congress is in 
session because of an adjournment sine die, a recess of more that 3 
days, or an adjournment of more than 3 days) which begins on the date 
the Comptroller General submits such analysis to the President and 
Congress: Provided further, That the Mayor shall prepare and submit to 
the President, Congress, and the Comptroller General a plan for the use 
of the funds provided to the Mayor under this heading, consistent with 
the requirements of the District of Columbia Family Court Act of 2001, 
including the requirement to integrate the computer systems of the 
District government with the computer systems of the Superior Court: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the Comptroller General 
shall prepare and submit to the President and Congress an analysis of 
the contents and effectiveness of the plan within 30 calendar days after 
the submission of the plan by the Mayor: Provided further, That the 
funds provided under this heading to the Mayor shall not be made 
available until the expiration of the 30-day period (excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays, legal public holidays, and any day on which neither 
House of Congress is in session because of an adjournment sine die, a 
recess of more than 3 days, or an adjournment of more than 3 days) which 
begins on the date the Comptroller General submits such plan to the 
President and Congress.

            Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Division of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code, and 
payments for counsel authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Code 
(relating to representation provided under the District of Columbia 
Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act 
of 1986), $34,311,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That the funds provided in this Act under the heading ``Federal Payment 
to the District of Columbia Courts'' (other than the $6,492,000 provided 
under such heading for capital improvements for District of Columbia 
courthouse facilities) may also be used for payments under this heading: 
Provided further, That in addition to the funds provided under this 
heading, the Joint Committee on Judicial Administration in the District 
of Columbia shall use funds provided in this Act under the heading 
``Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Courts'' (other than the 
$6,492,000 provided under such heading for capital improvements for 
District of Columbia courthouse facilities), to make payments described 
under this heading for obligations incurred during any fiscal year: 
Provided further, That of the amounts provided in previous fiscal years 
for payments described under this heading which remain unobligated as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act, $4,685,500 shall be used by the 
Joint Committee on Judicial Administration for design and construction 
expenses of the courthouse at 451

[[Page 115 STAT. 931]]

Indiana Avenue NW: Provided further, That of the remainder of such 
amounts, such sums as may be necessary shall be applied toward the 
portion of the amount provided under this heading which is attributable 
to increases in the maximum amounts which may be paid for representation 
services in the District of Columbia courts: Provided further, That 
funds provided under this heading shall be administered by the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Contracts. Reports.>>  notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, this appropriation shall be apportioned 
quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and 
expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for expenses of other 
Federal agencies, with payroll and financial services to be provided on 
a contractual basis with the General Services Administration (GSA), said 
services to include the preparation of monthly financial reports, copies 
of which shall be submitted directly by GSA to the President and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives, 
the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee 
on Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

 Federal Payment to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency 
                      for the District of Columbia

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (Public Law 
105-33; 111 Stat. 712), $147,300,000, of which $13,015,000 shall remain 
available until expended for construction expenses at new or existing 
facilities, and of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official receptions 
related to offender and defendant support programs; of which $94,112,000 
shall be for necessary expenses of Community Supervision and Sex 
Offender Registration, to include expenses relating to supervision of 
adults subject to protection orders or provision of services for or 
related to such persons; $20,829,000 shall be transferred to the Public 
Defender Service; and $32,359,000 shall be available to the Pretrial 
Services Agency: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, all amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by 
the Office of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the 
same manner as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other 
Federal agencies: Provided further, That notwithstanding chapter 12 of 
title 40, United States Code, the Director may acquire by purchase, 
lease, condemnation, or donation, and renovate as necessary, Building 
Number 17, 1900 Massachusetts Avenue, Southeast, Washington, District of 
Columbia, or such other site as the Director of the Court Services and 
Offender Supervision Agency may determine as appropriate to house or 
supervise offenders and defendants, with funds made available by this 
Act: Provided further, That the Director is authorized to accept and use 
gifts in the form of in-kind contributions of space and hospitality to 
support offender and defendant programs, and equipment and vocational 
training services to educate and train offenders and defendants: 
Provided further, That <<NOTE: Records. Public information.>>  the 
Director shall keep accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and 
use of any gift or

[[Page 115 STAT. 932]]

donation under the previous proviso, and shall make such records 
available for audit and public inspection.

        Federal Payment to the Children's National Medical Center

    For a Federal payment to the Children's National Medical Center in 
the District of Columbia, $5,500,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be for 
capital and equipment improvements, and $500,000 shall be used for the 
network of satellite pediatric health clinics for children and families 
in underserved neighborhoods and communities in the District of 
Columbia.

           St. Coletta of Greater Washington Expansion Project

    For a Federal contribution to St. Coletta of Greater Washington, 
Inc., for costs associated with the establishment of a day program and 
comprehensive case management services for mentally retarded and 
multiple-handicapped adolescents and adults in the District of Columbia, 
including property acquisition and construction, $2,000,000.

             Federal Payment to Faith and Politics Institute

    For a Federal payment to the Faith and Politics Institute, $50,000, 
for grass roots-based racial sensitivity programs in the District of 
Columbia.

     Federal Payment to the Thurgood Marshall Academy Charter School

    For a Federal payment to the Thurgood Marshall Academy Charter 
School, $1,000,000 to be used to acquire and renovate an educational 
facility in Anacostia.

     Federal Payment to the George Washington University Center for 
                   Excellence in Municipal Management

    For a Federal payment to the George Washington University Center for 
Excellence in Municipal Management, $250,000 to increase the enrollment 
of managers from the District of Columbia government.

                    Court Appointed Special Advocates

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Court Appointed 
Special Advocates Unit, $250,000 to be used to expand its work in the 
Family Court of the District of Columbia Superior Court.

                        Administrative Provision

    Of the Federal funds made available in the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2001, Public Law 106-522 for the Metropolitan Police 
Department (114 Stat. 2441), $100,000 for the police mini-station shall 
remain available for the purposes intended until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That the $1,000,000 made available in such Act for the 
Washington Interfaith Network (114 Stat. 2444) shall remain available 
for the purposes intended until December 31, 2002: Provided further, 
That $3,450,000 made available in such

[[Page 115 STAT. 933]]

Act for Brownfield Remediation (114 Stat. 2445), shall remain available 
until expended.

                       DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS

                           OPERATING EXPENSES

                          Division of Expenses

    The following amounts are appropriated for the District of Columbia 
for the current fiscal year out of the general fund of the District of 
Columbia, except as otherwise specifically provided: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in 
section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act and section 119 
of this Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50a), the 
total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for the 
District of Columbia for fiscal year 2002 under this heading shall not 
exceed the lesser of the sum of the total revenues of the District of 
Columbia for such fiscal year or $6,048,160,000 (of which $124,163,000 
shall be from intra-District funds and $3,574,493,000 shall be from 
local funds): Provided further, That this amount may be increased by 
proceeds of one-time transactions, which are expended for emergency or 
unanticipated operating or capital needs: Provided further, That such 
increases shall be approved by enactment of local District law and shall 
comply with all reserve requirements contained in the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act as amended by this Act: Provided further, That 
the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia shall take such 
steps as are necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets 
these requirements, including the apportioning by the Chief Financial 
Officer of the appropriations and funds made available to the District 
during fiscal year 2002, except that the Chief Financial Officer may not 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or 
other obligations issued for capital projects.

                   Governmental Direction and Support

    Governmental direction and support, $286,138,000 (including 
$229,421,000 from local funds, $38,809,000 from Federal funds, and 
$17,908,000 from other funds): Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 for 
the Mayor, $2,500 for the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, and $2,500 for the City Administrator shall be available from 
this appropriation for official purposes: Provided further, That any 
program fees collected from the issuance of debt shall be available for 
the payment of expenses of the debt management program of the District 
of Columbia: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal sources 
shall be used to support the operations or activities of the Statehood 
Commission and Statehood Compact Commission: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia shall identify the sources of funding for Admission 
to Statehood from its own locally-generated revenues: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, or Mayor's Order 86-45, 
issued March 18, 1986, the Office of the Chief Technology Officer's 
delegated small purchase authority shall be $500,000: Provided further, 
That the District of Columbia government may not require the Office of 
the Chief Technology Officer to submit to any other procurement review 
process, or to obtain the approval

[[Page 115 STAT. 934]]

of or be restricted in any manner by any official or employee of the 
District of Columbia government, for purchases that do not exceed 
$500,000: Provided further, That not less than $353,000 shall be 
available to the Office of the Corporation Counsel to support increases 
in the Attorney Retention Allowance: Provided further, That not less 
than $50,000 shall be available to support a mediation services program 
within the Office of the Corporation Counsel: Provided further, That not 
less than $50,000 shall be available to support a TANF Unit within the 
Child Support Enforcement Division of the Office of the Corporation 
Counsel: Provided further, That of all funds in the District of Columbia 
Antitrust Fund established pursuant to section 2 of the District of 
Columbia Antitrust Act of 1980 (D.C. Law 3-169; D.C. Official Code, sec. 
28-4516) an amount not to exceed $386,000, of all funds in the Antifraud 
Fund established pursuant to section 820 of the District of Columbia 
Procurement Practices Act of 1985, effective February 21, 1986 (D.C. Law 
6-85; D.C. Official Code, sec. 2-308.20) an amount not to exceed 
$10,000, and of all funds in the District of Columbia Consumer 
Protection Fund established pursuant to section 1402 of the District of 
Columbia Budget Support Act for fiscal year 2001 (D.C. Law 13-172; D.C. 
Official Code, sec. 28-3911) an amount not to exceed $233,000, are 
hereby made available for the use of the Office of the Corporation 
Counsel of the District of Columbia until September 30, 2003, in 
accordance with the statutes that established these funds.

                   Economic Development and Regulation

    Economic development and regulation, $230,878,000 (including 
$60,786,000 from local funds, $96,199,000 from Federal funds, and 
$73,893,000 from other funds), of which $15,000,000 collected by the 
District of Columbia in the form of BID tax revenue shall be paid to the 
respective BIDs pursuant to the Business Improvement Districts Act of 
1996 (D.C. Law 11-134; D.C. Official Code, sec. 2-1215.01 et seq.), and 
the Business Improvement Districts Amendment Act of 1997 (D.C. Law 12-
26; D.C. Official Code, sec. 2-1215.15 et seq.): Provided, That such 
funds are available for acquiring services provided by the General 
Services Administration: Provided further, That Business Improvement 
Districts shall be exempt from taxes levied by the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs 
shall use $50,000 of the receipts from the net proceeds from the 
contractor that handles the District's occupational and professional 
licensing to fund additional staff and equipment for the Rental Housing 
Administration: Provided further, That the Department of Consumer and 
Regulatory Affairs shall transfer up to $293,000 from other funds 
resulting from the lapse of personnel vacancies, caused by transferring 
DCRA employees into NSO positions without filling the resultant 
vacancies, into the revolving 5-513 fund to be used to implement the 
provisions in D.C. Law 13-281, the Abatement and Condemnation of 
Nuisance Properties Omnibus Amendment Act of 2000, pertaining to the 
prevention of the demolition by neglect of historic properties: Provided 
further, That the fees established and collected pursuant to Law 13-281 
shall be identified, and an accounting provided, to the District of 
Columbia Council's Committee on Consumer and Regulatory Affairs: 
Provided further, That 18 percent of the annual total amount in the 5-

[[Page 115 STAT. 935]]

513 fund, up to $500,000, deposited into the 5-513 fund on an annual 
basis, be used to implement section 102 and other related sections of 
D.C. Law 13-281.

                        Public Safety and Justice

    Public safety and justice, $633,853,000 (including $594,803,000 from 
local funds, $8,298,000 from Federal funds, and $30,752,000 from other 
funds): Provided, That not to exceed $500,000 shall be available from 
this appropriation for the Chief of Police for the prevention and 
detection of crime: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
law, section 3703 of title XXXVII of the Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Support 
Act of 2001 (D.C. Bill 14-144), adopted by the Council of the District 
of Columbia, is enacted into law: Provided further, That the Mayor shall 
reimburse the District of Columbia National Guard for expenses incurred 
in connection with services that are performed in emergencies by the 
National Guard in a militia status and are requested by the Mayor, in 
amounts that shall be jointly determined and certified as due and 
payable for these services by the Mayor and the Commanding General of 
the District of Columbia National Guard: Provided further, That such 
sums as may be necessary for reimbursement to the District of Columbia 
National Guard under the preceding proviso shall be available from this 
appropriation, and the availability of the sums shall be deemed as 
constituting payment in advance for emergency services involved: 
Provided further, That no less than $173,000,000 shall be available to 
the Metropolitan Police Department for salary in support of 3,800 sworn 
officers: Provided further, That no less than $100,000 shall be 
available in the Department of Corrections budget to support the 
Corrections Information Council: Provided further, That not less than 
$296,000 shall be available to support the Child Fatality Review 
Committee.

                         Public Education System

    Public education system, including the development of national 
defense education programs, $1,108,665,000 (including $896,994,000 from 
local funds, $185,044,000 from Federal funds, and $26,627,000 from other 
funds), to be allocated as follows: $813,042,000 (including $661,124,000 
from local funds, $144,630,000 from Federal funds, and $7,288,000 from 
other funds), for the public schools of the District of Columbia; 
$47,370,000 (including $19,911,000 from local funds, $26,917,000 from 
Federal funds, $542,000 from other funds), for the State Education 
Office, $17,000,000 from local funds, previously appropriated in this 
Act as a Federal payment, and such sums as may be derived from interest 
earned on funds contained in the dedicated account established by the 
Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia, for resident 
tuition support at public and private institutions of higher learning 
for eligible District of Columbia residents; and $142,257,000 from local 
funds for public charter schools: Provided, That <<NOTE: Charter 
schools. Deadline.>>  there shall be quarterly disbursement of funds to 
the District of Columbia public charter schools, with the first payment 
to occur within 15 days of the beginning of each fiscal year: Provided 
further, That if the entirety of this allocation has not been provided 
as payments to any public charter school currently in operation through 
the per pupil funding formula, the funds shall be available for public 
education in accordance with the School Reform Act of 1995 (Public Law 
104-134; D.C.

[[Page 115 STAT. 936]]

Official Code, sec. 38-1804.03(b)(e)(A)): Provided further, That 
$480,000 of this amount shall be available to the District of Columbia 
Public Charter School Board for administrative costs: Provided further, 
That section 161 of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001 
(Public Law 106-522; 114 Stat. 2483, 2484), is <<NOTE: 20 USC 1155.>>  
amended, as if included in the Act--
            (1) by striking ``not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 
        2001,'';
            (2) by inserting ``revolving'' after ``enhancement'' in the 
        second sentence of paragraph (2)(B), in the heading of paragraph 
        (3), and in paragraph (3)(A); and
            (3) by striking ``10 percent'' and inserting ``5 percent'':

Provided further, That the cap on administrative costs as amended by 
section 161 of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public 
Law 106-522; 114 Stat. 2484), is amended by striking ``10 percent'' and 
inserting ``5 percent'': Provided further, That $76,542,000 (including 
$45,912,000 from local funds, $12,539,000 from Federal funds, and 
$18,091,000 from other funds) shall be available for the University of 
the District of Columbia: Provided further, That $400,000 shall be 
available for Enhancing and Actualizing Internationalism and 
Multiculturalism in the Academic Programs of the University of the 
District of Columbia: Provided further, That <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  
$1,277,500 shall be paid by the Chief Financial Officer to the Excel 
Institute for operations as follows: $277,500 to cover debt owed by the 
University of the District of Columbia for services rendered shall be 
paid to the Excel Institute within 15 days of enactment of this Act; and 
$1,000,000 for fiscal year 2002 shall be paid to the Excel Institute in 
equal quarterly installments within 15 days of the beginning of each 
quarter: Provided further, That not less than $200,000 for Adult 
Education: Provided further, That $27,256,000 (including $26,030,000 
from local funds, $560,000 from Federal funds and $666,000 other funds) 
for the Public Library: Provided further, That the $1,007,000 
enhancement shall be allocated such that $500,000 is used for facilities 
improvements for 8 of the 26 library branches, $235,000 for 13 FTEs for 
the continuation of the Homework Helpers Program, $143,000 for 2 FTEs in 
the expansion of the Reach Out And Read (ROAR) service to licensed day 
care homes, and $129,000 for 3 FTEs to expand literacy support into 
branch libraries: Provided further, That $2,198,000 (including 
$1,760,000 from local funds, $398,000 from Federal funds and $40,000 
from other funds) shall be available for the Commission on the Arts and 
Humanities: Provided further, That the public schools of the District of 
Columbia are authorized to accept not to exceed 31 motor vehicles for 
exclusive use in the driver education program: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $2,500 for the Superintendent of Schools, $2,500 for the 
President of the University of the District of Columbia, and $2,000 for 
the Public Librarian shall be available from this appropriation for 
official purposes: Provided further, That none of the funds contained in 
this Act may be made available to pay the salaries of any District of 
Columbia Public School teacher, principal, administrator, official, or 
employee who knowingly provides false enrollment or attendance 
information under article II, section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
provide for compulsory school attendance, for the taking of a school 
census in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes'', approved 
February 4, 1925 (D.C. Official Code, sec. 38-

[[Page 115 STAT. 937]]

201 et seq.): Provided further, That this appropriation shall not be 
available to subsidize the education of any nonresident of the District 
of Columbia at any District of Columbia public elementary and secondary 
school during fiscal year 2002 unless the nonresident pays tuition to 
the District of Columbia at a rate that covers 100 percent of the costs 
incurred by the District of Columbia which are attributable to the 
education of the nonresident (as established by the Superintendent of 
the District of Columbia Public Schools): Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall not be available to subsidize the education of 
nonresidents of the District of Columbia at the University of the 
District of Columbia, unless the Board of Trustees of the University of 
the District of Columbia adopts, for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2002, a tuition rate schedule that will establish the tuition rate 
for nonresident students at a level no lower than the nonresident 
tuition rate charged at comparable public institutions of higher 
education in the metropolitan area: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, or regulation, the 
evaluation process and instruments for evaluating District of Columbia 
Public School employees shall be a non-negotiable item for collective 
bargaining purposes: Provided further, That the District of Columbia 
Public Schools shall spend $1,200,000 to implement D.C. Teaching Fellows 
Program in the District's public schools: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding the amounts otherwise provided under this heading or any 
other provision of law, there shall be appropriated to the District of 
Columbia public charter schools on July 1, 2002, an amount equal to 25 
percent of the total amount provided for payments to public charter 
schools in the proposed budget of the District of Columbia for fiscal 
year 2003 (as submitted to Congress), and the amount of such payment 
shall be chargeable against the final amount provided for such payments 
under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2003: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding the amounts otherwise provided under this 
heading or any other provision of law, there shall be appropriated to 
the District of Columbia Public Schools on July 1, 2002, an amount equal 
to 10 percent of the total amount provided for the District of Columbia 
Public Schools in the proposed budget of the District of Columbia for 
fiscal year 2003 (as submitted to Congress), and the amount of such 
payment shall be chargeable against the final amount provided for the 
District of Columbia Public Schools under the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2003: Provided further, That the first paragraph 
under the heading ``Public Education System'' in Public Law 107-20, 
approved July 24, 2001, is <<NOTE: Ante, p. 172.>>  amended to read as 
follows: ``For an additional amount for `Public Education System', 
$1,000,000 from local funds to remain available until September 30, 
2002, for the State Education Office for a census-type audit of the 
student enrollment of each District of Columbia Public School and of 
each public charter school and $12,000,000 from local funds for the 
District of Columbia Public Schools to conduct the 2001 summer school 
session.''.

                         Human Support Services

                      (including transfer of funds)

    Human support services, $1,803,923,000 (including $711,072,000 from 
local funds, $1,075,960,000 from Federal funds, and $16,891,000 from 
other funds): Provided, That $27,986,000

[[Page 115 STAT. 938]]

of this appropriation, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available solely for District of Columbia employees' disability 
compensation: Provided further, That $90,000,000 transferred pursuant to 
the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-522) 
to the Public Benefit Corporation for restructuring shall be made 
available to the Department of Health's Health Care Safety Net 
Administration for the purpose of restructuring the delivery of health 
services in the District of Columbia and shall remain available until 
expended for obligation during fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That 
no less than $7,500,000 of this appropriation, to remain available until 
expended, shall be deposited in the Addiction Recovery Fund established 
pursuant to section 5 of the Choice in Drug Treatment Act of 2000, 
effective July 8, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-146; D.C. Official Code, sec. 7-
3004), and used solely for the purpose of the Drug Treatment Choice 
Program established pursuant to section 4 of the Choice in Drug 
Treatment Act of 2000 (D.C. Official Code, sec. 7-3003): Provided 
further, That no less than $500,000 of the $7,500,000 appropriated for 
the Addiction Recovery Fund shall be used solely to pay treatment 
providers who provide substance abuse treatment to TANF recipients under 
the Drug Treatment Choice Program: Provided further, That no less than 
$2,000,000 of this appropriation shall be used solely to establish, by 
contract, a 2-year pilot substance abuse program for youth ages 16 
through 21 years of age: Provided further, That no less than $60,000 be 
available for a D.C. Energy Office Matching Grant: Provided further, 
That no less than $2,150,000 be available for a pilot Interim Disability 
Assistance program pursuant to title L of the Fiscal Year 2002 Budget 
Support Act (D.C. Bill 14-144).

                              Public Works

    Public works, including rental of one passenger-carrying vehicle for 
use by the Mayor and three passenger-carrying vehicles for use by the 
Council of the District of Columbia and leasing of passenger-carrying 
vehicles, $300,151,000 (including $286,334,000 from local funds, 
$4,392,000 from Federal funds, and $9,425,000 from other funds): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available for collecting 
ashes or miscellaneous refuse from hotels and places of business: 
Provided further, That no less than $650,000 be available for a 
mechanical alley sweeping program: Provided further, That no less than 
$6,400,000 be available for residential parking enforcement: Provided 
further, That no less than $100,000 be available for a General Counsel 
to the Department of Public Works: Provided further, That no less than 
$3,600,000 be available for ticket processing: Provided further, That no 
less than 14 residential parking control aides or 10 percent of the 
residential parking control force be available for night time 
enforcement of out-of-state tags: Provided further, That of the total of 
3,000 additional parking meters being installed in commercial districts 
and in commercial loading zones none be installed at loading zones, or 
entrances at apartment buildings and none be installed in residential 
neighborhoods: Provided further, That no less than $262,000 be available 
for taxicab enforcement activities: Provided further, That no less than 
$241,000 be available for a taxicab driver security revolving fund: 
Provided further, That no less than $30,084,000

[[Page 115 STAT. 939]]

in local appropriations be available to the Division of Transportation, 
within the Department of Public Works: Provided further, That no less 
than $12,000,000 in rights-of-way fees shall be available for the Local 
Roads, Construction and Maintenance Fund: Provided further, That funding 
for a proposed separate Department of Transportation is contingent upon 
Council approval of a reorganization plan: Provided further, That no 
less than $313,000 be available for handicapped parking enforcement: 
Provided further, That no less than $190,000 be available for the 
Ignition Interlock Device Program: Provided further, That no less than 
$473,000 be available for the Motor Vehicle Insurance Enforcement 
Program: Provided further, That $11,000,000 of this appropriation shall 
be available for transfer to the Highway Trust Fund's Local Roads, 
Construction and Maintenance Fund, upon certification by the Chief 
Financial Officer that funds are available from the 2001 budgeted 
reserve or where the Chief Financial Officer certifies that additional 
local revenues are available: Provided further, That $1,550,000 made 
available under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001 
(Public Law 106-522) for taxicab driver security enhancements in the 
District of Columbia shall remain available until September 30, 2002.

                          Receivership Programs

    For all agencies of the District of Columbia government under court 
ordered receivership, $403,868,000 (including $250,515,000 from local 
funds, $134,339,000 from Federal funds, and $19,014,000 from other 
funds).

                          Workforce Investments

    For workforce investments, $42,896,000 from local funds, to be 
transferred by the Mayor of the District of Columbia within the various 
appropriation headings in this Act for which employees are properly 
payable.

                                 Reserve

    For replacement of funds expended, if any, during fiscal year 2001 
from the Reserve established by section 202(j) of the District of 
Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Act of 1995, 
Public Law 104-8, $120,000,000 from local funds.

                             Reserve Relief

    For reserve relief, $30,000,000, for the purpose of spending funds 
made available through the reduction from $150,000,000 to $120,000,000 
in the amount required for the budget reserve established by section 
202(j)(1) of the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and 
Management Assistance Act of 1995, Public Law 104-8: Provided, That 
$12,000,000 shall be available to the District of Columbia Public 
Schools and District of Columbia Public Charter Schools for educational 
enhancements: Provided further, That $18,000,000 shall be available 
pursuant to a local District law: Provided further, That of the 
$30,000,000, funds shall only be expended upon: (i) certification by the 
Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia that the funds are 
available and not required to address potential deficits; (ii) enactment 
of local District

[[Page 115 STAT. 940]]

law detailing the purpose for the expenditure; and (iii) prior 
notification by the Mayor to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
the Senate and House of Representatives in writing 30 days in advance of 
any such expenditure: Provided further, That the $18,000,000 provided 
pursuant to local law shall be expended only when the Emergency Reserve 
established pursuant to section 450A(a) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50a(a)), has 
a minimum balance in the amount of $150,000,000.

                 Emergency and Contingency Reserve Funds

    For the Emergency and Contingency Reserve Funds established under 
section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-
198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50a(b)), the Mayor may deposit the 
proceeds required pursuant to section 159(a) of Public Law 106-522 and 
section 404(c) of Public Law 106-554 in the Contingency Reserve Fund 
beginning in fiscal year 2002 if the minimum emergency reserve balance 
requirement established in section 450A(c) has been met.

                     Repayment of Loans and Interest

    For payment of principal, interest, and certain fees directly 
resulting from borrowing by the District of Columbia to fund District of 
Columbia capital projects as authorized by sections 462, 475, and 490 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official 
Code, secs. 1-204.62, 1-204.75, 1-204.90), $247,902,000 from local 
funds: Provided, That any funds set aside pursuant to section 148 of the 
District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2000 (Public Law 106-113; 113 
Stat. 1523) that are not used in the reserve funds established herein 
shall be used for Pay-As-You-Go Capital Funds: Provided further, That 
for equipment leases, the Mayor may finance $14,300,000 of equipment 
cost, plus cost of issuance not to exceed 2 percent of the par amount 
being financed on a lease purchase basis with a maturity not to exceed 5 
years: Provided further, That $4,440,000 shall be for the Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services Department, $2,010,000 shall be for the 
Department of Parks and Recreation, and $7,850,000 shall be for the 
Department of Public Works: Provided further, That no less than $533,000 
be available for trash transfer capital debt service.

                  Emergency Assistance Loan Guarantees

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the District of Columbia 
is hereby authorized to make any necessary payments related to the 
``District of Columbia Emergency Assistance Act of 2001'': Provided, 
That the District of Columbia shall use local funds for any payments 
under this <<NOTE: Certification.>>  heading: Provided further, That the 
Chief Financial Officer shall certify the availability of such funds, 
and shall certify that such funds are not required to address budget 
shortfalls in the District of Columbia: Provided further, That the 
Director the Office of Management and Budget shall develop with the 
Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia an estimate of the 
liability incurred by the District of Columbia in implementing such Act: 
Provided further, That the District of

[[Page 115 STAT. 941]]

Columbia shall implement such Act consistent with the recommendations 
made by the Office of Management and Budget and the Federal Credit 
Reform Act: Provided further, That the District of Columbia budget for 
fiscal year 2003 and future years shall include an amount for potential 
loan repayment consistent with the liability requirements recommended by 
the Office of Management and Budget.

                 Repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt

    For the purpose of eliminating the $331,589,000 general fund 
accumulated deficit as of September 30, 1990, $39,300,000 from local 
funds, as authorized by section 461(a) of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act, (105 Stat. 540; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.61(a)).

               Payment of Interest on Short-Term Borrowing

    For payment of interest on short-term borrowing, $500,000 from local 
funds.

                  Emergency Planning and Security Costs

    For an emergency operations plan, implementation of the emergency 
operations plan, and reimbursement of fiscal year 2001 expenses incurred 
by the District of Columbia for equipment purchased for providing 
security for the planned World Bank and International Monetary Fund 
September 2001 meetings, $16,058,000, from funds previously appropriated 
in this Act as a Federal payment, of which $12,652,000 shall be made 
available immediately to the District of Columbia Emergency Management 
Agency for planning, training and personnel costs required for 
development and implementation of the emergency operations plan for the 
District of Columbia.

                             Wilson Building

    For expenses associated with the John A. Wilson Building, $8,859,000 
from local funds.

                     Emergency Reserve Fund Transfer

    Subject to the issuance of bonds to pay the purchase price of the 
District of Columbia's right, title, and interest in and to the Master 
Settlement Agreement, and consistent with the Tobacco Settlement Trust 
Fund Establishment Act of 1999 (D.C. Official Code, sec. 7-1811.01(a)(2) 
et seq.) and the Tobacco Settlement Financing Act of 2000 (D.C. Official 
Code, sec. 7-1831.03 et seq.), there is transferred the amount available 
pursuant thereto and section 404(c) of Public Law 106-554, not less than 
$33,254,000, to the Emergency and Contingency Reserve Funds established 
pursuant to section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
(Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.50a(a)).

                         Non-Departmental Agency

    To account for anticipated costs that cannot be allocated to 
specific agencies during the development of the proposed budget

[[Page 115 STAT. 942]]

including anticipated employee health insurance cost increases and 
contract security costs, $5,799,000 from local funds.

                       ENTERPRISE AND OTHER FUNDS

                        Water and Sewer Authority

    For operation of the Water and Sewer Authority, $244,978,000 from 
other funds of which $44,244,000 shall be apportioned for repayment of 
loans and interest incurred for capital improvement projects 
($17,953,000 payable to the District's debt service fund and $26,291,000 
payable for other debt service).
    For construction projects, $152,114,000, in the following capital 
programs: $52,600,000 for the Blue Plains Wastewater Treatment Plant, 
$11,148,000 for the sewer program, $109,000 for the combined sewer 
program, $118,000 for the stormwater program, $77,957,000 for the water 
program, $10,182,000 for the capital equipment program: Provided, That 
the requirements and restrictions that are applicable to general fund 
capital improvements projects and set forth in this Act under the 
Capital Outlay appropriation account shall apply to projects approved 
under this appropriation account.

                        Administrative Provision

billings for water and sewer authority services provided to the federal 
                               government

    (a) Providing Estimates to Secretary of the Treasury and Department 
Heads.--
            (1) Sanitary sewer services.--Section 212(b)(2) of the 
        District of Columbia Public Works Act of 1954 (sec. 34-
        2112(b)(2), D.C. Official Code) is amended by inserting after 
        ``the Office of Management and Budget,'' the following: ``the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, and the head of each of the 
        respective Federal departments, independent establishments, and 
        agencies,''.
            (2) Water services.--Section 106(b)(2) of such Act (sec. 34-
        2401.25(b)(2), D.C. Official Code) is amended by inserting after 
        ``the Office of Management and Budget,'' the following: ``the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, and the head of each of the 
        respective Federal departments, independent establishments, and 
        agencies,''.
            (3) Clarification of treatment of arlington national 
        cemetery.--Chapter 11 of title II of the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 107-20; 115 Stat. 
        188) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 191.>>  is amended in the item relating to 
        ``INDEPENDENT AGENCIES--Department of Defense--Civil--Cemeterial 
        Expenses, Army--salaries and expenses'' by striking the colon at 
        the end of the second proviso and inserting the following: ``, 
        except that nothing in this proviso may be construed to affect 
        the determination of the amounts required to be paid for such 
        services under sections 212(b) and 106(b) of the District of 
        Columbia Public Works Act of 1954 (sec. 34-2401.25(b) and sec. 
        34-2112(b), D.C. Official Code) or to waive the requirement 
        under such sections for the Secretary of Defense to pay such 
        amounts to the District of Columbia:''.

[[Page 115 STAT. 943]]

    (b) Requiring Federal Departments to Grant Access to Authority for 
Reading and Testing Water Meters.--
            (1) In general.--Section 106(a) of the District of Columbia 
        Public Works Act of 1954 (sec. 34-2401.25(a), D.C. Official 
        Code) is amended by inserting before the last sentence the 
        following: ``As an additional condition of service, the 
        department, agency, or establishment which is responsible for 
        the maintenance of any such meter shall provide the Mayor 
        (acting through the District of Columbia Water and Sewer 
        Authority) with such access to the meter as the Mayor may 
        require to measure the actual usage of the department, agency, 
        or establishment (including any entity under the jurisdiction of 
        the department, agency, or establishment) for purposes of making 
        the adjustments to annual estimates required under subsection 
        (b)(2)(A).''.
            (2) Permitting authority to install meters.--If a 
        department, independent establishment, or agency of the United 
        States which uses water and water services from the District of 
        Columbia water supply system has not installed a suitable meter 
        at each point of Federal connection to the system to control and 
        record the use of water through each such connection (as 
        required under section 106(a) of the District of Columbia Public 
        Works Act of 1954) as of the expiration of the 60-day period 
        which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act--
                    (A) the District of Columbia Water and Sewer 
                Authority shall install such a meter or meters (and 
                incidental vaults, valves, piping and recording devices, 
                and such other equipment as the Authority deems 
                necessary) not later than 60 days after the expiration 
                of such period; and
                    (B) the department, independent establishment, or 
                agency shall pay the Authority promptly (but in no case 
                later than 30 days after the Authority submits a bill) 
                for the costs incurred in installing the meter and 
                equipment.

    (c) Clarification of Responsibility of Federal Departments to 
Allocate Billings and Collect Amounts From Individual Offices.--
            (1) Sanitary sewer services.--Section 212 of the District of 
        Columbia Public Works Act of 1954 (sec. 34-2112, D.C. Official 
        Code) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(c) Nothing in this section may be construed to require the 
District of Columbia to seek payment for sanitary sewer services 
directly from any Federal entity which is under the jurisdiction of a 
department, independent establishment, or agency which is required to 
make a payment for such services under this section, or to allocate any 
amounts charged for such services among the entities which are under the 
jurisdiction of any such department, independent establishment, or 
agency. Each Federal department, independent establishment, and agency 
receiving sanitary sewer services from the District of Columbia shall be 
responsible for allocating billings for such services among entities 
under the jurisdiction of the department, establishment, or agency, and 
shall be responsible for collecting amounts from such entities for any 
payments made to the District of Columbia under this section.''.

[[Page 115 STAT. 944]]

            (2) Water services.--Section 106 of the District of Columbia 
        Public Works Act of 1954 (sec. 34-2401.25, D.C. Official Code) 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:

    ``(c) Nothing in this section may be construed to require the 
District of Columbia to seek payment for water services directly from 
any Federal entity which is under the jurisdiction of a department, 
independent establishment, or agency which is required to make a payment 
for such services under this section, or to allocate any amounts charged 
for such services among the entities which are under the jurisdiction of 
any such department, independent establishment, or agency. Each Federal 
department, independent establishment, and agency receiving water from 
the District of Columbia shall be responsible for allocating billings 
for such services among entities under the jurisdiction of the 
department, establishment, or agency, and shall be responsible for 
collecting amounts from such entities for any payments made to the 
District of Columbia under this section.
    ``(d) In the case of water services provided to a department, 
independent establishment, or agency in Virginia through the Federally 
owned water main system, if the total of the metered amounts billed for 
all individual users of the system (as measured by the meters for each 
individual user) is less than the total amount as measured by the meters 
at the delivery points into the system at the Francis Scott Key Bridge, 
the District government shall collect, and the Secretary of Defense 
shall pay, the difference to the District government in accordance with 
the requirements for collecting and making payments under this 
section.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each succeeding 
fiscal year.

                           Washington Aqueduct

    For operation of the Washington Aqueduct, $46,510,000 from other 
funds.

              Stormwater Permit Compliance Enterprise Fund

    For operation of the Stormwater Permit Compliance Enterprise Fund, 
$3,100,000 from other funds.

              Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund

    For the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund, established by 
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act, 1982 (95 Stat. 1174, 1175; 
Public Law 97-91), for the purpose of implementing the Law to Legalize 
Lotteries, Daily Numbers Games, and Bingo and Raffles for Charitable 
Purposes in the District of Columbia (D.C. Law 3-172; D.C. Official 
Code, sec. 3-1301 et seq. and sec. 22-1716 et seq.), $229,688,000: 
Provided, That the District of Columbia shall identify the source of 
funding for this appropriation title from the District's own locally 
generated revenues: Provided further, That no revenues from Federal 
sources shall be used to support the operations or activities of the 
Lottery and Charitable Games Control Board.

[[Page 115 STAT. 945]]

                   Sports and Entertainment Commission

    For the Sports and Entertainment Commission, $9,627,000 (including 
$2,177,000 to be derived by transfer from the general fund of the 
District of Columbia and $7,450,000 from other funds): Provided, That 
the transfer of $2,177,000 from the general fund shall not be made 
unless the District of Columbia general fund has received $2,177,000 
from the D.C. Sports and Entertainment Commission prior to September 30, 
2001: Provided further, That the Mayor shall submit a budget for the 
Armory Board for the forthcoming fiscal year as required by section 
442(b) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 824; Public 
Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-204.42(b)).

                  District of Columbia Retirement Board

    For the District of Columbia Retirement Board, established by 
section 121 of the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1979 
(93 Stat. 866; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-711), $13,388,000 from the 
earnings of the applicable retirement funds to pay legal, management, 
investment, and other fees and administrative expenses of the District 
of Columbia Retirement Board: Provided, That the District of Columbia 
Retirement Board shall provide to the Congress and to the Council of the 
District of Columbia a quarterly report of the allocations of charges by 
fund and of expenditures of all funds: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia Retirement Board shall provide the Mayor, for 
transmittal to the Council of the District of Columbia, an itemized 
accounting of the planned use of appropriated funds in time for each 
annual budget submission and the actual use of such funds in time for 
each annual audited financial report.

              Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund

    For the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund, $57,278,000 
from other funds.

                         Housing Finance Agency

    For the Housing Finance Agency, $4,711,000 from other funds.

               National Capital Revitalization Corporation

    For the National Capital Revitalization Corporation, $2,673,000 from 
other funds.

                             CAPITAL OUTLAY

                         (including rescissions)

    For construction projects, an increase of $1,550,787,000 of which 
$1,348,783,000 shall be from local funds, $44,431,000 from Highway Trust 
funds, and $157,573,000 from Federal funds, and a rescission of 
$476,182,000 from local funds appropriated under this heading in prior 
fiscal years, for a net amount of $1,074,605,000 to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That funds for use of each capital project 
implementing agency shall be managed and controlled in accordance with 
all procedures and limitations established under the Financial 
Management System: Provided further, That

[[Page 115 STAT. 946]]

all funds provided by this appropriation title shall be available only 
for the specific projects and purposes intended: Provided further, That 
the capital budget for the Department of Health shall not be available 
until the District of Columbia Council's Committee on Human Services 
receives a report on the use of any capital funds for projects on the 
grounds of D.C. General Hospital: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Expiration date.>>  notwithstanding the foregoing, all 
authorizations for capital outlay projects, except those projects 
covered by the first sentence of section 23(a) of the Federal Aid 
Highway Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 827; Public Law 90-495), for which funds 
are provided by this appropriation title, shall expire on September 30, 
2003, except authorizations for projects as to which funds have been 
obligated in whole or in part prior to September 30, 2003: Provided 
further, That upon expiration of any such project authorization, the 
funds provided herein for the project shall lapse: Provided further, 
That except for funds approved in the budgets prior to the fiscal year 
2002 budget and FL-MA2 in the fiscal year 2002 Budget Request, no funds 
may be expended to renovate, rehabilitate or construct any facility 
within the boundaries of census tract 68.04 for any purpose associated 
with the D.C. Department of Corrections, the CSOSA, or the federal 
Bureau of Prisons unit until March 31, 2002 or until such time as the 
Mayor shall present to the Council for its approval, a plan for the 
development of census tract 68.04 south of East Capitol Street, S.E., 
and the housing of any misdemeanants, felons, ex-offenders, or persons 
awaiting trial within the District of Columbia, whichever occurs 
earlier: Provided further, That none of the conditions set forth in this 
paragraph shall interfere with the current operations of any Federal 
agency: Provided further, That none of the conditions set forth shall 
restrict the ongoing operations of the Department of Corrections.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. Whenever in this Act, an amount is specified within an 
appropriation for particular purposes or objects of expenditure, such 
amount, unless otherwise specified, shall be considered as the maximum 
amount that may be expended for said purpose or object rather than an 
amount set apart exclusively therefor.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations in this Act shall be available for expenses 
of travel and for the payment of dues of organizations concerned with 
the work of the District of Columbia government, when authorized by the 
Mayor: Provided, That in the case of the Council of the District of 
Columbia, funds may be expended with the authorization of the chair of 
the Council.
    Sec. 103. There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government: Provided, That 
nothing contained in this section shall be construed as modifying or 
affecting the provisions of section 11(c)(3) of title XII of the 
District of Columbia Income and Franchise Tax Act of 1947 (70 Stat. 78; 
Public Law 84-460; D.C. Code, sec. 47-1812.11(c)(3)).
    Sec. 104. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

[[Page 115 STAT. 947]]

    Sec. 105. No funds appropriated in this Act for the District of 
Columbia government for the operation of educational institutions, the 
compensation of personnel, or for other educational purposes may be used 
to permit, encourage, facilitate, or further partisan political 
activities. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the availability of 
school buildings for the use of any community or partisan political 
group during non-school hours.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be made 
available to pay the salary of any employee of the District of Columbia 
government whose name, title, grade, and salary are not available for 
inspection by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, the 
House Committee on Government Reform, the Senate Committee on 
Governmental Affairs, and the Council of the District of Columbia, or 
their duly authorized representative.
    Sec. 107. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), no part of this 
appropriation shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes or 
implementation of any policy including boycott designed to support or 
defeat legislation pending before Congress or any State legislature.
    (b) The District of Columbia may use local funds provided in this 
Act to carry out lobbying activities on any matter other than--
            (1) the promotion or support of any boycott; or
            (2) statehood for the District of Columbia or voting 
        representation in Congress for the District of Columbia.

    (c) Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit any elected 
official from advocating with respect to any of the issues referred to 
in subsection (b).
    Sec. 108. At <<NOTE: Reports.>>  the start of the fiscal year, the 
Mayor shall develop an annual plan, by quarter and by project, for 
capital outlay borrowings: Provided, That within a reasonable time after 
the close of each quarter, the Mayor shall report to the Council of the 
District of Columbia and the Congress the actual borrowings and spending 
progress compared with projections.

    Sec. 109. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act to the 
agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2002, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure for 
an agency through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new 
programs; (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility center; 
(3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, limited or 
increased by Congress in this Act; (4) increases funds or personnel by 
any means for any program, project, or responsibility center for which 
funds have been denied or restricted; (5) reestablishes through 
reprogramming any program or project previously deferred through 
reprogramming; (6) augments existing programs, projects, or 
responsibility centers through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) 
increases <<NOTE: Notification.>>  by 20 percent or more personnel 
assigned to a specific program, project or responsibility center; unless 
the Committees on Appropriations of both the Senate and House of 
Representatives are notified in writing 30 days in advance of any 
reprogramming as set forth in this section.

    (b) None <<NOTE: Notification.>>  of the local funds contained in 
this Act may be available for obligation or expenditure for an agency 
through a transfer

[[Page 115 STAT. 948]]

of any local funds from one appropriation heading to another unless the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives 
are notified in writing 30 days in advance of the transfer, except that 
in no event may the amount of any funds transferred exceed four percent 
of the local funds in the appropriation.

    Sec. 110. Consistent with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations under this Act shall be applied only to the objects for 
which the appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law.
    Sec. 111. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the 
provisions of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978 (D.C. Law 2-139; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-601.01 
et seq.), enacted pursuant to section 422(3) of the District of Columbia 
Home Rule Act (87 Stat. 790; Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 
1-204.22(3)), shall apply with respect to the compensation of District 
of Columbia employees: Provided, That for pay purposes, employees of the 
District of Columbia government shall not be subject to the provisions 
of title 5, United States Code.
    (b)(1) Certification of Need by Chief Technology Officer.--Section 
2706(b) of the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit 
Personnel Act of 1978, as added by section 2 of the District Government 
Personnel Exchange Agreement Amendment Act of 2000 (D.C. Law 13-296), is 
amended by inserting after ``Director of Personnel'' each place it 
appears the following: ``(or the Chief Technology Officer, in the case 
of the Office of the Chief Technology Officer)''.
    (2) Inclusion of Overhead Costs in Agreements.--Section 2706(c)(3) 
of such Act is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting 
the following: ``, except that in the case of the Office of the Chief 
Technology Officer, general and administrative costs shall include 
reasonable overhead costs and shall be calculated by the Chief 
Technology Officer (as determined under such criteria as the Chief 
Technology Officer independently deems appropriate subject to the review 
of the City Administrator, including a consideration of standards used 
to calculate general, administrative, and overhead costs for off-site 
employees found in Federal law and regulation and in general private 
industry practice).''.
    (3) Reporting Requirement.--Section 2706 of such Act is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection:

    ``(f) Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 45 days after the end of 
each fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 2002), the Chief Technology 
Officer shall prepare and submit to the Council and to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate a report 
describing all agreements entered into by the Chief Technology Officer 
under this section which are in effect during the fiscal year.''.

    (c) The authority which the Chief Financial Officer of the District 
of Columbia exercised with respect to personnel, procurement, and the 
preparation of fiscal impact statements during a control period (as 
defined in Public Law 104-8) shall remain in effect through July 1, 
2002.

[[Page 115 STAT. 949]]

    (d) Section 424(b)(3) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act 
(sec. 1-204.24b(c), D.C. Official Code) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``determined'' and all that follows through 
        ``exceed'' and inserting ``equal to''; and
            (2) by striking ``IV'' and inserting ``I''.

    (e) Effective Date.--The <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  amendment made 
by subsection (d) shall apply with respect to pay periods in fiscal year 
2002 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 112. No <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 30 days after the end 
of the first quarter of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia shall submit to the Council of the 
District of Columbia the new fiscal year 2002 revenue estimates as of 
the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2002. These estimates shall 
be used in the budget request for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2003. The officially revised estimates at midyear shall be used for the 
midyear report.

    Sec. 113. No sole source contract with the District of Columbia 
government or any agency thereof may be renewed or extended without 
opening that contract to the competitive bidding process as set forth in 
section 303 of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act of 
1985 (D.C. Law 6-85; D.C. Code, sec. 2-303.03), except that the District 
of Columbia government or any agency thereof may renew or extend sole 
source contracts for which competition is not feasible or practical: 
Provided, That the determination as to whether to invoke the competitive 
bidding process has been made in accordance with duly promulgated rules 
and procedures and said determination has been reviewed and certified by 
the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia.
    Sec. 114. (a) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the event a sequestration 
order is issued pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), after the 
amounts appropriated to the District of Columbia for the fiscal year 
involved have been paid to the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia shall pay to the Secretary of the Treasury, within 
15 days after receipt of a request therefor from the Secretary of the 
Treasury, such amounts as are sequestered by the order: Provided, That 
the sequestration percentage specified in the order shall be applied 
proportionately to each of the Federal appropriation accounts in this 
Act that are not specifically exempted from sequestration by such Act.

    (b) For purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1037; Public Law 99-177), the term 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be synonymous with and refer 
specifically to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act, 
and any sequestration order shall be applied to each of the accounts 
rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts: Provided, That 
sequestration orders shall not be applied to any account that is 
specifically exempted from sequestration by the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 115. Acceptance and Use of Gifts. (a) Approval by Mayor.--
            (1) In general.--An entity of the District of Columbia 
        government may accept and use a gift or donation during fiscal 
        year 2002 if--
                    (A) the Mayor approves the acceptance and use of the 
                gift or donation (except as provided in paragraph (2)); 
                and

[[Page 115 STAT. 950]]

                    (B) the entity uses the gift or donation to carry 
                out its authorized functions or duties.
            (2) Exception for council and courts.--The Council of the 
        District of Columbia and the District of Columbia courts may 
        accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor.

    (b) Records and Public Inspection.--Each entity of the District of 
Columbia government shall keep accurate and detailed records of the 
acceptance and use of any gift or donation under subsection (a), and 
shall make such records available for audit and public inspection.
    (c) Independent Agencies Included.--For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``entity of the District of Columbia government'' 
includes an independent agency of the District of Columbia.
    (d) Exception for Board of Education.--This section shall not apply 
to the District of Columbia Board of Education, which may, pursuant to 
the laws and regulations of the District of Columbia, accept and use 
gifts to the public schools without prior approval by the Mayor.
    Sec. 116. None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be used 
by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or other 
costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or United 
States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of Columbia 
Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3-171; 
D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 117. None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 118. None of the Federal funds made available in this Act may 
be used to implement or enforce the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act 
of 1992 (D.C. Law 9-114; D.C. Official Code, sec. 32-701 et seq.) or to 
otherwise implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, 
cohabiting couples, including but not limited to registration for the 
purpose of extending employment, health, or governmental benefits to 
such couples on the same basis that such benefits are extended to 
legally married couples.
    Sec. 119. Acceptance and Use of Grants Not Included in Ceiling. (a) 
In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Mayor, 
in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer may accept, obligate, 
and expend Federal, private, and other grants received by the District 
government that are not reflected in the amounts appropriated in this 
Act.
    (b) Requirement of Chief Financial Officer Report and Council 
Approval.--No such Federal, private, or other grant may be accepted, 
obligated, or expended pursuant to subsection (a) until--
            (1) the Chief Financial Officer of the District of Columbia 
        submits to the Council a report setting forth detailed 
        information regarding such grant; and
            (2) the Council within 15 calendar days after receipt of the 
        report submitted under paragraph (1) has reviewed and approved 
        the acceptance, obligation, and expenditure of such grant.

    (c) Prohibition on Spending in Anticipation of Approval or 
Receipt.--No amount may be obligated or expended from the general fund 
or other funds of the District government in anticipation of the 
approval or receipt of a grant under subsection (b)(2)

[[Page 115 STAT. 951]]

of this section or in anticipation of the approval or receipt of a 
Federal, private, or other grant not subject to such paragraph.
    (d) Quarterly Reports.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall prepare a quarterly report 
setting forth detailed information regarding all Federal, private, and 
other grants subject to this section. Each such report shall be 
submitted to the Council of the District of Columbia, and to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, not later than 15 days after the end of the quarter covered by 
the report.

    Sec. 120. (a) Restrictions on Use of Official Vehicles.--Except as 
otherwise provided in this section, none of the funds made available by 
this Act or by any other Act may be used to provide any officer or 
employee of the District of Columbia with an official vehicle unless the 
officer or employee uses the vehicle only in the performance of the 
officer's or employee's official duties. For purposes of this paragraph, 
the term ``official duties'' does not include travel between the 
officer's or employee's residence and workplace (except: (1) in the case 
of an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police Department who 
resides in the District of Columbia or is otherwise designated by the 
Chief of the Department; (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an 
officer or employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency 
Medical Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
is on call 24 hours a day; (3) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; 
and (4) the Chairman of the Council of the District of Columbia).
    (b) Inventory of Vehicles.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall submit, by November 15, 2001, 
an inventory, as of September 30, 2001, of all vehicles owned, leased or 
operated by the District of Columbia government. The inventory shall 
include, but not be limited to, the department to which the vehicle is 
assigned; the year and make of the vehicle; the acquisition date and 
cost; the general condition of the vehicle; annual operating and 
maintenance costs; current mileage; and whether the vehicle is allowed 
to be taken home by a District officer or employee and if so, the 
officer or employee's title and resident location.

    (c) No officer or employee of the District of Columbia government 
(including any independent agency of the District but excluding the 
Office of the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Financial Officer of 
the District of Colubmia, and the Metropolitan Police Department) may 
enter into an agreement in excess of $2,500 for the procurement of goods 
or services on behalf of any entity of the District government until the 
officer or employee has conducted an analysis of how the procurement of 
the goods and services involved under the applicable regulations and 
procedures of the District government would differ from the procurement 
of the goods and services involved under the Federal supply schedule and 
other applicable regulations and procedures of the General Services 
Administration, including an analysis of any differences in the costs to 
be incurred and the time required to obtain the goods or services.
    Sec. 121. Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  any other provision 
of law, not later than 120 days after the date that a District of 
Columbia Public Schools (DCPS) student is referred for evaluation or 
assessment--
            (1) the District of Columbia Board of Education, or its 
        successor, and DCPS shall assess or evaluate a student who

[[Page 115 STAT. 952]]

        may have a disability and who may require special education 
        services; and
            (2) if a student is classified as having a disability, as 
        defined in section 101(a)(1) of the Individuals with 
        Disabilities Education Act (84 Stat. 175; 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)) 
        or in section 7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (87 Stat. 
        359; 29 U.S.C. 706(8)), the Board and DCPS shall place that 
        student in an appropriate program of special education services.

    Sec. 122. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--No funds 
appropriated in this Act may be made available to any person or entity 
that violates the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    (b) Sense of the Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products 
        to the greatest extent practicable.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each agency of the Federal or District of Columbia 
        government shall provide to each recipient of the assistance a 
        notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the 
        Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 123. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used for 
purposes of the annual independent audit of the District of Columbia 
government for fiscal year 2002 unless--
            (1) the audit is conducted by the Inspector General of the 
        District of Columbia, in coordination with the Chief Financial 
        Officer of the District of Columbia, pursuant to section 
        208(a)(4) of the District of Columbia Procurement Practices Act 
        of 1985 (D.C. Official Code, sec. 2-302.8); and
            (2) the audit includes as a basic financial statement a 
        comparison of audited actual year-end results with the revenues 
        submitted in the budget document for such year and the 
        appropriations enacted into law for such year using the format, 
        terminology, and classifications contained in the law making the 
        appropriations for the year and its legislative history.

    Sec. 124. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used by the 
District of Columbia Corporation Counsel or any other officer or entity 
of the District government to provide assistance for any petition drive 
or civil action which seeks to require Congress

[[Page 115 STAT. 953]]

to provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    Sec. 125. (a) <<NOTE: Needle exchange.>>  None of the funds 
contained in this Act may be used for any program of distributing 
sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal 
drug.

    (b) Any individual or entity who receives any funds contained in 
this Act and who carries out any program described in subsection (a) 
shall account for all funds used for such program separately from any 
funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 126. None <<NOTE: Deadline. Records.>>  of the funds contained 
in this Act may be used after the expiration of the 60-day period that 
begins on the date of the enactment of this Act to pay the salary of any 
chief financial officer of any office of the District of Columbia 
government (including any independent agency of the District) who has 
not filed a certification with the Mayor and the Chief Financial Officer 
of the District of Columbia that the officer understands the duties and 
restrictions applicable to the officer and the officer's agency as a 
result of this Act (and the amendments made by this Act), including any 
duty to prepare a report requested either in the Act or in any of the 
reports accompanying the Act and the deadline by which each report must 
be submitted, and the District's Chief Financial Officer shall provide 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives by the 10th day after the end of each quarter a summary 
list showing each report, the due date and the date submitted to the 
committees.

    Sec. 127. (a) None <<NOTE: Drugs and drug abuse.>>  of the funds 
contained in this Act may be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, 
or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties associated with 
the possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under 
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802) or any 
tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.

    (b) The Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative 
of 1998, also known as Initiative 59, approved by the electors of the 
District of Columbia on November 3, 1998, shall not take effect.
    Sec. 128. Nothing <<NOTE: Contraceptives.>>  in this Act may be 
construed to prevent the Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia 
from addressing the issue of the provision of contraceptive coverage by 
health insurance plans, but it is the intent of Congress that any 
legislation enacted on such issue should include a ``conscience clause'' 
which provides exceptions for religious beliefs and moral convictions.

                   prompt payment of appointed counsel

    Sec. 129. (a) Assessment of Interest for Delayed Payments.--If the 
Superior Court of the District of Columbia or the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals does not make a payment described in subsection (b) 
prior to the expiration of the 45-day period which begins on the date 
the Court receives a completed voucher for a claim for the payment, 
interest shall be assessed against the amount of the payment which would 
otherwise be made to take into account the period which begins on the 
day after the expiration of such 45-day period and which ends on the day 
the Court makes the payment.
    (b) Payments Described.--A payment described in this subsection is--

[[Page 115 STAT. 954]]

            (1) a payment authorized under section 11-2604 and section 
        11-2605, D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under 
        the District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act);
            (2) a payment for counsel appointed in proceedings in the 
        Family Division of the Superior Court of the District of 
        Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Code; or
            (3) a payment for counsel authorized under section 21-2060, 
        D.C. Code (relating to representation provided under the 
        District of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Proceedings, and 
        Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986).

    (c) Standards for Submission of Completed Vouchers.--The chief 
judges of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia and the 
District of Columbia Court of Appeals shall establish standards and 
criteria for determining whether vouchers submitted for claims for 
payments described in subsection (b) are complete, and shall publish and 
make such standards and criteria available to attorneys who practice 
before such Courts.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the assessment of interest against any claim (or 
portion of any claim) which is denied by the Court involved.
    (e) Effective Date.--This <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  section shall 
apply with respect to claims received by the Superior Court of the 
District of Columbia or the District of Columbia Court of Appeals during 
fiscal year 2002, and claims received previously that remain unpaid at 
the end of fiscal year 2001, and would have qualified for interest 
payment under this section.

   Federal Contribution for Enforcement of Law Banning Possession of 
                       Tobacco Products by Minors

    Sec. 130. (a) Contribution.--There is hereby appropriated a Federal 
contribution of $100,000 to the Metropolitan Police Department of the 
District of Columbia, effective upon the enactment by the District of 
Columbia of a law which reads as follows:

            ``ban on possession of tobacco products by minors

    ``Section 1. (a) In General.--It shall be unlawful for any 
individual under 18 years of age to possess any cigarette or other 
tobacco product in the District of Columbia.
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Possession in course of employment.--Subsection (a) 
        shall not apply with respect to an individual making a delivery 
        of cigarettes or tobacco products in pursuance of employment.
            ``(2) Participation in law enforcement operation.--
        Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to an individual 
        possessing products in the course of a valid, supervised law 
        enforcement operation.

    ``(c) Penalties.--Any individual who violates subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the following penalties:
            ``(1) For any violation, the individual may be required to 
        perform community service or attend a tobacco cessation program.
            ``(2) Upon the first violation, the individual shall be 
        subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $50.

[[Page 115 STAT. 955]]

            ``(3) Upon the second and each subsequent violation, the 
        individual shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed 
        $100.
            ``(4) Upon the third and each subsequent violation, the 
        individual may have his or her driving privileges in the 
        District of Columbia suspended for a period of 90 consecutive 
        days.''.

    (b) Use of Contribution.--The Metropolitan Police Department shall 
use the contribution made under subsection (a) to enforce the law 
referred to in such subsection.
    Sec. 131. The <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Mayor of the District of Columbia 
shall submit to the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations, the 
Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, and the House Government Reform 
Committee quarterly reports addressing the following issues: (1) crime, 
including the homicide rate, implementation of community policing, the 
number of police officers on local beats, and the closing down of open-
air drug markets; (2) access to drug abuse treatment, including the 
number of treatment slots, the number of people served, the number of 
people on waiting lists, and the effectiveness of treatment programs; 
(3) management of parolees and pre-trial violent offenders, including 
the number of halfway house escapes and steps taken to improve 
monitoring and supervision of halfway house residents to reduce the 
number of escapes to be provided in consultation with the Court Services 
and Offender Supervision Agency; (4) education, including access to 
special education services and student achievement to be provided in 
consultation with the District of Columbia Public Schools; (5) 
improvement in basic District services, including rat control and 
abatement; (6) application for and management of Federal grants, 
including the number and type of grants for which the District was 
eligible but failed to apply and the number and type of grants awarded 
to the District but for which the District failed to spend the amounts 
received; and (7) indicators of child well-being.

    Sec. 132. Nothing in this Act bars the District of Columbia 
Corporation Counsel from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private 
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the District government 
regarding such lawsuits.

                              reserve funds

    Sec. 133. (a) In General.--Section 202(j) of Public Law 104-8, the 
District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance 
Act of 1995 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(j) Reserve Funds.--
            ``(1) Budget reserve.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each of the fiscal years 2002 
                and 2003, the budget of the District government for the 
                fiscal year shall contain a budget reserve in the 
                following amounts:
                          ``(i) $120,000,000, in the case of fiscal year 
                      2002.
                          ``(ii) $70,000,000, in the case of fiscal year 
                      2003.
                    ``(B) Availability of funds.--Any amount made 
                available from the budget reserve described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall remain available until expended.
                    ``(C) Availability of fiscal year 2001 budget 
                reserve funds.--For fiscal year 2001, any amount in the 
                budget reserve shall remain available until expended.
            ``(2) Cumulative cash reserve.--In addition to any other 
        cash reserves required under section 450A of the District of

[[Page 115 STAT. 956]]

        Columbia Home Rule Act, for each of the fiscal years 2004 and 
        2005, the budget of the District government for the fiscal year 
        shall contain a cumulative cash reserve of $50,000,000.
            ``(3) Conditions on use.--The District of Columbia may 
        obligate or expend amounts in the budget reserve under paragraph 
        (1) or the cumulative cash reserve under paragraph (2) only in 
        accordance with the following conditions:
                    ``(A) The <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Chief Financial 
                Officer of the District of Columbia shall certify that 
                the amounts are available.
                    ``(B) The amounts shall be obligated or expended in 
                accordance with laws enacted by the Council in support 
                of each such obligation or expenditure.
                    ``(C) The amounts may not be used to fund the 
                agencies of the District of Columbia government under 
                court ordered receivership.
                    ``(D) The amounts may be obligated or expended only 
                if the Mayor notifies the Committees on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives and Senate in writing 30 
                days in advance of any obligation or expenditure.
            ``(4) Replenishment.--Any amount of the budget reserve under 
        paragraph (1) or the cumulative cash reserve under paragraph (2) 
        which is expended in 1 fiscal year shall be replenished in the 
        following fiscal year appropriations to maintain the required 
        balance.''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect October 1, 2001.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 159(c) of the District of 
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-522; 114 Stat. 2482) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Effective Date.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), this 
        section and the amendments made by this section shall take 
        effect on October 1, 2000.
            ``(2) Repeal of positive fund balance requirement.--The 
        amendment made by subsection (b)(2) shall take effect October 1, 
        1999.
            ``(3) Transfer of funds.--All funds identified by the 
        District government pursuant to section 148 of Public Law 106-
        113, as reflected in the certified annual financial report for 
        fiscal year 2000, shall be deposited during fiscal year 2002 
        into the Emergency and Contingency Reserve Funds established 
        pursuant to section 159 of Public Law 106-522, during fiscal 
        year 2002.''.

    (d) Contingency Reserve Fund.--Section 450A(b) of the Home Rule Act 
(Public Law 93-198) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--There is established a contingency cash 
        reserve fund (in this subsection referred to as the `contingency 
        reserve fund') as an interest-bearing account (separate from 
        other accounts in the General Fund) into which the Mayor shall 
        deposit in cash not later than October 1 of each fiscal year 
        (beginning with fiscal year 2002) such amount as may be required 
        to maintain a balance in the fund of at least 3 percent of the 
        total budget appropriated for operating expenditures for such 
        fiscal year which is derived from local funds (or, in the case 
        of fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2007, such amount as may be 
        required to maintain a balance in the

[[Page 115 STAT. 957]]

        fund of at least the minimum contingency reserve balance for 
        such fiscal year, as determined under paragraph (2)).''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Applicable percentage defined.--In 
                subparagraph (A), the `applicable percentage' with 
                respect to a fiscal year means the following:
                          ``(i) For fiscal year 2002, 0 percent.
                          ``(ii) For fiscal year 2003, 0 percent.
                          ``(iii) For fiscal year 2004, 0 percent.
                          ``(iv) For fiscal year 2005, 1 percent.
                          ``(v) For fiscal year 2006, 2 percent.''.

    Sec. 134. Integrated Product Team. No funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be available for an Integrated Product Team until reorganization 
plans for the Integrated Product Team and a Capital Construction 
Services Administration have been approved, or deemed approved, by the 
Council: Provided, That this paragraph shall not apply to funds 
appropriated for the Office of Contracting and Procurement.
    Sec. 135. No <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  later than 30 calendar days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer of 
the District of Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress, the Mayor, and the Council a revised appropriated funds 
operating budget in the format of the budget that the District of 
Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia government for 
such fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved 
appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data for personal services 
and other-than-personal-services, respectively, with anticipated actual 
expenditures.

    Sec. 136. Section 403 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act, 
approved December 24, 1973 (Public Law 93-198; D.C. Official Code, sec. 
1-204.03), is amended as follows:
            (1) Subsection (c) is amended by striking ``shall receive, 
        in addition to the compensation to which he is entitled as a 
        member of the Council, $10,000 per annum, payable in equal 
        installments, for each year he serves as Chairman, but the 
        Chairman''.
            (2) A new subsection (d) is added to read as follows:

    ``(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a), as of the effective date of 
the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2001, the Chairman shall 
receive compensation, payable in equal installments, at a rate equal to 
$10,000 less than the annual compensation of the Mayor.''.
    Sec. 137. Risk Management for Settlements and Judgments. In addition 
to any other authority to pay claims and judgments, any department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the District government may pay the 
settlement or judgment of a claim or lawsuit in an amount less than 
$10,000, in accordance with the Risk Management for Settlements and 
Judgments Amendment Act of 2000, effective October 19, 2000 (D.C. Law 
13-172; D.C. Official Code, sec. 2-402).
    Sec. 138. Notwithstanding <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  section 
602(c)(1) of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1-206(c)(1), 
D.C. Code), the Closing of Portions of 2nd and N Streets, N.E. and Alley 
System in Square

[[Page 115 STAT. 958]]

710, S.O. 00-97, Act of 2001 (D.C. Act 14-106) shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of such Act or the date of the enactment of this 
Act, whichever is later.

    Sec. 139. None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to 
issue, administer, or enforce any order by the District of Columbia 
Commission on Human Rights relating to docket numbers 93-030-(PA) and 
93-031-(PA).
    Sec. 140. (a) Notwithstanding 20 U.S.C. 1415, 42 U.S.C. 1988, 29 
U.S.C 794a, or any other law, none of the funds appropriated under this 
Act, or in appropriations Acts for subsequent fiscal years, may be made 
available to pay attorneys' fees accrued prior to the effective date of 
this Act that exceeds a cap imposed on attorneys' fees by prior 
appropriations Acts that were in effect during the fiscal year when the 
work was performed, or when payment was requested for work previously 
performed, in an action or proceeding brought against the District of 
Columbia Public Schools under the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.).
    (b) No <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Superintendent of Schools for the 
District of Columbia shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations 
for the Senate and the House of Representatives a written report for 
each of the fiscal years 1999, 2000, and 2001, detailing a complete 
itemized list, by year, of the judgments for attorneys' fees awarded to 
plaintiffs who prevailed in cases brought against the District of 
Columbia or the District of Columbia Public Schools under section 
615(i)(3) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
1415(i)(3)). Such report shall specify: (1) the amount of each judgment; 
(2) the total amount paid on each judgment as of the date of the report; 
(3) the principal balance remaining due on each such judgment as of the 
date of the report, the amount of interest due as of December 31, 2001 
on each unpaid amount; and the prospective annual rate of interest 
applicable to the judgment as of January 1, 2002; (4) the name of the 
Court and case number for each judgment; (5) the aggregate total due in 
principal and interest on the judgments; and (6) the amount paid by the 
District of Columbia, in each case listed, to defense counsel 
representing the District or the District of Columbia Public Schools.

    Sec. 141. The <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Comptroller General, in 
consultation with the relevant agencies and members of the Committees on 
Appropriations Subcommittees on the District of Columbia, shall submit 
by March 31, 2002 a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House and the Senate and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Government Reform of the House of 
Representatives detailing the awards in judgment rendered in the 
District of Columbia that were in excess of the cap imposed by prior 
appropriations Acts in effect during the fiscal year when the work was 
performed, or when payment was requested for work previously performed, 
in actions brought against the District of Columbia Public Schools under 
the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et 
seq.): Provided, That such report shall include a comparison, to the 
extent practicable, of the causes of action and judgments rendered 
against public school districts of comparable demographics and 
population as the District.

[[Page 115 STAT. 959]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Appropriations 
Act, 2002''.

    Approved December 21, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2944 (S. 1543):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-216 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-321
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-85 accompanying S. 1543 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Sept. 25, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 6, 7, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Dec. 6, House agreed to conference report.
            Dec. 7, Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>