[107th Congress Public Law 11]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ011.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 19]]

Public Law 107-11
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To expedite the construction of the World War II memorial in the 
      District of Columbia. <<NOTE: May 28, 2001 -  [H.R. 1696]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 
note.>> 

SECTION 1. APPROVAL OF WORLD WAR II MEMORIAL SITE AND DESIGN.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the World War II 
memorial described in plans approved by the Commission of Fine Arts on 
July 20, 2000 and November 16, 2000, and selected by the National 
Capital Planning Commission on September 21, 2000 and December 14, 2000, 
and in accordance with the special use permit issued by the Secretary of 
the Interior on January 23, 2001, and numbered NCR-NACC-5700-0103, shall 
be constructed expeditiously at the dedicated Rainbow Pool site in the 
District of Columbia in a manner consistent with such plans and permits, 
subject to design modifications, if any, approved in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations.

SEC. 2. APPLICATION OF COMMEMORATIVE WORKS ACT.

    Elements of the memorial design and construction not approved as of 
the date of enactment of this Act shall be considered and approved in 
accordance with the requirements of the Commemorative Works Act (40 
U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

SEC. 3. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    The decision to locate the memorial at the Rainbow Pool site in the 
District of Columbia and the actions by the Commission of Fine Arts on 
July 20, 2000 and November 16, 2000, the actions by the National Capital 
Planning Commission on September 21, 2000 and December 14, 2000, and the 
issuance of the special use permit identified in section 1 shall not be 
subject to judicial review.

    Approved May 28, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1696:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            May 15, considered and passed House.
            May 21, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            May 22, House concurred in Senate amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            May 28, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>