[107th Congress Public Law 363]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ363.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 3024]]

Public Law 107-363
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the site 
commonly known as Eagledale Ferry Dock at Taylor Avenue in the State of 
        Washington for potential inclusion in the National Park 
             System. <<NOTE: Dec. 19, 2002 -  [H.R. 3747]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Bainbridge Island Japanese-
American Memorial Study Act of 2002.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Bainbridge Island 
Japanese-American Memorial Study Act of 2002''.
    (b) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) During World War II on February 19, 1942, President 
        Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, setting 
        in motion the forced exile of more than 110,000 Japanese 
        Americans.
            (2) In Washington State, 12,892 men, women and children of 
        Japanese ancestry experienced three years of incarceration, an 
        incarceration violating the most basic freedoms of American 
        citizens.
            (3) On March 30, 1942, 227 Bainbridge Island residents were 
        the first Japanese Americans in United States history to be 
        forcibly removed from their homes by the U.S. Army and sent to 
        internment camps. They boarded the ferry Kehloken from the 
        former Eagledale Ferry Dock, located at the end of Taylor 
        Avenue, in the city of Bainbridge Island, Washington State.
            (4) The city of Bainbridge Island has adopted a resolution 
        stating that this site should be a National Memorial, and 
        similar resolutions have been introduced in the Washington State 
        Legislature.
            (5) Both the Minidoka National Monument and Manzanar 
        National Historic Site can clearly tell the story of a time in 
        our Nation's history when constitutional rights were ignored. 
        These camps by design were placed in very remote places and are 
        not easily accessible. Bainbridge Island is a short ferry ride 
        from Seattle and the site would be within easy reach of many 
        more people.
            (6) This is a unique opportunity to create a site that will 
        honor those who suffered, cherish the friends and community who 
        stood beside them and welcomed them home, and inspire all to 
        stand firm in the event our nation again succumbs to similar 
        fears.
            (7) The site should be recognized by the National Park 
        Service based on its high degree of national significance, 
        association with significant events, and integrity of its 
        location

[[Page 116 STAT. 3025]]

        and setting. This site is critical as an anchor for future 
        efforts to identify, interpret, serve, and ultimately honor the 
        Nikkei--persons of Japanese ancestry--influence on Bainbridge 
        Island.

SEC. 2. EAGLEDALE FERRY DOCK LOCATION AT TAYLOR AVENUE STUDY AND REPORT.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall carry out a special 
resource study regarding the national significance, suitability, and 
feasibility of designating as a unit of the National Park System the 
property commonly known as the Eagledale Ferry Dock at Taylor Avenue and 
the historical events associated with it, located in the town of 
Bainbridge Island, Kitsap County, Washington.
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Report.--Not later than 1 year after funds 
are first made available for the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report describing the findings, conclusions, 
and recommendations of the study.

    (c) Requirements for Study.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
section, the study under subsection (a) shall be conducted in accordance 
with section 8(c) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)).

    Approved December 19, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3747: (S. 1894) (S. 1959)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-690 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-196 accompanying S. 1894 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Nov. 14, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>