[107th Congress Public Law 68]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ068.107]


[[Page 559]]

           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 560]]

Public Law 107-68
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 2002, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 
                         2001 -  [H.R. 2647]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2002, and for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS <<NOTE: Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2002. 2 USC 60a note.>> 

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
and Chairmen of the
Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $3,000 for each Chair-
man; in all, $62,000.

     representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $104,039,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,867,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $473,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 561]]

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,868,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,912,000.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $9,875,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,250,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,500,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $618,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,275,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,550,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $301,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $15,424,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $39,082,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,350,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $25,219,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative
Counsel of the Senate, $4,306,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 562]]

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,109,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
                  Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secre-
           taries for the Majority and Minority of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $107,264,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $520,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$8,571,000, of which $7,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $95,904,000, of which $8,654,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2004, and of which $11,354,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $14,274,000, of which not more than 
$3,000,000 may be made available for mailings of postal patron postcards 
by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town meeting by a 
Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local government) that the 
Senator will personally attend: Provided, That no funds for the purpose 
of such mailings shall be made available until the date of enactment of 
a statute authorizing the expenditure of funds for such purpose.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$270,494,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 563]]

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Section 101(a) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
1977 (2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``four individual consultants'' and inserting ``six indi-
vidual consultants'', and is amended in the second sentence by
striking ``one consultant'' and inserting ``not more than two indi-
vidual consultants''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 61h-6 note.>>  This section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: 2 USC 60c-5.>>  Student Loan Repayment Program. 
(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the Com-
        mittee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
            (2) Eligible employee.--The term ``eligible employee'' means 
        an individual--
                    (A) who is an employee of the Senate; and
                    (B) whose rate of pay as an employee of the Senate, 
                on the date on which such eligibility is determined, 
                does not exceed the rate of basic pay for an employee 
                for a position at ES-1 of the Senior Executive Schedule 
                as provided for in subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of 
                title 5, United States Code (including any locality pay 
                adjustment applicable to the Washington, D.C.-Baltimore 
                Maryland consolidated metropolitan statistical area).
            (3) Employee of the senate.--The term ``employee of the 
        Senate'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
        Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301).
            (4) Employing office.--The term ``employing office'' means 
        the employing office, as defined in section 101 of the 
        Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301), of an 
        employee of the Senate.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Senate.
            (6) Student loan.--The term ``student loan'' means--
                    (A) a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part 
                B, D, or E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq., 1087a et seq., or 1087aa 
                et seq.); and
                    (B) a health education assistance loan made or 
                insured under part A of title VII of the Public Health 
                Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), or under part E of 
                title VIII of such Act (42 U.S.C. 297a et seq.).

    (b) Senate Student Loan Repayment Program.--
            (1) Service agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--The head of an employing office and 
                an eligible employee may enter into a written service 
                agreement under which--
                          (i) the employing office shall agree to repay, 
                      by direct payments on behalf of the eligible 
                      employee, any student loan indebtedness of the 
                      eligible employee that is outstanding at the time 
                      the eligible employee

[[Page 115 STAT. 564]]

                      and the employing office enter into the agreement, 
                      subject to this section; and
                          (ii) the eligible employee shall agree to 
                      complete the 1-year required period of employment 
                      described in subsection (c)(1) with the employing 
                      office in exchange for the student loan payments.
                    (B) Contents of service agreements.--
                          (i) Contents.--A service agreement under this 
                      paragraph shall contain--
                                    (I) the start and end dates of the 
                                required period of employment covered by 
                                the agreement;
                                    (II) the monthly amount of the 
                                student loan payments to be provided by 
                                the employing office;
                                    (III) the employee's agreement to 
                                reimburse the Senate under the 
                                conditions set forth in subsection 
                                (d)(1);
                                    (IV) disclosure of the program 
                                limitations provided for in subsection 
                                (d)(4) and paragraphs (2), (3), (6), and 
                                (7) of subsection (f);
                                    (V) other terms to which the 
                                employing office and employee agree 
                                (such as terms relating to job 
                                responsibilities or job performance 
                                expectations); and
                                    (VI) any other terms prescribed by 
                                the Secretary.
                          (ii) Standard service agreements.--The 
                      Secretary shall establish standard service 
                      agreements for employing offices to use in 
                      carrying out this section.
            (2) Submission of agreements.--On entering into a
        service agreement under this section, the employing office shall 
        submit a copy of the service agreement to the Secretary.

    (c) Program Conditions.--
            (1) Period of employment.--The term of the required period 
        of employment under a service agreement under this section shall 
        be 1 year. On completion of the required period of employment 
        under such a service agreement, the eligible employee and the 
        employing office may enter into additional service agreements 
        for successive 1-year periods of employment.
            (2) Amount of payments.--
                    (A) In general.--The amount of student loan payments 
                made under service agreements under this section on 
                behalf of an eligible employee may not exceed--
                          (i) $500 in any month; or
                          (ii) a total of $40,000.
                    (B) Payments included in gross compensation 
                limitations.--Any student loan payment made under this 
                section in any month may not result in the sum of the 
                payment and the compensation of an employee for that 
                month exceeding \1/12\th of the applicable annual 
                maximum gross compensation limitation under section 
                105(d)(2), (e), or (f) of the Legislative Branch 
                Appropriation Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(2), (e), or 
                (f)).
            (3) Timing of payments.--Student loan payments made under 
        this section under a service agreement shall begin the first day 
        of the pay period after the date on which the agreement is 
        signed and received by the Secretary, and shall be made on a 
        monthly basis.

[[Page 115 STAT. 565]]

    (d) Loss of Eligibility for Student Loan Payments and Obligation to 
Reimburse.--
            (1) In general.--An employee shall not be eligible for 
        continued student loan payments under a service agreement under 
        this section and (except in a case in which an employee's duty 
        is terminated under paragraph (2) or an employing office assumes 
        responsibilities under paragraph (3)) shall reimburse the Senate 
        for the amount of all student loan payments made on behalf of 
        the employee under the agreement, if, before the employee 
        completes the required period of employment specified in the 
        agreement--
                    (A) the employee voluntarily separates from service 
                with the employing office;
                    (B) the employee engages in misconduct or does not 
                maintain an acceptable level of performance, as 
                determined by the head of the employing office; or
                    (C) the employee violates any condition of the 
                agreement.
            (2) Termination of agreement.--The duty of an eligible 
        employee to fulfill the required period of employment under the 
        service agreement shall be terminated if--
                    (A) funds are not made available to cover the cost 
                of the student loan repayment program carried out under 
                this section; or
                    (B) the employee and the head of the employing 
                office involved mutually agree to terminate the service 
                agreement under subsection (f)(7).
            (3) Another employing office.--An employing office who hires 
        an eligible employee during a required period of employment 
        under such a service agreement may assume the 
        remaining obligations (as of the date of the hiring) of the 
        employee's prior employing office under the agreement.
            (4) Failure of employee to reimburse.--If an eligible 
        employee fails to reimburse the Senate for the amount owed under 
        paragraph (1), such amount shall be collected--
                    (A) under section 104(c) of the Legislative 
                Appropriation Act, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 60c-2a(c)) or section 
                5514 of title 5, United States Code, if the eligible 
                employee is employed by any other office of the Senate 
                or agency of the Federal Government; or
                    (B) under other applicable provisions of law if the 
                eligible employee is not employed by any other office of 
                the Senate or agency of the Federal Government.
            (5) Crediting of amounts.--Any amount repaid by, or 
        recovered from, an eligible employee under this section shall be 
        credited to the subaccount for the employing office from which 
        the amount involved was originally paid. Any amount so credited 
        shall be merged with other sums in such subaccount for the 
        employing office and shall be available for the same purposes, 
        and subject to the same limitations (if any), as the sums with 
        which such amount is merged.

    (e) Records and Reports.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  In general.--Not later than 
        January 1, 2003, and each January 1 thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the Senate,

[[Page 115 STAT. 566]]

        a report for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which 
        the report is submitted, that contains information specifying--
                    (A) the number of eligible employees that received 
                student loan payments under this section; and
                    (B) the costs of such payments, including--
                          (i) the amount of such payments made for each 
                      eligible employee;
                          (ii) the amount of any reimbursement amounts 
                      for early separation from service or whether any 
                      waivers were provided with respect to such 
                      reimbursements; and
                          (iii) any other information determined to be 
                      relevant by the Committee on Rules and 
                      Administration of the Senate or the Committee on 
                      Appropriations of the Senate.
            (2) Confidentiality.--Such report shall not include any 
        information which is considered confidential or could disclose 
        the identity of individual employees or employing offices. 
        Information required to be contained in the report of the 
        Secretary under section 105(a) of the Legislative Branch Act, 
        1965 (2 U.S.C. 104a) shall not be considered to be personal 
        information for purposes of this paragraph.

    (f) Other Administrative Matters.--
            (1) Account.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish and 
                maintain a central account from which student loan 
                payments available under this section shall be paid on 
                behalf of eligible employees.
                    (B) Office subaccounts.--The Secretary shall ensure 
                that, within the account established under subparagraph 
                (A), a separate subaccount is established for each 
                employing office to be used by each such office to make 
                student loan payments under this section. Such student 
                loan payments shall be made from any funds available to 
                the employing office for student loan payments that are 
                contained in the subaccount for the office.
                    (C) Limitation.--Amounts in each subaccount 
                established under this paragraph shall not be made 
                available for any purpose other than to make student 
                loan payments under this section.
            (2) Beginning of payments.--Student loan payments may begin 
        under this section with respect to an eligible employee upon--
                    (A) the receipt by the Secretary of a signed service 
                agreement; and
                    (B) verification by the Secretary with the holder of 
                the loan that the eligible employee has an outstanding 
                student loan balance that qualifies for payment under 
                this section.
            (3) Limitation.--Student loan payments may be made under 
        this section only with respect to the amount of student loan 
        indebtedness of the eligible employee that is outstanding on the 
        date on which the employee and the employing office enter into a 
        service agreement under this section. Such payments may not be 
        made under this section on a student loan that is in default or 
        arrears.

[[Page 115 STAT. 567]]

            (4) Payment on multiple loans.--Student loan payments may be 
        made under this section with respect to more than 1 student loan 
        of an eligible employee at the same time or separately, if the 
        total payments on behalf of such employee do not exceed the 
        limits under subsection (c)(2)(A).
            (5) Treatment of payments.--Student loan payments made on 
        behalf of an eligible employee under this section shall be in 
        addition to any basic pay and other forms of compensation 
        otherwise payable to the eligible employee, and shall be subject 
        to withholding for income and employment tax obligations as 
        provided for by law.
            (6) No relief from liability.--An agreement to make student 
        loan payments under this section shall not exempt an eligible 
        employee from the responsibility or liability of the employee 
        with respect to the loan involved and the eligible employee 
        shall continue to be responsible for making student loan 
        payments on the portion of any loan that is not covered under 
        the terms of the service agreement.
            (7) Reduction in payments.--Notwithstanding the terms of a 
        service agreement under this section, the head of an employing 
        office may reduce the amount of student loan payments made under 
        the agreement if adequate funds are not available to such 
        office. If the head of the employing office decides to reduce 
        the amount of student loan payments for an eligible employee, 
        the head of the office and the employee may mutually agree to 
        terminate the service agreement.
            (8) No right to continued employment.--A service agreement 
        under this section shall not be construed to create a right to, 
        promise of, or entitlement to the continued employment of the 
        eligible employee.
            (9) No entitlement.--A student loan payment under this 
        section shall not be construed to be an entitlement for any 
        eligible employee.
            (10) Treatment of payments.--A student loan payment under 
        this section--
                    (A) shall not be basic pay of an employee for 
                purposes of chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States 
                Code (relating to retirement) and chapter 87 of such 
                title (relating to life insurance coverage); and
                    (B) shall not be included in Federal wages for 
                purposes of chapter 85 of such title (relating to 
                unemployment compensation).

    (g) Allocation of Funds.--
            (1) Maximum amount.--In this subsection, the term ``maximum 
        amount'', used with respect to a fiscal year, means--
                    (A) in the case of an employing office described in 
                subsection (i)(1)(A), the amount described in that 
                subsection for that fiscal year; and
                    (B) in the case of an employing office described in 
                subsection (i)(1)(B), the amount described in that 
                subsection for that fiscal year.
            (2) Allocation.--From the total amount made available to 
        carry out this section for a fiscal year, there shall be 
        allocated to each employing office for that fiscal year--
                    (A) the maximum amount for that employing office for 
                that fiscal year; or

[[Page 115 STAT. 568]]

                    (B) if the total amount is not sufficient to provide 
                the maximum amount to each employing office, an amount 
                that bears the same relationship to the total amount as 
                the maximum amount for that employing office for that 
                fiscal year bears to the total of the maximum amounts 
                for all employing offices for that fiscal year.
            (3) Apportionment.--In the case of an employing office that 
        is a Committee of the Senate, the funds allocated under this 
        subsection shall be apportioned between the majority and 
        minority staff of the committee in the same manner as amounts 
        are apportioned between the staffs for salaries.

    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated (or 
        otherwise made available from appropriations) to carry out this 
        section the following amounts for each fiscal year:
                    (A) For each employing office that is the personal 
                office of a Senator, an amount equal to 2 percent of the 
                total sums appropriated for the fiscal year involved for 
                administrative and clerical salaries for such office.
                    (B) For each other employing office, an amount equal 
                to 2 percent of the total sums appropriated for the 
                fiscal year involved for salaries for such office.
            (2) Limitation.--Amounts provided under this section shall 
        be subject to annual appropriations.

    (i) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply to fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2291 note.>>  (a) Agency contributions for 
employees whose salaries are disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate 
from the appropriations account ``Expenses of the United States Senate 
Caucus on International Narcotics Control'' under the heading 
``Congressional Operations'' shall be paid from the Senate 
appropriations account for ``Salaries, Officers and Employees''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date.>>  This section shall 
apply to pay periods beginning on or after October 1, 2001.

    Sec. 104. (a) Section 5(a) under the subheading ``administrative 
provisions'' under the heading ``SENATE'' under title I of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1996 (2 U.S.C. 58a note) is 
amended by striking ``invoice ends'' and inserting ``invoice begins''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. 2 USC 58a note.>>  The 
amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2001, 
and shall apply to base service periods beginning on or after that date.

    Sec. 105. (a) Section 120 of Public Law 97-51 (2 U.S.C. 61g-6) is 
amended in the first sentence by striking ``$75,000'' and 
inserting ``$100,000''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 61g-6 note. Effective date.>>  This 
section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal 
year thereafter.

    Sec. 106. Effective on and after October 1, 2001, each of the dollar 
amounts contained in the table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) 
shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that table, as adjusted by 
law and in effect on September 30, 2001, increased by an additional 
$50,000 each.
    Sec. 107. Transfers from Senate Gift Shop to Preservation Fund. (a) 
In General.--Section 2(c) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1993 (2 U.S.C. 121d(c)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 569]]

            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) The Secretary of the Senate may transfer from the fund 
        to the Capitol Preservation Fund the net profits (as determined 
        by the Secretary) from sales of items by the Senate Gift Shop 
        which are intended to benefit the Capitol Visitor Center.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date. 2 USC 121d note.>>  
Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply to 
fiscal years beginning before, on, or after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

    Sec. 108. Provisions Relating to Senate Commission on Art. (a) 
Maintenance of Old Supreme Court Chamber.--Section 3 of Senate 
Resolution 382 (90th Congress) (40 U.S.C. 188b-2) is amended by striking 
``insofar as it'' and inserting ``and of the Old Supreme Court Chamber 
insofar as each''.
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Section 5 of Senate Resolution 382 (90th 
Congress) (40 U.S.C. 188b-4) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``the sum of $15,000 each fiscal year,'' and 
        inserting ``such amount as may be necessary each fiscal year,''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the 
        Commission'' and inserting ``the Executive Secretary of the 
        Commission and approved by the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate''.

    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability. 40 USC 188b-2 note. 2 USC 61f-10.>>  
Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall apply to 
fiscal year 2002 and all succeeding fiscal years.

    Sec. 109. Procurement of Temporary Help. (a) In general.--(1) 
Subject to regulations that the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate may prescribe, the Secretary of the Senate and the Sergeant 
at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate may procure temporary help services 
from a private sector source that offers such services. Each procurement 
of services under this subsection shall be for no longer than 30 days.
    (2) A person performing services procured under paragraph (1) shall 
not, during the period of the performance of the services, be an 
employee of the United States or be considered to be an employee of the 
United States for any purpose.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability.>>  This section shall 
take effect on October 1, 2001, and shall apply in fiscal year 2002 and 
successive fiscal years.

    Sec. 110. Section 311(d) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 59e(d)) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph 
(1) by inserting ``in the House, or official expenses for franked mail, 
employee salaries, office space, furniture, or equipment and any 
associated information technology services (excluding handheld 
communications devices) in the Senate'' after ``expenses''.
    Sec. 111. The amount available to the Committee on Rules and 
Administration for expenses under section 14(c) of Senate Resolution 54, 
agreed to March 8, 2001, is increased by $150,000.

SEC. 112. <<NOTE: 5 USC 7905 note.>>  TRANSPORTATION SUBSIDY FOR 
            EMPLOYEES OF THE SENATE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the term--
            (1) ``employee of the Senate''--
                    (A) means any employee whose pay is disbursed by the 
                Secretary of the Senate; and
                    (B) does not include a member or civilian employee 
                of the Capitol Police; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 570]]

            (2) ``employing office'' means the employing office, as 
        defined under section 101 of the Congressional Accountability 
        Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301), of an employee of the Senate.

    (b) Transportation Subsidy.--An employing office may provide a 
monthly transportation subsidy to an employee of the Senate up to the 
maximum monthly amount authorized under section 132(f)(2)(A) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

       Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For <<NOTE: Deborah Williams Spence. Floyd D. Spence Jr. Zacheriah 
W. Spence. Benjamin G. Spence. Caldwell D. Spence.>>  payment to Deborah 
Williams Spence, Floyd D. Spence Jr., Zacheriah W. Spence, Benjamin G. 
Spence and Caldwell D. Spence, widow and children of Floyd Spence, late 
a Representative from the State of South Carolina, $145,100.

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$878,050,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $15,910,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,866,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,830,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $2,224,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,562,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $1,168,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $431,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $806,000; Republican Conference, $1,342,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,435,000; Democratic Caucus, $713,000; 
nine minority employees, $1,293,000; training and program development--
majority, $290,000; training and program development--minority, 
$290,000; Cloakroom Personnel--majority, $330,000; and Cloakroom 
Personnel--minority, $330,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $479,472,000.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $104,514,000: Provided,

[[Page 115 STAT. 571]]

That such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses 
until December 31, 2002.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$23,002,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2002.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $101,766,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $11,000, of which not 
more than $10,000 is for the Family Room, for official representation 
and reception expenses, $15,408,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent 
of Garages, and including not more than $750 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $4,139,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, $67,495,000, of which 
$3,525,000 shall remain available until expended, including $31,510,000 
for salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of House 
Information Resources, of which $31,390,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That of the amount provided for House Information Resources, 
$8,656,000 shall be for net expenses of telecommunications: Provided 
further, That House Information Resources is authorized to receive 
reimbursement from Members of the House of Representatives and other 
governmental entities for services provided and such reimbursement shall 
be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $3,756,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $894,000; for 
the Office of the Chaplain, $144,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, $1,344,000; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $2,107,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the 
House, $5,456,000; for salaries and expenses of the Corrections Calendar 
Office, $883,000; and for other authorized employees, $140,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $157,436,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,379,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $410,000; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $152,957,000; and miscellaneous 
items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of 
House motor vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to 
heirs of deceased employees of the House, $690,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 572]]

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Effective date. Government organization. 2 USC 
74a-7 note.>>  (a) Effective October 1, 2001, the following four 
majority positions shall be transferred from the Clerk to the 
Speaker:
            (1) The position of chief of floor service.
            (2) Two positions of assistant floor chief.
            (3) One position of cloakroom attendant.

    (b) Effective October 1, 2001, the following four minority positions 
shall be transferred from the Clerk to the minority leader:
            (1) The position of chief of floor service.
            (2) Two positions of assistant floor chief.
            (3) One position of cloakroom attendant.

    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an 
individual who is an incumbent of a position transferred under 
subsection (a) or subsection (b) at the time of the transfer, the total 
number of days of annual leave and the total number of days of sick 
leave which were provided by the Clerk to the individual and which 
remain unused as of the date of the transfer shall remain available for 
the individual to use after the transfer.
    Sec. 114. (a) The third sentence of section 104(a)(1) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1987 (as incorporated by 
reference in section 101(j) of Public Law 99-500 and Public Law 99-591) 
(2 U.S.C. 117e(1)) is amended by striking ``for credit to the 
appropriate account'' and all that follows and inserting the following: 
``for credit to the appropriate account of the House of Representatives, 
and shall be available for expenditure in accordance with applicable 
law. For purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of receipts from 
the sale or disposal of any audio or video transcripts prepared by the 
House Recording Studio, the `appropriate account of the House of 
Representatives' shall be the account of the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 117e note.>>  The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 115. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES--
Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational Allowances'' shall be 
available only for fiscal year 2002. Any amount remaining after all 
payments are made under such allowances for fiscal year 2002 shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction (or, if there 
is no Federal budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for 
reducing the Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the 
Treasury considers appropriate).

[[Page 115 STAT. 573]]

    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the House 
of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 116. <<NOTE: 2 USC 60d-1.>>  (a) Day for Paying Salaries of the 
House of Representatives.--The usual day for paying salaries in or under 
the House of Representatives shall be the last day of each month, except 
that if the last day of a month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal 
public holiday, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives shall pay such salaries on the first weekday which 
precedes the last day.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--(1) The first section and section 2 of 
the Joint Resolution entitled ``Joint resolution authorizing the payment 
of salaries of the officers and employees of Congress for December on 
the 20th day of that month each year'', approved May 21, 1937 (2 U.S.C. 
60d and 60e), are each repealed.
    (2) The last paragraph under the heading ``Contingent Expense of the 
House'' in the First Deficiency Appropriation Act, 1946 (2 U.S.C. 60e-
1), is repealed.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability. 2 USC 60d-1 note.>>  Effective Date.--
This section and the amendments made by this section shall apply with 
respect to pay periods beginning after the expiration of the 1-year 
period which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 117. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-12.>>  (a) The aggregate amount 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the lump-
sum allowance for the Office of the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives shall be increased by $40,000.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2002 and each succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: Effective date. Government organization. 2 USC 
75f.>>  (a) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, there are hereby established 2 additional 
positions in each of the following offices of the House of 
Representatives:
            (1) The Office of the Clerk.
            (2) The Office of the Chief Administrative Officer.
            (3) The Office of the Sergeant at Arms.

    (b) The duty of the personnel appointed to a position established 
under this section shall be to ensure the continuity of the operations 
of the House of Representatives during periods of emergency, in 
accordance with the direction of the head of the office in which the 
position is established.
    (c) The annual rate of pay provided for a position established under 
this section shall be determined by the head of the office in which the 
position is established.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the head of the 
office in which a position is established under this section shall have 
the exclusive authority to appoint personnel to such a position.
    Sec. 119. (a) Section 408 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1408) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Appearances by House Employment Counsel.--
            ``(1) In general.--The House Employment Counsel of the House 
        of Representatives and any other counsel in the Office of House 
        Employment Counsel of the House of Representatives,

[[Page 115 STAT. 574]]

        including any counsel specially retained by the Office of House 
        Employment Counsel, shall be entitled, for the purpose of 
        providing legal assistance and representation to employing 
        offices 
        of the House of Representatives under this Act, to enter an 
        appearance in any proceeding before any court of the United 
        States or of any State or political subdivision thereof without 
        compliance with any requirements for admission to practice 
        before such court, except that the authorization conferred by 
        this paragraph shall not apply with respect to the admission of 
        any such person to practice before the United States Supreme 
        Court.
            ``(2) House employment counsel defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term `Office of House Employment Counsel of the House of 
        Representatives' means--
                    ``(A) the Office of House Employment Counsel 
                established and operating under the authority of the 
                Clerk of the House of Representatives as of the date of 
                the enactment of this subsection;
                    ``(B) any successor office to the Office of House 
                Employment Counsel which is established after the date 
                of the enactment of this subsection; and
                    ``(C) any other person authorized and directed in 
                accordance with the Rules of the House of 
                Representatives to provide legal assistance and 
                representation to employing offices of the House of 
                Representatives in connection with actions brought under 
                this title.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date. 2 USC 1408 note.>>  The 
amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to proceedings 
occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,424,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$6,733,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to two assistants and $400 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,253,904 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending

[[Page 115 STAT. 575]]

Physician, which shall be advanced and credited to the applicable 
appropriation or appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, 
and other expenses are payable and shall be available for all the 
purposes thereof, $1,865,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $113,044,000, of which $55,239,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, and $57,805,000 
is provided to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts 
appropriated under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be 
transferred between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives 
and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and $85 per month for 
extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board by an employee of 
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate or the Sergeant at 
Arms of the House of Representatives designated by the Chairman of the 
Board, $13,146,000, to be disbursed by the Capitol Police Board or their 
delegee: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
cost of basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 2002 shall be paid by the 
Secretary of the Treasury from funds available to the Department of the 
Treasury.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 120. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2002 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--

[[Page 115 STAT. 576]]

            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to 
        the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.

    Sec. 121. <<NOTE: 40 USC 206d.>>  At any time on or after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the United States Capitol Police may 
accept contributions of meals and refreshments in support of activities 
of the United States Capitol Police during a period of emergency (as 
determined by the Capitol Police Board).

    Sec. 122. (a) Section 108(a)(4) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2001, as amended by section 507(a) of the Department 
of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (as 
enacted into law by reference in section 101(a) of Public Law 106-
346), <<NOTE: 40 USC 206a-9.>>  is amended by striking ``the Capitol 
Police Board'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``the 
Chief of the Capitol Police, but not to exceed $1,000 less than the 
annual rate of pay for the Chief of the Capitol Police.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date. 40 USC 206a-9 note.>>  
The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to pay 
periods beginning on or after October 1, 2001.

    Sec. 123. Any obligation or expenditure of funds made prior to the 
date of enactment of this Act by the House of Representatives or the 
Capitol Police Board for meals, refreshments, and other support and 
maintenance in response to a biological or other threat made after 
September 11, 2001 shall be deemed to have been made in compliance with 
sections 1301 and 1341 of title 31, United States Code.
    Sec. 124. <<NOTE: 40 USC 206e.>>  At any time on or after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Capitol Police Board may incur obligations 
and make expenditures out of available appropriations for meals, 
refreshments and other support and maintenance for the Capitol Police 
when, in the judgment of the Capitol Police Board, such obligations and 
expenditures are necessary to respond to emergencies involving the 
safety of human life or the protection of property.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $2,512,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than 43 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board is 
authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two additional 
individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more than 10 
additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the Capitol 
Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the One Hundred Seventh Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of

[[Page 115 STAT. 577]]

the regular appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid 
to the persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to 
supervise the work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,059,000, of which $254,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2003.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $3,000 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $30,780,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 125. <<NOTE: 2 USC 609.>>  (a) The Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office may, by regulation, make applicable such 
provisions of chapter 41 of title 5, United States Code, as the Director 
determines necessary to provide hereafter for training of individuals 
employed by the Congressional Budget Office.

    (b) The implementing regulations shall provide for training that, in 
the determination of the Director, is consistent with the training 
provided by agencies subject to chapter 41 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (c) Any recovery of debt owed to the Congressional Budget Office 
under this section and its implementing regulations shall be credited to 
the appropriations account available for salaries and expenses of the 
Office at the time of recovery.
    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply to fiscal 
year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter.

    Sec. 126. Section 105(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1997 (2 U.S.C. 606(a)), is amended by striking ``or discarding.'' 
and inserting ``sale, trade-in, or discarding.'', and by 
adding at the end the following: ``Amounts received for the sale 
or trade-in of personal property shall be credited to funds available 
for the operations of the Congressional Budget Office and be available 
for the costs of acquiring the same or similar property. Such 
funds shall be available for such purposes during the fiscal year 
in which received and the following fiscal year.''.
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: 2 USC 610.>>  (a) The Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office may, in order to recruit or retain qualified 
personnel, establish and maintain hereafter a program under which the 
Office may agree to repay (by direct payments on behalf of the employee) 
all or a portion of any student loan previously taken out by such 
employee.

[[Page 115 STAT. 578]]

    (b) The Director may, by regulation, make applicable such provisions 
of section 5379 of title 5, United States Code as the Director 
determines necessary to provide for such program.
    (c) The regulations shall provide the amount paid by the Office may 
not exceed--
            (1) $6,000 for any employee in any calendar year; or
            (2) a total of $40,000 in the case of any employee.

    (d) The Office may not reimburse an employee for any repayments made 
by such employee prior to the Office entering into an agreement under 
this section with such employee.
    (e) Any amount repaid by, or recovered from, an individual under 
this section and its implementing regulations shall be credited to the 
appropriation account available for salaries and expenses of the Office 
at the time of repayment or recovery.
    (f) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  This section shall apply to fiscal 
year 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                         general administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the general and administrative support of the operations 
under the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic Garden; 
electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House office 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Architect 
of the Capitol; including furnishings and office equipment; including 
not more than $1,000 for official reception and representation expenses, 
to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; for purchase 
or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger motor vehicle; 
and not to exceed $20,000 for attendance, when specifically authorized 
by the Architect of the Capitol, at meetings or conventions in 
connection with subjects related to work under the Architect of the 
Capitol, $51,371,000, of which $3,026,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2006.

                            capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $15,194,000, of which $3,080,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2006.

                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $6,009,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 579]]

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$42,126,000, of which $3,760,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2006.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $54,006,000, of which $23,344,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2006.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $52,583,000, of which $8,013,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2006: Provided, That not more than $4,400,000 of the 
funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2002.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: 40 USC 174b-1 note.>>  Acquisition of Property by 
Architect of the Capitol.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Architect of the 
Capitol is authorized to secure, through multi-year rental, lease, or 
other appropriate agreement, the property located at 67 K Street, S.W., 
Washington, D.C., for use of Legislative Branch agencies, and to incur 
any necessary incidental expenses including maintenance, alterations, 
and repairs in connection therewith: Provided, That in connection with 
the property referred to under the preceding proviso, the Architect of 
the Capitol is authorized to expend funds appropriated to the Architect 
of the Capitol for the purpose of the operations and support of 
Legislative Branch agencies, including the United States Capitol Police, 
as may be required for that purpose.

    Sec. 129. (a) Compensation of Architect of the Capitol.--Section 
203(c) of the Federal Legislative Salary Act of 1964 (40 U.S.C. 162a) is 
amended by striking ``the annual rate of basic pay'' and all that 
follows and inserting the following: ``the lesser of the annual salary 
for the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives or the annual 
salary for the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.''.

[[Page 115 STAT. 580]]

    (b) <<NOTE: 40 USC 166b-3a note.>>  Compensation of Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol.--Pursuant to the authority described in 
section 308(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1988 (40 
U.S.C. 166b-3a(a)), the pay for the position of assistant referred to in 
the proviso in the first undesignated paragraph under the center 
subheadings ``Office of the Architect of the Capitol'' and ``salaries'' 
in the first section of the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1971 
(40 U.S.C. 164a) shall be an amount equal to $1,000 less than the annual 
rate of pay for the Architect of the Capitol.

    (c) Compensation for Certain Other Positions.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with the authority described 
        in section 308(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
        1988 (40 U.S.C. 166b-3a(a)), section 108 of the Legislative 
        Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 (40 U.S.C. 166b-3b) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and 
                inserting the following:

    ``(a) The Architect of the Capitol may fix the rate of basic pay for 
not more than 12 positions at a rate not to exceed the highest total 
rate of pay for the Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of 
chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, for the locality involved.''; 
and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b).
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability. 40 USC 166b-3b note.>>  Effective 
        date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply with 
        respect to pay periods beginning on or after the expiration of 
        the 21-day period which begins on the date the Architect of the 
        Capitol submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives and Senate a list containing the 12 positions 
        for which the Architect will fix the rate of basic pay under the 
        amendment, the rate of basic pay for each such position, and the 
        job description for each such position.

    (d) Comprehensive Management Study and Response.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline. 40 USC 162 note.>>  Study by 
        comptroller general.--Not later than November 1, 2002, the 
        Comptroller General shall conduct a comprehensive management 
        study of the operations of the Architect of the Capitol, and 
        submit the study to the Architect of the Capitol and the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
        Senate.
            (2) Plan by architect in response.--After the Comptroller 
        General submits the study conducted under paragraph 
        (1) to the Committees referred to in such paragraph, the 
        Architect of the Capitol shall develop and submit to such 
        Committees a management improvement plan which addresses 
        the study and which indicates how the personnel for whom 
        the Architect fixes the rate of basic pay under the amendment 
        made by subsection (c)(1) will support such plan.

    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability. 40 USC 162a note.>>  Effective Date.--
Except as provided in subsections (c)(2) and (d), this section and the 
amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to pay periods 
beginning on or after October 1, 2001.

    Sec. 130. <<NOTE: 40 USC 166j.>>  (a) Liquidated Damages.--The 
Architect of the Capitol may not enter into or administer any 
construction contract with a value greater than $50,000 unless the 
contract includes a provision requiring the payment of liquidated 
damages in the amount determined under subsection (b) in the event that 
completion of the project is delayed because of the contractor.

[[Page 115 STAT. 581]]

    (b) Amount of Payment.--The amount of payment required under a 
liquidated damages provision described in subsection (a) shall be equal 
to the product of--
            (1) the daily liquidated damage payment rate; and
            (2) the number of days by which the completion of the 
        project is delayed.

    (c) Daily Liquidated Damage Payment Rate.--
            (1) In general.--In subsection (b), the ``daily liquidated 
        damage payment rate'' means--
                    (A) $140, in the case of a contract with a value 
                greater than $50,000 and less than $100,000;
                    (B) $200, in the case of a contract with a value 
                equal to or greater than $100,000 and equal to or less 
                than $500,000; and
                    (C) the sum of $200 plus $50 for each $100,000 
                increment by which the value of the contract exceeds 
                $500,000, in the case of a contract with a value greater 
                than $500,000.
            (2) Adjustment in rate permitted.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
        (1), the daily liquidated damage payment rate may be adjusted by 
        the contracting officer involved to a rate greater or lesser 
        than the rate described in such paragraph if the contracting 
        officer makes a written determination that the rate described 
        does not accurately reflect the anticipated damages which will 
        be suffered by the United States as a result of the delay in the 
        completion of the contract.

    (d) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Effective Date.--This section shall 
apply with respect to contracts entered into during fiscal year 2002 or 
any succeeding fiscal year.

    Sec. 131. <<NOTE: Applicability. 40 USC 162 note.>>  Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law: (1) section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 
U.S.C. 5) shall apply with respect to purchases and contracts for the 
Architect of the Capitol as if the reference to ``$25,000'' in clause I 
of such section were a reference to ``$100,000''; and (2) the Architect 
may procure services, equipment, and construction for security related 
projects in the most efficient manner he determines appropriate.

    Sec. 132. <<NOTE: 40 USC 162 note.>>  Accounting and Financial 
Management System. The Architect of the Capitol shall develop and 
maintain an 
accounting and financial management system, including financial 
reporting and internal controls, which--
            (1) complies with applicable federal accounting principles, 
        standards, and requirements, and internal control standards;
            (2) complies with any other requirements applicable to such 
        systems; and
            (3) provides for--
                    (A) complete, reliable, consistent, and timely 
                information which is prepared on a uniform basis and 
                which is responsive to financial information needs of 
                the Architect of the Capitol;
                    (B) the development and reporting of cost 
                information;
                    (C) the integration of accounting and budgeting 
                information; and
                    (D) the systematic measurement of performance.

    Sec. 133. (a) Limitation.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
none of the funds provided by this Act or any other Act may be used by 
the Architect of the Capitol after the expiration of the 90-day period 
which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act to employ any 
individual as a temporary employee within

[[Page 115 STAT. 582]]

a category of temporary employment which does not provide 
employees with the same eligibility for life insurance, health 
insurance, retirement, and other benefits which is provided to temporary 
employees who are hired for a period exceeding 1 year in length.
    (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to any of the 
following individuals:
            (A) An individual who is employed under the Architect of the 
        Capitol Summer Employment Program.
            (B) An individual who is hired for a total of 120 days or 
        less during any 5-year period (excluding any days in which the 
        individual is employed under the Architect of the Capitol Summer 
        Employment Program).
            (C) An individual employed by the Architect of the Capitol 
        as a temporary employee as of the date of the enactment of this 
        Act who exercises in writing, not later than 90 days after such 
        date, an option offered by the Architect to remain under the pay 
        system (including benefits) provided for the individual as of 
        such date.
            (D) An individual who becomes employed by the Architect of 
        the Capitol after the date of the enactment of this Act who 
        exercises in writing, prior to the individual's employment, an 
        option offered by the Architect to receive pay and benefits 
        under an alternative system which does not provide the benefits 
        described in paragraph (1), except that under such an option the 
        Architect shall be required to provide the individual with the 
        benefits described in paragraph (1) as soon as the individual's 
        period of service as a temporary employee exceeds 1 year in 
        length.

    (3) Nothing in this subsection may be construed to require the 
Architect of the Capitol to provide duplicative benefits for any 
employee.
    (b) Allotment and Assignment of Pay.--(1) Section 5525 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``For purposes of this section, the term `agency' includes the 
Office of the Architect of the Capitol.''.
    (2) <<NOTE: Applicability. Effective date. 5 USC 5525 note.>>  The 
amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to pay periods 
beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 134. <<NOTE: 40 USC 217c.>>  Congressional Award Youth Park. 
(a) Designation.--The parcel of approximately 5 acres of land located on 
the Capitol Grounds and described in subsection (b) shall be known and 
designated as the ``Congressional Award Youth Park''.

    (b) Area Included.--
            (1) In general.--The parcel of land described in subsection 
        (a) is--
                    (A) bounded on the north by Constitution Avenue, 
                N.W.;
                    (B) bounded on the east by First Street, N.W.;
                    (C) bounded on the south by Pennsylvania Avenue, 
                N.W.; and
                    (D) bounded on the west by Third Street N.W.
            (2) Extension.--The park shall extend to the curbs of the 
        streets described in paragraph (1).

    (c) Design.--
            (1) Competition.--The Architect of the Capitol shall sponsor 
        a competition for the design of the park, based on 
        specifications developed by the Architect.

[[Page 115 STAT. 583]]

            (2) Specifications.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 
                June 30, 2002, the Architect, in consultation with the 
                majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate, 
                and the Speaker and the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives, shall develop the specifications for 
                the park.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                          (i) In general.--The specifications shall 
                      require an outdoor design that is accessible to 
                      the public.
                          (ii) Inclusions.--To the maximum extent 
                      practicable, the specifications shall include 
                      requirements for--
                                    (I) a fountain;
                                    (II) extensive use of trees and 
                                flowering plants from each of the 50 
                                States;
                                    (III) large-scale replicas of the 
                                medals awarded under the Congressional 
                                Award Program; and
                                    (IV) the inscription of the names of 
                                all Congressional Award recipients.
            (3) Selection.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                competition is completed, the Architect shall forward at 
                least 3 designs, with recommendations, to the United 
                States Capitol Preservation Commission.
                    (B) Final selection.--The United States Capitol 
                Preservation Commission shall select and approve the 
                final design from among the 3 designs submitted under 
                subparagraph (A).

    (d) Funding.--Funds otherwise made available to the Architect of the 
Capitol under this Act shall be available to carry out this section.
    Sec. 135. Limitation on Certain Gifts and Expenditures Relating to 
the National Garden. Section 201 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (40 U.S.C. 216c note) is amended by striking 
``$14,500,000'' each place it appears and inserting ``$16,500,000''.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$81,454,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate.

[[Page 115 STAT. 584]]

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States Code); 
printing and binding of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $81,000,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year limitation 
under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of the funds 
appropriated or made available under this Act or any other Act for 
printing and binding and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print a 
document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or 
accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be 
transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving fund for 
carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2002''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $5,646,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for any activities of the National 
Garden.

[[Page 115 STAT. 585]]

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and maintenance 
of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $306,692,000, of which not 
more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2002, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from collections 
during fiscal year 2002 and shall remain available until expended for 
the development and maintenance of an international legal information 
database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the Library of 
Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount 
by which collections are less than the $6,850,000: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $15,824,474 is to remain 
available until expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, 
newspapers, and all other materials including subscriptions for 
bibliographic services for the Library, including $40,000 to be 
available solely for the purchase, when specifically approved by the 
Librarian, of special and unique materials for additions to the 
collections: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$1,517,903 is to remain available until expended for the acquisition and 
partial support for implementation of an Integrated Library System 
(ILS): Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$7,100,000 is to remain available until expended for the purpose of 
teaching educators how to incorporate the Library's digital collections 
into school curricula and shall be transferred to the educational 
consortium formed to conduct the ``Joining Hands Across America: Local 
Community Initiative'' project as approved by the Library: Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated, $500,000 shall be transferred 
to the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission to remain available until 
expended for carrying out the purposes of Public Law 106-173, of which 
amount $3,000 may be used for official representation and reception 
expenses of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $40,896,000, of 
which not more than $21,880,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2002 under section 708(d) of title 17,

[[Page 115 STAT. 586]]

United States Code: Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate 
or expend any funds derived from collections under such section, in 
excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in 
appropriations Acts: Provided further, That not more than $5,984,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2002 under sections 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005 of such title: Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $27,864,000: Provided further, 
That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for 
the maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the 
Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training 
nationals of developing countries in intellectual property laws and 
policies: Provided further, That not more than $4,250 may be expended, 
on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $49,788,000, of which 
$14,437,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and repair of furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, 
$7,932,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $300,000, of 
which $75,000 is for the Congressional Research 
Service, when specifically authorized by the Librarian of Congress, for 
attendance at meetings concerned with the function or activity for which 
the appropriation is made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
            (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
            (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
        work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
        the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a)(10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead 
costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies under 
the authority of sections 1535 and 1536

[[Page 115 STAT. 587]]

of title 31, United States Code, shall not be used to employ more than 
65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or
                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 204. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 206. (a) For fiscal year 2002, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $114,473,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the legislative 
branch.
    (c) For fiscal year 2002, the Librarian of Congress may temporarily 
transfer funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``LIBRARY OF 
CONGRESS--Salaries and Expenses'' to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK 
Program and the Federal Research Program established under section 103 
of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total amount of 
such transfers may not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, That the 
appropriate revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any 
amounts transferred to it before the period of availability of the 
Library appropriation expires.
    Sec. 207. Section 101 of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations 
Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182a) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``AUDIO AND VIDEO''; and
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``audio and video''.

    Sec. 208. (a) Section 102(a) of the Library of Congress Fiscal 
Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (2 U.S.C. 182b(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Special events and programs.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Reports. 2 USC 182b note.>>  The 
amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect upon the date on 
which the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and Senate approve a report submitted to the Committees by the Librarian 
of Congress which describes the guidelines and policies applicable to 
the hosting of special events and programs by the Librarian which are 
covered under

[[Page 115 STAT. 588]]

section 102(a)(4) of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations 
Improvement Act of 2000 (as added by subsection (a)).

    Sec. 209. Section 7 of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission 
Act, Public Law 106-173, <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 101.>>  is amended by 
adding the following new subsections:

    ``(f) Gifts.--The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this Act, accept and use gifts of money, property, and services, and, 
notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, may accept 
and use voluntary services as the Commission deems necessary.
    ``(g) Detail of Federal Employees.--On the request of the 
Commission, the head of a Federal agency or other Federal 
appointing authority may detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimburs-
able basis, any of its employees to the Commission to assist the 
Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission under 
this Act. Any such detail of an employee shall be without interruption 
or loss of civil service status or privilege.''.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For an additional amount for the unassigned space in the Capitol 
Visitor Center project, $70,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States 
(41 U.S.C. 5) shall not apply to the funds made available under this 
heading: Provided further, That the Architect of the Capitol may not 
obligate any of the funds which are made available for the Capitol 
Visitor Center under this Act or any other Act without an obligation 
plan approved by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives for House space and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate for Senate space.

                         Congressional Cemetery

    For the perpetual care and maintenance of the historic Congressional 
Cemetery, $1,250,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$1,000,000 of such amount shall be paid to the National Trust for 
Historic Preservation (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as the 
``National Trust'') for deposit into the permanently restricted account 
referred to in section 209(b) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-275; 112 Stat. 2449) and shall be used by the 
National Trust in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable 
under such section to amounts deposited into such account: Provided 
further, That $250,000 of such amount shall be for the preparation of a 
study to develop a program for the ongoing care and maintenance of the 
Cemetery.

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$21,753,000, of which $3,748,000 shall remain available

[[Page 115 STAT. 589]]

until September 30, 2006 and $5,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,639,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $175,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 2000 and 
2001 to depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, 
That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts 
for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to 
the Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the 
purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or 
purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, 
That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory 
councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out 
the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That 
the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund and the 
funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available 
for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,260 workyears (or 
such other number of workyears as the Public Printer may request, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives): Provided

[[Page 115 STAT. 590]]

further, That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format: Provided further, That the revolving fund 
shall not be used to administer any flexible or compressed work schedule 
which applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade or 
level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That 
expenses for attendance at meetings shall not exceed $75,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    extension of early retirement and voluntary separation incentive 
                            payments for gpo

    Sec. 210. (a) Section 309 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (44 U.S.C. 305 note), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking ``October 1, 2001'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 2004''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``September 30, 2001'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2004''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 44 USC 305 note.>>  The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1999.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
sections 901(5), 901(6), and 901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), and 4081(8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $421,844,000: Provided, That not 
more than $1,751,000 of payments received under section 782 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal year 2002: 
Provided further, That not more than $750,000 of reimbursements received 
under section 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be available 
for use in fiscal year 2002: Provided further, That this appropriation 
and appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department 
or agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may 
be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International

[[Page 115 STAT. 591]]

Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including 
any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International 
Institute of Administrative Sciences.

     PAYMENT TO THE RUSSIAN LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Russian Leadership Development Center Trust 
Fund for financing activities of the Center for Russian Leadership 
Development, $8,000,000.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2002 unless expressly so 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in 
this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a 
matter of public record and available for public inspection, except 
where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
order issued pursuant to existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>>  In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.

[[Page 115 STAT. 592]]

    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by 
charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate 
share of LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except 
that the total LBFMC costs to be shared among all participating 
legislative branch entities (in such allocations among the entities 
as the entities may determine) may not exceed $252,000.
    Sec. 308. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 <<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-
6.>>  is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking 
``2001'' and inserting ``2002''.

    Sec. 309. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Section 5596(a) of title 5, 
U.S.C., is amended by deleting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4); by 
deleting the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting a 
semicolon, and by adding the following new paragraphs, which shall be 
effective for all personnel actions taken on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act:
            ``(6) the Architect of the Capitol, including employees of 
        the United States Senate Restaurants; and
            ``(7) the United States Botanic Garden.''.

    Sec. 310. Section 4(b) of the House Employees Position 
Classification Act (2 U.S.C. 293(b)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, for 
purposes of applying the adjustment made by the committee under this 
subsection for 2002 and each succeeding year, positions under the Chief 
Administrative Officer shall include positions of the United States 
Capitol telephone exchange under the Chief Administrative Officer.''.
    Sec. 311. The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets and sidewalks, in the irregular 
shaped grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, 
Second Street SW on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning 
of the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.
    Sec. 312. No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).

    Approved November 12, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2647 (S. 1172):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-169 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-259 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-37 accompanying S. 1172 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            July 31, considered and passed House; passed Senate, 
                amended,
            in lieu of S. 1172.
            Nov. 1, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            Nov. 12, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>