[107th Congress Public Law 345]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ345.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 2894]]

Public Law 107-345
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To amend title 10, United States Code, to make receipts collected from 
mineral leasing activities on certain naval oil shale reserves available 
to cover environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental 
   compliance costs incurred by the United States with respect to the 
            reserves. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 2002 -  [H.R. 2187]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. USE OF RECEIPTS FROM MINERAL LEASING ACTIVITIES ON CERTAIN 
            NAVAL OIL SHALE RESERVES.

    Section 7439 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)(1), by striking the second sentence; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(g) Use of Receipts.--(1) The Secretary of the Interior may use, 
without further appropriation, not more than $1,500,000 of the moneys 
covered into the Treasury under subsection (f)(1) to cover the cost of 
any additional analysis, site characterization, and geotechnical studies 
deemed necessary by the Secretary to support environmental restoration, 
waste management, or environmental compliance with respect to Oil Shale 
Reserve Numbered 3. <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Upon the completion of such 
studies, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress a report 
containing--
            ``(A) the results and conclusions of such studies; and
            ``(B) an estimate of the total cost of the Secretary's 
        preferred alternative to address environmental restoration, 
        waste management, and environmental compliance needs at Oil 
        Shale Reserve Numbered 3.

    ``(2) If the cost estimate required by paragraph (1)(B) does not 
exceed the total of the moneys covered into the Treasury under 
subsection (f)(1) and remaining available for obligation as of the date 
of submission of the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the 
Interior may access such moneys, beginning 60 days after submission of 
the report and without further appropriation, to cover the costs of 
implementing the preferred alternative to address environmental 
restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance needs at Oil 
Shale Reserve Numbered 3. If the cost estimate exceeds such available 
moneys, the Secretary of the 


[[Page 116 STAT. 2895]]

Interior may only access such moneys as authorized by subsequent Act of 
Congress.''.

    Approved December 17, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2187:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-202, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Dec. 18, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Nov. 20, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>