[107th Congress Public Law 77]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ077.107]


[[Page 747]]

DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE, JUSTICE, AND STATE, THE JUDICIARY, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2002

[[Page 115 STAT. 748]]

Public Law 107-77
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
 State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2002, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 28, 
                         2001 -  [H.R. 2500]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002. Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 
2002.>>  That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2002, and for other purposes, namely:

                     TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $91,668,000, of which not to exceed $3,317,000 is for the 
Facilities Program 2000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed 43 permanent positions and 44 full-time equivalent 
workyears and $8,451,000 shall be expended for the Department Leadership 
Program exclusive of augmentation that occurred in these offices in 
fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That not to exceed 41 permanent 
positions and 48 full-time equivalent workyears and $4,997,000 shall be 
expended for the Offices of Legislative Affairs and Public Affairs: 
Provided further, That the latter two aforementioned offices may utilize 
non-reimbursable details of career employees within the caps described 
in the preceding proviso: Provided further, That the Attorney General is 
authorized to transfer, under such terms and conditions as the Attorney 
General shall specify, forfeited real or personal property of limited or 
marginal value, as such value is determined by guidelines established by 
the Attorney General, to a State or local government agency, or its 
designated contractor or transferee, for use to support drug abuse 
treatment, drug and crime prevention and education, housing, job skills, 
and other community-based public health and safety programs: Provided 
further, That any transfer under the preceding proviso shall not create 
or confer any private right of action in any person against the United 
States, and shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 of 
this Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 749]]

                     joint automated booking system

    For expenses necessary for the nationwide deployment of a Joint 
Automated Booking System including automated capability to transmit 
fingerprint and image data, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        narrowband communications

    For the costs of conversion to narrowband communications, including 
the cost for operation and maintenance of Land Mobile Radio legacy 
systems, $94,615,000, to remain available until expended.

                          counterterrorism fund

    For necessary expenses, as determined by the Attorney General, 
$4,989,000, to remain available until expended, to reimburse any 
Department of Justice organization for: (1) the costs incurred in 
reestablishing the operational capability of an office or facility which 
has been damaged or destroyed as a result of any domestic or 
international terrorist incident; and (2) the costs of providing support 
to counter, investigate or prosecute domestic or international 
terrorism, including payment of rewards in connection with these 
activities: Provided, That any Federal agency may be reimbursed for the 
costs of detaining in foreign countries individuals accused of acts of 
terrorism that violate the laws of the United 
States: <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Provided further, That funds provided 
under this paragraph shall be available only after the Attorney General 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 605 of this 
Act.

                    administrative review and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and clemency 
petitions and immigration-related activities, $173,647,000.

                            detention trustee

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Detention Trustee who shall 
exercise all power and functions authorized by law relating to the 
detention of Federal prisoners in non-Federal institutions or otherwise 
in the custody of the United States Marshals Service; and the detention 
of aliens in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
$1,000,000: Provided, That the Trustee shall be responsible for 
overseeing construction of detention facilities or for housing related 
to such detention; the management of funds appropriated to the 
Department for the exercise of any detention functions; and the 
direction of the United States Marshals Service and Immigration and 
Naturalization Service with respect to the exercise of detention policy 
setting and operations for the Department.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $50,735,000; including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character, to be expended under the 
direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the

[[Page 115 STAT. 750]]

certificate of, the Attorney General; and for the acquisition, lease, 
maintenance, and operation of motor vehicles, without regard to the 
general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year.

                     United States Parole Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized by law, $9,876,000.

                            Legal Activities

             salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department of 
Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 for 
expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction of, 
and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney 
General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the District 
of Columbia, $549,176,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 for 
litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $1,000 
shall be available to the United States National Central Bureau, 
INTERPOL, for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for litigation activities of the Civil 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries 
and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations 
for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be 
necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to the previous proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, as amended, not to exceed $4,028,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                   legal activities office automation

    For necessary office-automation expenses of organizations funded 
under the headings ``Salaries and Expenses'', General Legal Activities, 
and ``Salaries and Expenses'', General Administration, and of the United 
States Attorneys, the United States Marshals Service, the Antitrust 
Division, the United States Trustee Program, the Executive Office for 
Immigration Review, and the Community Relations Service, $15,765,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $130,791,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, not to exceed $130,791,000 of offsetting collections derived 
from fees collected for premerger notification

[[Page 115 STAT. 751]]

filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 
(15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, shall be retained 
and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2002, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
not more than $0.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,353,968,000; of which not to exceed $2,500,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2003, for: (1) training personnel in debt 
collection; (2) locating debtors and their property; (3) paying the net 
costs of selling property; and (4) tracking debts owed to the United 
States Government: Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $8,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$10,000,000 of those funds available for automated litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $2,500,000 for the operation of the National Advocacy 
Center shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That, in 
addition to reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the 
Offices of the United States Attorneys, not to exceed 9,571 positions 
and 9,776 full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the 
funds appropriated in this Act for the United States Attorneys: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Attorney 
General shall transfer to the Department of Justice Working Capital 
Fund, unobligated, all unexpended funds appropriated by the first 
heading of chapter 2 of title II of division B of Public Law 106-246 and 
by section 202 of division A of appendix H.R. 5666 of Public Law 106-
554: Provided further, That the fourth proviso under the heading 
``Salaries and Expenses, United States Attorneys'' in title I of H.R. 
3421 of the 106th Congress, as enacted by section 1000(a)(1) of Public 
Law 106-113 shall apply to amounts made available under this heading for 
fiscal year 2002.

                    united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 589a(a), $147,000,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System Fund: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to 
the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $147,000,000 of offsetting collections pursuant 
to 28 U.S.C. 589a(b) shall be retained and used for necessary expenses 
in this appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced 
as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2002, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the Fund 
estimated at $0.

[[Page 115 STAT. 752]]

       salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, $1,136,000.

          salaries and expenses, united states marshals service

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of 
vehicles, and the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for police-type 
use, without regard to the general purchase price limitation for the 
current fiscal year, $619,429,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses; and of 
which not to exceed $4,000,000 for development, implementation, 
maintenance and support, and training for an automated prisoner 
information system shall remain available until expended: Provided, 
That, in addition to reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears 
available to the United States Marshals Service, not to exceed 4,128 
positions and 3,993 full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported 
from the funds appropriated in this Act for the United States Marshals 
Service.
    In addition, for the costs of courthouse security equipment, 
including furnishings, relocations, and telephone systems and cabling, 
$14,267,000, to remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For planning, constructing, renovating, equipping, and maintaining 
United States Marshals Service prisoner-holding space in United States 
courthouses and Federal buildings, including the renovation and 
expansion of prisoner movement areas, elevators, and sallyports, 
$15,000,000 to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

    For expenses, related to United States prisoners in the custody of 
the United States Marshals Service, but not including expenses otherwise 
provided for in appropriations available to the Attorney General, 
$706,182,000, to remain available until expended.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For expenses, mileage, compensation, and per diems of witnesses, for 
expenses of contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert 
witnesses, for private counsel expenses, and for per diems in lieu of 
subsistence, as authorized by law, including advances, $156,145,000, to 
remain available until expended; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 may 
be made available for planning, construction, renovations, maintenance, 
remodeling, and repair of buildings, and the purchase of equipment 
incident thereto, for protected witness safesites; of which not to 
exceed $1,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and maintenance 
of armored vehicles for transportation of protected witnesses; and of 
which not to exceed $5,000,000 may be made available for the purchase, 
installation, and maintenance of secure telecommunications equipment and 
a secure automated information network to store and retrieve the 
identities and locations of protected witnesses.

[[Page 115 STAT. 753]]

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$9,269,000 and, in addition, up to $1,000,000 of funds made available to 
the Department of Justice in this Act may be transferred by the Attorney 
General to this account: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, upon a determination by the Attorney General that 
emergent circumstances require additional funding for conflict 
prevention and resolution activities of the Community Relations Service, 
the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community 
Relations Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal 
year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to 
such circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 605 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. 524(c)(1)(A)(ii), (B), (F), and 
(G), as amended, $22,949,000, to be derived from the Department of 
Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     Radiation Exposure Compensation

                         administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses in accordance with the 
Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, $1,996,000.

                       Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the detection, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug trafficking 
not otherwise provided for, to include inter-governmental agreements 
with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime 
drug trafficking, $338,577,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this appropriation: 
Provided further, That any unobligated balances remaining available at 
the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the Attorney General for 
reallocation among participating organizations in succeeding fiscal 
years, subject to the reprogramming procedures set forth in section 605 
of this Act.

                     Federal Bureau of Investigation

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States; including purchase for police-type use of not to exceed 1,354 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 1,190 will be for replacement only, 
without regard to the general purchase price

[[Page 115 STAT. 754]]

limitation for the current fiscal year, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; 
and not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be 
accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General, 
$3,491,073,000; of which not to exceed $50,000,000 for automated data 
processing and telecommunications and technical investigative equipment 
and not to exceed $1,000,000 for undercover operations shall remain 
available until September 30, 2003; of which not less than $459,243,000 
shall be for counterterrorism investigations, foreign 
counterintelligence, and other activities related to our national 
security; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 is authorized to be made 
available for making advances for expenses arising out of contractual or 
reimbursable agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies 
while engaged in cooperative activities related to violent crime, 
terrorism, organized crime, and drug investigations: Provided, That not 
to exceed $45,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $53,000 shall be available only to 
reimburse Acadian Ambulance & Air Med Services for costs incurred during 
the December 1999 prison riot in St. Martin Parish Correctional Center, 
St. Martin Parish, Louisiana: Provided further, That, in addition to 
reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, not to exceed 24,935 positions and 24,488 full-
time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds appropriated 
in this Act for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to construct or acquire buildings and sites 
by purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law (including equipment for 
such buildings); conversion and extension of federally-owned buildings; 
and preliminary planning and design of projects; $33,791,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     Drug Enforcement Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be 
accounted for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; 
expenses for conducting drug education and training programs, including 
travel and related expenses for participants in such programs and the 
distribution of items of token value that promote the goals of such 
programs; purchase of not to exceed 1,477 passenger motor vehicles, of 
which 1,354 will be for replacement only, for police-type use without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year; and acquisition, lease, maintenance, and operation of aircraft, 
$1,481,783,000; of which $33,000,000 for permanent change of station 
shall remain available until September 30, 2003; of which not to exceed 
$1,800,000 for research shall remain available until expended, and of 
which not to exceed $4,000,000 for purchase of evidence and payments for 
information, not to exceed $10,000,000

[[Page 115 STAT. 755]]

for contracting for automated data processing and telecommunications 
equipment, and not to exceed $2,000,000 for laboratory equipment, 
$4,000,000 for technical equipment, and $2,000,000 for aircraft 
replacement retrofit and parts, shall remain available until September 
30, 2003; of which not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided, That, in addition to 
reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears available to the Drug 
Enforcement Administration, not to exceed 7,654 positions and 7,515 
full-time equivalent workyears shall be supported from the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Drug Enforcement Administration.

                 Immigration and Naturalization Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration and enforcement of the 
laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and alien registration, as 
follows:

                     enforcement and border affairs

    For salaries and expenses for the Border Patrol program, the 
detention and deportation program, the intelligence program, the 
investigations program, and the inspections program, including not to 
exceed $50,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential 
character, to be expended under the direction of, and to be accounted 
for solely under the certificate of, the Attorney General; purchase for 
police-type use (not to exceed 3,165 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
2,211 are for replacement only), without regard to the general purchase 
price limitation for the current fiscal year, and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; acquisition, lease, maintenance and operation of 
aircraft; research related to immigration enforcement; for protecting 
and maintaining the integrity of the borders of the United States 
including, without limitation, equipping, maintaining, and making 
improvements to the infrastructure; and for the care and housing of 
Federal detainees held in the joint Immigration and Naturalization 
Service and United States Marshals Service Buffalo Detention Facility, 
$2,739,695,000; of which not to exceed $5,000,000 is for payments or 
advances arising out of contractual or reimbursable agreements with 
State and local law enforcement agencies while engaged in cooperative 
activities related to immigration; of which not to exceed $5,000,000 is 
to fund or reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs associated 
with the care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled illegal aliens: 
Provided, That none of the funds available to the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service shall be available to pay any employee overtime 
pay in an amount in excess of $30,000 during the calendar year beginning 
January 1, 2002, except that the INS Commissioner may exceed this cap as 
necessary for national security purposes and in cases of immigration 
emergencies: Provided further, That uniforms may be purchased without 
regard to the general purchase price limitation for the current fiscal 
year: Provided further, That, in addition to reimbursable full-time 
equivalent workyears available to the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, not to exceed 20,759 positions and 20,096 full-time equivalent 
workyears shall be supported from the funds appropriated under this 
heading in this Act for the Immigration and Naturalization

[[Page 115 STAT. 756]]

Service: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this or 
any other Act shall be used for the continued operation of the San 
Clemente and Temecula checkpoints unless the checkpoints are open and 
traffic is being checked on a continuous 24-hour basis.

   citizenship and benefits, immigration support and program direction

    For all programs of the Immigration and Naturalization Service not 
included under the heading ``Enforcement and Border Affairs'', 
$631,745,000, of which not to exceed $400,000 for research shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses: Provided 
further, That the Attorney General may transfer any funds appropriated 
under this heading and the heading ``Enforcement and Border Affairs'' 
between said appropriations notwithstanding any percentage transfer 
limitations imposed under this appropriations Act and may direct such 
fees as are collected by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to 
the activities funded under this heading and the heading ``Enforcement 
and Border Affairs'' for performance of the functions for which the fees 
legally may be expended: Provided further, That not to exceed 40 
permanent positions and 40 full-time equivalent workyears and $4,300,000 
shall be expended for the Offices of Legislative Affairs and Public 
Affairs: Provided further, That unencumbered positions in the 
aforementioned offices after the date of enactment of this Act shall be 
filled only by personnel details, temporary transfers of personnel on 
either a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, or any other formal or 
informal transfer or reimbursement of personnel or funds on either a 
temporary or long-term basis up to 10 full-time equivalent workyears: 
Provided further, That the number of positions filled through non-career 
appointment at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, for which 
funding is provided in this Act or is otherwise made available to the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service, shall not exceed six permanent 
positions and six full-time equivalent workyears: Provided further, That 
none of the funds available to the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service shall be used to pay any employee overtime pay in an amount in 
excess of $30,000 during the calendar year beginning January 1, 2002, 
except that the INS Commissioner may exceed this cap as necessary for 
national security purposes and in cases of immigration emergencies: 
Provided further, That funds may be used, without limitation, for 
equipping, maintaining, and making improvements to the infrastructure 
and the purchase of vehicles for police-type use within the limits of 
the Enforcement and Border Affairs appropriation: Provided further, 
That, in addition to reimbursable full-time equivalent workyears 
available to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, not to exceed 
3,100 positions and 3,500 full-time equivalent workyears shall be 
supported from the funds appropriated under this heading in this Act for 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

                              construction

    For planning, construction, renovation, equipping, and maintenance 
of buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to immigration, naturalization,

[[Page 115 STAT. 757]]

and alien registration, not otherwise provided for, $128,454,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That no funds shall be 
available for the site acquisition, design, or construction of any 
Border Patrol checkpoint in the Tucson sector.

                          Federal Prison System

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration, operation, and 
maintenance of Federal penal and correctional institutions, including 
purchase (not to exceed 685, of which 610 are for replacement only) and 
hire of law enforcement and passenger motor vehicles, and for the 
provision of technical assistance and advice on corrections related 
issues to foreign governments, $3,808,600,000: Provided, <<NOTE: 42 USC 
250a.>>  That the Attorney General may transfer to the Health Resources 
and Services Administration such amounts as may be necessary for direct 
expenditures by that Administration for medical relief for inmates of 
Federal penal and correctional institutions: Provided further, That the 
Director of the Federal Prison System (FPS), where necessary, may enter 
into contracts with a fiscal agent/fiscal intermediary claims processor 
to determine the amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of FPS, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of FPS: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available for necessary 
operations until September 30, 2003: Provided further, That, of the 
amounts provided for Contract Confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall remain available until expended to make payments in advance for 
grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses 
authorized by section 501(c) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 
1980, as amended, for the care and security in the United States of 
Cuban and Haitian entrants: Provided further, That the Director of the 
Federal Prison System may accept donated property and services relating 
to the operation of the prison card program from a not-for-profit entity 
which has operated such program in the past notwithstanding the fact 
that such not-for-profit entity furnishes services under contracts to 
the Federal Prison System relating to the operation of pre-release 
services, halfway houses or other custodial facilities.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$813,552,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$14,000,000 shall be available to construct areas for inmate work 
programs: Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be used 
for work performed under this appropriation: Provided further, That not 
to exceed 10 percent of the funds appropriated to ``Buildings and 
Facilities'' in this or any other Act may be transferred to ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', Federal

[[Page 115 STAT. 758]]

Prison System, upon notification by the Attorney General to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate in compliance with provisions set forth in section 605 of this 
Act.

                 federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized to 
make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation, including purchase (not to 
exceed five for replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $3,429,000 of the funds of the corporation shall be 
available for its administrative expenses, and for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to be computed on an accrual basis to be 
determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which the said accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or 
produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other property 
belonging to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                           justice assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, as amended (``the 1968 Act''), and the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act, as amended, including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith, and with the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, as 
amended, $185,514,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized 
by section 1001 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968, as amended by Public Law 102-534 (106 Stat. 3524).
    In addition, for grants, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by sections 819 and 821 of the Antiterrorism and 
Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 and for other counterterrorism 
programs, $251,494,000, to remain available until expended.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322), as amended (``the 1994 
Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as 
amended (``the 1968 Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, as 
amended (``the 1990 Act''); and the Victims

[[Page 115 STAT. 759]]

of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); 
$2,403,354,000 (including amounts for administrative costs, which shall 
be transferred to and merged with the ``Justice Assistance'' account), 
to remain available until expended as follows:
            (1) $400,000,000 for Local Law Enforcement Block Grants, 
        pursuant to H.R. 728 as passed by the House of Representatives 
        on February 14, 1995, except that for purposes of this Act and 
        retroactive to October 1, 2000, Guam shall be considered as one 
        ``State'' for all purposes under H.R. 728, notwithstanding any 
        provision of section 108(3) thereof, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico shall be considered a ``unit of local government'' as well 
        as a ``State'', for the purposes set forth in paragraphs (A), 
        (B), (D), (F), and (I) of section 101(a)(2) of H.R. 728, and for 
        establishing crime prevention programs involving cooperation 
        between community residents and law enforcement personnel in 
        order to control, detect, or investigate crime or the 
        prosecution of criminals: Provided, That no funds provided under 
        this heading may be used as matching funds for any other Federal 
        grant program, of which:
                    (A) $70,000,000 shall be for Boys and Girls Clubs in 
                public housing facilities and other areas in cooperation 
                with State and local law enforcement: Provided, That 
                funds may also be used to defray the costs of 
                indemnification insurance for law enforcement officers;
                    (B) $19,956,000 shall be available for grants, 
                contracts, and other assistance to carry out section 
                102(c) of H.R. 728;
            (2) $565,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 242(j) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act, as amended;
            (3) $20,000,000 for the Cooperative Agreement Program;
            (4) $48,162,000 for assistance to Indian tribes, of which:
                    (A) $35,191,000 shall be available for grants under 
                section 20109(a)(2) of subtitle A of title II of the 
                1994 Act;
                    (B) $7,982,000 shall be available for the Tribal 
                Courts Initiative; and
                    (C) $4,989,000 shall be available for demonstration 
                grants on alcohol and crime in Indian Country;
            (5) $594,489,000 for programs authorized by part E of title 
        I of the 1968 Act, notwithstanding the provisions of section 511 
        of said Act, of which $94,489,000 shall be for discretionary 
        grants under the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law 
        Enforcement Assistance Programs;
            (6) $11,975,000 for the Court Appointed Special Advocate 
        Program, as authorized by section 218 of the 1990 Act;
            (7) $2,296,000 for Child Abuse Training Programs for 
        Judicial Personnel and Practitioners, as authorized by section 
        224 of the 1990 Act;
            (8) $998,000 for grants for televised testimony, as 
        authorized by section 1001(a)(7) of the 1968 Act;
            (9) $184,737,000 for Grants to Combat Violence Against 
        Women, to States, units of local government, and Indian tribal 
        governments, as authorized by section 1001(a)(18) of the 1968 
        Act, of which:

[[Page 115 STAT. 760]]

                    (A) $1,000,000 shall be for the Bureau of Justice 
                Statistics for grants, contracts, and other assistance 
                for a domestic violence Federal case processing study;
                    (B) $5,200,000 shall be for the National Institute 
                of Justice for grants, contracts, and other assistance 
                for research and evaluation of violence against women;
                    (C) $10,000,000 shall be for the Office of Juvenile 
                Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Safe Start 
                Program, to be administered as authorized by part C of 
                the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Act of 1974, as 
                amended; and
                    (D) $200,000 for the Attorney General to conduct a 
                study and prepare a report to be submitted to the 
                Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and State 
                Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
                Representatives Appropriations Committee on the response 
                of local law enforcement agencies to emergency calls 
                involving domestic violence;
            (10) $64,925,000 for Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies to 
        States, units of local government, and Indian tribal 
        governments, as authorized by section 1001(a)(19) of the 1968 
        Act;
            (11) $39,945,000 for Rural Domestic Violence and Child Abuse 
        Enforcement Assistance Grants, as authorized by section 40295 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (12) $4,989,000 for training programs to assist probation 
        and parole officers who work with released sex offenders, as 
        authorized by section 40152(c) of the 1994 Act, and for local 
        demonstration projects;
            (13) $3,000,000 for grants to States and units of local 
        government to improve the process for entering data regarding 
        stalking and domestic violence into local, State, and national 
        crime information databases, as authorized by section 40602 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (14) $10,000,000 for grants to reduce Violent Crimes Against 
        Women on Campus, as authorized by section 1108(a) of Public Law 
        106-386;
            (15) $40,000,000 for Legal Assistance for Victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201 of Public Law 106-386;
            (16) $5,000,000 for enhancing protection for older and 
        disabled women from domestic violence and sexual assault as 
        authorized by section 40801 of the 1994 Act;
            (17) $15,000,000 for the Safe Havens for Children Pilot 
        Program as authorized by section 1301 of Public Law 106-386;
            (18) $200,000 for the study of standards and processes for 
        forensic exams of domestic violence, as authorized by section 
        1405 of Public Law 106-386;
            (19) $7,500,000 for Education and Training to end violence 
        against and abuse of women with disabilities, as authorized by 
        section 1402 of Public Law 106-386;
            (20) $10,000,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
        trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 
        106-386;
            (21) $70,000,000 for grants for residential substance abuse 
        treatment for State prisoners, as authorized by section 
        1001(a)(17) of the 1968 Act: Provided, That States that have in-
        prison drug treatment programs, in compliance with Federal

[[Page 115 STAT. 761]]

        requirements, may use their residential substance abuse grant 
        funds for treatment, both during incarceration and after 
        release;
            (22) $898,000 for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient 
        Alert Program, as authorized by section 240001(c) of the 1994 
        Act;
            (23) $50,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by title V 
        of the 1994 Act;
            (24) $1,497,000 for Law Enforcement Family Support Programs, 
        as authorized by section 1001(a)(21) of the 1968 Act;
            (25) $1,995,000 for public awareness programs addressing 
        marketing scams aimed at senior citizens, as authorized by 
        section 250005(3) of the 1994 Act;
            (26) $249,450,000 for Juvenile Accountability Incentive 
        Block Grants, of which $38,000,000 shall be available for 
        grants, contracts, and other assistance under the Project 
        ChildSafe Initiative, except that such funds shall be subject to 
        the same terms and conditions as set forth in the provisions 
        under this heading for this program in Public Law 105-119, but 
        all references in such provisions to 1998 shall be deemed to 
        refer instead to 2002, and Guam shall be considered a ``State'' 
        for the purposes of title III of H.R. 3, as passed by the House 
        of Representatives on May 8, 1997; and
            (27) $1,298,000 for Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Programs, 
        as authorized by section 220002(h) of the 1994 Act:

Provided, That funds made available in fiscal year 2002 under subpart 1 
of part E of title I of the 1968 Act may be obligated for programs to 
assist States in the litigation processing of death penalty Federal 
habeas corpus petitions and for drug testing initiatives: Provided 
further, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds made 
available under this title to increase the number of law enforcement 
officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net gain in the 
number of law enforcement officers who perform nonadministrative public 
safety service.

                       weed and seed program fund

    For necessary expenses, including salaries and related expenses of 
the Executive Office for Weed and Seed, to implement ``Weed and Seed'' 
program activities, $58,925,000, to remain available until expended, for 
inter-governmental agreements, including grants, cooperative agreements, 
and contracts, with State and local law enforcement agencies, non-profit 
organizations, and agencies of local government engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of violent crimes and drug offenses in 
``Weed and Seed'' designated communities, and for either reimbursements 
or transfers to appropriation accounts of the Department of Justice and 
other Federal agencies which shall be specified by the Attorney General 
to execute the ``Weed and Seed'' program strategy: Provided, That funds 
designated by Congress through language for other Department of Justice 
appropriation accounts for ``Weed and Seed'' program activities shall be 
managed and executed by the Attorney General through the Executive 
Office for Weed and Seed: Provided further, That the Attorney General 
may direct the use of other Department of Justice funds and personnel in 
support of ``Weed and Seed'' program activities only after the Attorney 
General notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 605 of this 
Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 762]]

                  community oriented policing services

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994, Public Law 103-322 (``the 1994 Act'') 
(including administrative costs), $1,050,440,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That prior year balances available in this 
program shall be used for the direct hiring of law enforcement officers 
through the Universal Hiring Program: Provided further, That section 
1703 (b) and (c) of the 1968 Act shall not apply to non-hiring grants 
made pursuant to part Q of title I thereof (42 U.S.C. 3796dd et seq.): 
Provided further, That all prior year balances derived from the Violent 
Crime Trust Fund for Community Oriented Policing Services may be 
transferred into this appropriation: Provided further, That the officer 
redeployment demonstration described in section 1701(b)(1)(C) shall not 
apply to equipment, technology, support system or overtime grants made 
pursuant to part Q of title I thereof (42 U.S.C. 3796dd et seq.).
    Of the amounts provided:
            (1) for Public Safety and Community Policing Grants pursuant 
        to title I of the 1994 Act, $496,014,000 as follows: 
        $330,000,000 for the hiring of law enforcement officers, 
        including up to $180,000,000 for school resource officers; 
        $20,662,000 for training and technical assistance; $25,444,000 
        for the matching grant program for Law Enforcement Armor Vests 
        pursuant to section 2501 of part Y of the Omnibus Crime Control 
        and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended (``the 1968 Act''); 
        $35,000,000 to improve tribal law enforcement including 
        equipment and training; $70,473,000 for policing initiatives to 
        combat methamphetamine production and trafficking and to enhance 
        policing initiatives in ``drug hot spots''; and $14,435,000 for 
        Police Corps education, training, and service under sections 
        200101-200113 of the 1994 Act;
            (2) for crime technology, $351,632,000 as follows: 
        $154,345,000 for a law enforcement technology program; 
        $35,000,000 for grants to upgrade criminal records, as 
        authorized under the Crime Identification Technology Act of 1998 
        (42 U.S.C. 14601); $40,000,000 for DNA analysis and backlog 
        reduction of which $35,000,000 shall be used as authorized by 
        the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (Public Law 
        106-546) and of which $5,000,000 shall be available for Paul 
        Coverdell Forensic Sciences Improvement Grants under part BB of 
        title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
        1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797j et seq.); $35,000,000 for State and local 
        DNA laboratories as authorized by section 1001(a)(22) of the 
        1968 Act, and improvements to forensic laboratory general 
        forensic science capacity and capabilities; and $87,287,000 for 
        grants, contracts and other assistance to States under section 
        102(b) of the Crime Identification Technology Act of 1998 (42 
        U.S.C. 14601), of which $17,000,000 is for the National 
        Institute of Justice for grants, contracts, and other agreements 
        to develop school safety technologies and training;
            (3) for prosecution assistance, $99,780,000 as follows: 
        $49,780,000 for a national program to reduce gun violence, and 
        $50,000,000 for the Southwest Border Prosecutor Initiative

[[Page 115 STAT. 763]]

        to reimburse State, county, parish, tribal, or municipal 
        governments only for Federal costs associated with the 
        prosecution of criminal cases declined by local U.S. Attorneys 
        offices;
            (4) for grants, training, technical assistance, and other 
        expenses to support community crime prevention efforts, 
        $70,202,000 as follows: $14,967,000 for Project Sentry; 
        $14,934,000 for an offender re-entry program; $23,338,000 for 
        the Safe Schools Initiative; and $16,963,000 for a police 
        integrity program; and
            (5) not to exceed $32,812,000 for program management and 
        administration.

                        juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974, as amended (``the Act''), including salaries and expenses in 
connection therewith to be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Justice Assistance, $286,403,000, to remain available 
until expended, as authorized by section 299 of part I of title II and 
section 506 of title V of the Act, as amended by Public Law 102-586, of 
which: (1) notwithstanding any other provision of law, $6,832,000 shall 
be available for expenses authorized by part A of title II of the Act, 
$88,804,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by part B of 
title II of the Act, and $58,513,000 shall be available for expenses 
authorized by part C of title II of the Act: Provided, That $26,442,000 
of the amounts provided for part B of title II of the Act, as amended, 
is for the purpose of providing additional formula grants under part B 
to States that provide assurances to the Administrator that the State 
has in effect (or will have in effect no later than 1 year after date of 
application) policies and programs that ensure that juveniles are 
subject to accountability-based sanctions for every act for which they 
are adjudicated delinquent; (2) $11,974,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by sections 281 and 282 of part D of title II of the 
Act for prevention and treatment programs relating to juvenile gangs; 
(3) $9,978,000 shall be available for expenses authorized by section 285 
of part E of title II of the Act; (4) $15,965,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized by part G of title II of the Act for juvenile 
mentoring programs; and (5) $94,337,000 shall be available for expenses 
authorized by title V of the Act for incentive grants for local 
delinquency prevention programs; of which $12,472,000 shall be for 
delinquency prevention, control, and system improvement programs for 
tribal youth; of which $14,513,000 shall be available for the Safe 
Schools Initiative including $5,033,000 for grants, contracts, and other 
assistance under the Project Sentry Initiative; and of which $25,000,000 
shall be available for grants of $360,000 to each State and $6,640,000 
shall be available for discretionary grants to States, for programs and 
activities to enforce State laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic 
beverages to minors or the purchase or consumption of alcoholic 
beverages by minors, prevention and reduction of consumption of 
alcoholic beverages by minors, and for technical assistance and 
training: Provided further, That of amounts made available under the 
Juvenile Justice Programs of the Office of Justice Programs to carry out 
part B (relating to Federal Assistance for State and Local Programs), 
subpart II of part C (relating to Special Emphasis Prevention and 
Treatment Programs), part D (relating to Gang-

[[Page 115 STAT. 764]]

Free Schools and Communities and Community-Based Gang Intervention), 
part E (relating to State Challenge Activities), and part G (relating to 
Mentoring) of title II of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974, and to carry out the At-Risk Children's Program 
under title V of that Act, not more than 10 percent of each such amount 
may be used for research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed 
to benefit the programs or activities authorized under the appropriate 
part or title, and not more than 2 percent of each such amount may be 
used for training and technical assistance activities designed to 
benefit the programs or activities authorized under that part or title.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance, $10,976,000 to remain available until expended, for 
developing, testing, and demonstrating programs designed to reduce drug 
use among juveniles.
    In addition, for grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
other assistance authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990, 
as amended, $8,481,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized by section 214B of the Act.

                     public safety officers benefits

    To remain available until expended, for payments authorized by part 
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3796), as amended, such sums as are necessary, as authorized 
by section 6093 of Public Law 100-690 (102 Stat. 4339-4340); and 
$4,500,000, to remain available until expended for payments as 
authorized by section 1201(b) of said Act.

                General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of not 
to exceed $45,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of Justice 
in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for official 
reception and representation expenses in accordance with distributions, 
procedures, and regulations established by the Attorney General.
    Sec. 102. Authorities contained in the Department of Justice 
Appropriation Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1980 (Public Law 96-132; 93 
Stat. 1040 (1979)), as amended, shall remain in effect until the 
effective date of a subsequent Department of Justice Appropriation 
Authorization Act.
    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  None of the funds appropriated by 
this title shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or in the case of rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be 
declared unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this 
section shall be null and void.

    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: Abortion.>>  None of the funds appropriated under 
this title shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate 
in any way the performance of, any abortion.

    Sec. 105. Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 104 intended to address

[[Page 115 STAT. 765]]

the philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of 
Prisons.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: 18 USC 3059 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $10,000,000 of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used to establish and publicize a program under which 
publicly advertised, extraordinary rewards may be paid, which shall not 
be subject to spending limitations contained in sections 3059 and 3072 
of title 18, United States Code: Provided, That any reward of $100,000 
or more, up to a maximum of $2,000,000, may not be made without the 
personal approval of the President or the Attorney General and such 
approval may not be delegated: Provided further, That rewards made 
pursuant to section 501 of Public Law 107-56 shall not be subject to 
this section.

    Sec. 107. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 108. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, $1,000,000 
shall be available for technical assistance from the funds appropriated 
for part G of title II of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974, as amended.
    Sec. 109. Section 286 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1356), as amended, is further amended as follows:
            (1) by striking in subsection (d) ``$6'', and inserting 
        ``$7'';
            (2) by amending subsection (e)(1), by replacing ``No'' with 
        ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), no''; and
            (3) by adding a new paragraph (e)(3) as follows:
            ``(3) The Attorney General is authorized to charge and 
        collect $3 per individual for the immigration inspection or pre-
        inspection of each commercial vessel passenger whose journey 
        originated in the United States or in any place set forth in 
        paragraph (1): Provided, That this authorization shall not apply 
        to immigration inspection at designated ports of entry of 
        passengers arriving by the following vessels, when operating on 
        a regular schedule: Great Lakes international ferries, or Great 
        Lakes Vessels on the Great Lakes and connecting waterways.''.

    Sec. 110. Section 286(q)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act of 1953, as amended, <<NOTE: 8 USC 1356.>>  is further amended by 
striking ``6'' and inserting ``96''.

    Sec. 111. (a) Section 1402(d)(3) of the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984, <<NOTE: 42 USC 10601.>> is amended by striking the period at the 
end and inserting ``, and for a Victim Notification System.''.

    (b) Section 1402(c) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 is amended 
to read as it did on October 25, 2001.
    Sec. 112. Section 6 of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 
2000 (Public Law 106-207; 8 U.S.C. 1423 note) (as amended by Public Law 
106-415) is amended by striking ``18 months'' each place such term 
appears and inserting ``36 months''.
    Sec. 113. No provision of section 614 of Public Law 107-56 shall 
incorporate the organization that administers title I of the Violent 
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) 
(Community Oriented Policing Services), its programs

[[Page 115 STAT. 766]]

and functions, into the Office of Justice Programs, for fiscal year 2002 
and thereafter.
    Sec. 114. <<NOTE: Posthumous citizenship.>>  (a) Notwithstanding any 
provision of title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1401 et seq.), the Attorney General shall provide, in accordance with 
this section, for the granting of posthumous citizenship, as of 
September 10, 2001, to a person described in subsection (b), if the 
Attorney General approves an application for such citizenship filed 
under subsection (e).

    (b) A person referred to in subsection (a) is a person who--
            (1) while an alien or a noncitizen national of the United 
        States, died as a result of an injury incurred in one or more of 
        the events described in subsection (c);
            (2) was not culpable for any of such events; and
            (3) on September 11, 2001, had pending an application for 
        naturalization filed with the Attorney General by the person.

    (c)(1) The events described in this subsection are the following:
            (A) The hijacking of American Airlines Flight 11 on 
        September 11, 2001, the crash of that aircraft into the World 
        Trade Center in New York, New York, and the subsequent 
        destruction that resulted.
            (B) The hijacking of United Airlines Flight 175 on such 
        date, the crash of that aircraft into the World Trade Center in 
        New York, New York, and the subsequent destruction that 
        resulted.
            (C) The hijacking of American Airlines Flight 77 on such 
        date, the crash of that aircraft into the Pentagon in Arlington, 
        Virginia, and the subsequent destruction that resulted.
            (D) The hijacking of United Airlines Flight 93 on such date, 
        and the crash of that aircraft in Stony Creek Township, 
        Pennsylvania.

    (2) Any person who died as a result of an injury incurred while 
assisting in the emergency response to an event described in paragraph 
(1) (such as military personnel, law enforcement officers, firefighters, 
emergency management personnel, search and rescue personnel, medical 
personnel, engineers and other personnel providing technical assistance, 
and volunteers) shall be considered to have died as a result of an 
injury incurred in such event.
    (d)(1) Unless otherwise provided by this section, no person may be 
granted posthumous citizenship under this section who would not 
otherwise have been eligible for naturalization on the date of the 
person's death. Unless otherwise provided by this section, any provision 
of law that specifically bars or prohibits a person from being 
naturalized as a citizen of the United States shall be applied to the 
granting of posthumous citizenship under this section.
    (2) Notwithstanding section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1423), or any similar provision of law requiring that a 
person demonstrate an understanding of the English language or a 
knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of 
the principles and form of government, of the United States in order to 
be naturalized, no such demonstration shall be required for the granting 
of posthumous citizenship under this section.
    (3) No oath of renunciation or allegiance shall be required for the 
granting of posthumous citizenship under this section.

[[Page 115 STAT. 767]]

    (4) To the maximum extent practicable, the investigation and 
examination described in section 335 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1446) shall be conducted with respect to an application 
described in subsection (b)(3) in the same manner as they otherwise 
would have been conducted if the subject of the application had not 
died.
    (e) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  A request for the granting of posthumous 
citizenship to a person described in subsection (b) may be filed on 
behalf of the person only by the next of kin (as defined by the Attorney 
General) or another representative (as defined by the Attorney General), 
and must be filed not later than 2 years after the later of--
            (1) the date of the enactment of this section; or
            (2) the date of the person's death.

    (f) If the Attorney General approves such a request to grant a 
person posthumous citizenship, the Attorney General shall send to the 
individual who filed the request a suitable document which states that 
the United States considers the person to have been a citizen of the 
United States as of September 10, 2001.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing for any 
benefits under the Immigration and Nationality Act for any spouse, son, 
daughter, or other relative of a person granted posthumous citizenship 
under this section.
    (h)(1) Notwithstanding section 341 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1452), the Attorney General shall provide, in 
accordance with this subsection, for the furnishing of a certificate of 
citizenship to a person described in paragraph (4), if the Attorney 
General approves under paragraph (3) an application for such certificate 
described in paragraph (2).
    (2) An application described in this paragraph is an application for 
a certificate of citizenship that was--
            (A) filed with the Attorney General under such section 341 
        by a person who subsequently died as a result of an injury 
        incurred in one or more of the events described in section 
        114(c) and who was not culpable for any of such events; and
            (B) pending on September 11, 2001.

    (3) The Attorney General shall consider an application described in 
paragraph (2) pursuant to the standards under such section 341 and shall 
approve the application if the applicant would have been eligible to 
receive a certificate of citizenship on September 11, 2001, if the 
applicant had not died, except that the requirements of such section 
relating to the oath of allegiance and presence within the United States 
shall not apply.
    (4) A request for a certificate of citizenship under this subsection 
may be filed only by the next of kin (as defined by the Attorney 
General) or another representative (as defined by the Attorney General) 
of the applicant described in paragraph (2), and must be filed not later 
than 2 years after the later of--
            (A) the date of the enactment of this section; or
            (B) the date of the applicant's death.

    (i)(1) Notwithstanding section 322 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1433), the Attorney General shall provide, in 
accordance with this subsection, for the furnishing of a certificate of 
citizenship to a parent described in paragraph (2), if, upon the request 
of the parent, the Attorney General approves under paragraph (3) an 
application for naturalization described in paragraph (2).

[[Page 115 STAT. 768]]

    (2) An application described in this paragraph is an application for 
naturalization that was--
            (A) filed with the Attorney General under such section 322 
        by a parent of a child who subsequently died as a result of an 
        injury incurred in one or more of the events described in 
        section 114(c) and who was not culpable for any of such events; 
        and
            (B) pending on September 11, 2001.

    (3) The Attorney General shall consider an application described in 
paragraph (2) pursuant to the standards under such section 322 and shall 
approve the application if the child would have been eligible to receive 
a certificate of citizenship on September 11, 2001, if the child had not 
died, except that the requirements of such section relating to the oath 
of allegiance shall not apply.
    Sec. 115. (a) Section 231(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
8 U.S.C. 1221(a), is amended to read--
    ``(a) Arrival Manifest; Form and Contents.--With respect to the 
arrival of any person by water or by air at any port within the United 
States from any place outside the United States, it shall be the duty of 
the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or 
consignee, of the vessel or aircraft transporting such person to deliver 
to the Service at the port of arrival a list or manifest of the persons 
transported on such vessel or aircraft. The Attorney General is 
authorized to extend, by regulation, the requirements of this subsection 
to any public or private carrier transporting persons by land to the 
United States. <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  Such list or manifest shall be 
prepared and delivered at such time, be in such form, and shall contain 
such information as the Attorney General shall prescribe by regulation 
as being necessary for the identification of the persons transported and 
for the enforcement of the immigration laws. The Attorney General may 
require in such regulations that the list or manifest be delivered 
electronically prior to boarding the vessel, aircraft, train or bus at 
the place of departure, or at such other time reasonably in advance of 
the arrival of the vessel, aircraft, train or bus in the United States 
as the Attorney General may direct.''.

    (b) Section 231(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is amended 
to read--
    ``(b) Departure Manifest; Form and Contents.--It shall be the duty 
of the master or commanding officer or authorized agent of every vessel 
or aircraft taking passengers on board at any port of the United States, 
who are destined to any place outside the United States, to file with 
the immigration officers before departure from such port a list or 
manifest of all such persons transported. The Attorney General is 
authorized to extend, by regulation, the requirements of this subsection 
to any public or private carrier transporting persons by land from the 
United States. <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  Such list or manifest shall be 
prepared and delivered at such time, be in such form, and shall contain 
such information as the Attorney General shall prescribe by regulation 
as being necessary for the identification of the persons transported and 
for the enforcement of the immigration laws. The Attorney General may 
require in such regulations that the list or manifest be delivered 
electronically prior to boarding the vessel, aircraft, train or bus at 
the place of departure, or at such other time reasonably in advance of 
the departure of the vessel, aircraft, train or bus from the United

[[Page 115 STAT. 769]]

States as the Attorney General may direct. No master or commanding 
officer of any such vessel or aircraft, or operator of any private or 
public carrier, shall be granted clearance papers until he or the 
authorized agent has complied with the requirements of this subsection, 
except that in the case of vessels, aircraft, trains or buses which the 
Attorney General determines are making regular trips to the United 
States, the Attorney General may, when expedient, arrange for the 
delivery of lists of outgoing persons at a later date.''.

    (c) Section 231(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act <<NOTE: 8 
USC 1221.>>  is amended by--
            (1) In the heading, striking ``Shipments or Aircraft'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof, ``Shipments, Aircraft or Carriers'';
            (2) In the first sentence, inserting ``, any public or 
        private carrier,'' after ``or aircraft,''; and
            (3) In the second sentence, striking ``vessel or aircraft'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof, ``vessel, aircraft, train or 
        bus''.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2002''.

      TITLE II <<NOTE: Department of Commerce and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2002.>> --DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND RELATED 
AGENCIES

                  Trade and Infrastructure Development

                            RELATED AGENCIES

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$30,097,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $98,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                     International Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $51,440,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to 44 U.S.C. 3702 and

[[Page 115 STAT. 770]]

3703; full medical coverage for dependent members of immediate families 
of employees stationed overseas and employees temporarily posted 
overseas; travel and transportation of employees of the United States 
and Foreign Commercial Service between two points abroad, without regard 
to 49 U.S.C. 1517; employment of Americans and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, and 
expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or construction 
of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use abroad; payment 
of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph of 28 
U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$327,000 for official representation expenses abroad; purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for official use abroad, not to exceed $30,000 
per vehicle; obtaining insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental 
of tie lines, $347,547,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$3,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be retained and used by the 
International Trade Administration, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: 
Provided, That $67,669,000 shall be for Trade Development, $27,741,000 
shall be for Market Access and Compliance, $43,346,000 shall be for the 
Import Administration, $195,791,000 shall be for the United States and 
Foreign Commercial Service, and $13,000,000 shall be for Executive 
Direction and Administration: Provided further, That the provisions of 
the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) 
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities without regard 
to section 5412 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 
U.S.C. 4912); and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act shall 
include payment for assessments for services provided as part of these 
activities.

                          Export Administration

                      operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed overseas; 
employment of Americans and aliens by contract for services abroad; 
payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first paragraph 
of 28 U.S.C. 2672 when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to 
exceed $15,000 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, 
and as authorized by 22 U.S.C. 401(b); purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use 
with special requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard 
to any price limitation otherwise established by law, $68,893,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $7,250,000 shall be for 
inspections and other activities related to national security: Provided, 
That the provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of 
section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities: Provided further, That payments and contributions collected 
and accepted for materials or services provided as part of

[[Page 115 STAT. 771]]

such activities may be retained for use in covering the cost of such 
activities, and for providing information to the public with respect to 
the export administration and national security activities of the 
Department of Commerce and other export control programs of the United 
States and other governments.

                   Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended, and for 
trade adjustment assistance, $335,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $30,557,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title I 
of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, as amended, title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, as amended, and the Community Emergency Drought 
Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                      minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $28,381,000.

                 Economic and Information Infrastructure

                    Economic and Statistical Analysis

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$62,515,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003.

                          Bureau of the Census

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing, and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $169,424,000.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For necessary expenses related to the 2000 decennial census, 
$85,238,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That, of the 
total amount available related to the 2000 decennial census ($85,238,000 
in new appropriations and $54,000,000 in deobligated balances from prior 
years), $8,606,000 is for Program Development and Management; 
$68,330,000 is for Data Content and Products; $9,455,000 is for Field 
Data Collection and Support Systems;

[[Page 115 STAT. 772]]

$24,462,000 is for Automated Data Processing and Telecommunications 
Support; $22,844,000 is for Testing and Evaluation; $3,105,000 is for 
activities related to Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Pacific Areas; 
and $2,436,000 is for Marketing, Communications and Partnership 
activities.
    In addition, for expenses related to planning, testing, and 
implementing the 2010 decennial census, $65,000,000.
    In addition, for expenses to collect and publish statistics for 
other periodic censuses and programs provided for by law, $171,138,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That regarding engineering 
and design of a facility at the Suitland Federal Center, quarterly 
reports regarding the expenditure of funds and project planning, design 
and cost decisions shall be provided by the Bureau, in cooperation with 
the General Services Administration, to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this Act or any other Act under the 
heading ``Bureau of the Census, Periodic Censuses and Programs'' shall 
be used to fund the construction and tenant build-out costs of a 
facility at the Suitland Federal Center.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $14,054,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall charge Federal agencies 
for costs incurred in spectrum management, analysis, and operations, and 
related services and such fees shall be retained and used as offsetting 
collections for costs of such spectrum services, to remain available 
until expended: Provided further, <<NOTE: 47 USC 903 note.>>  That 
hereafter, notwithstanding any other provision of law, NTIA shall not 
authorize spectrum use or provide any spectrum functions pursuant to the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization 
Act, 47 U.S.C. 902-903, to any Federal entity without reimbursement as 
required by NTIA for such spectrum management costs, and Federal 
entities withholding payment of such cost shall not use spectrum: 
Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain 
and use as offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs incurred in 
telecommunications research, engineering, and related activities by the 
Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its 
assigned functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from 
other Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

     public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $43,466,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $2,358,000 shall be available for program administration as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act:

[[Page 115 STAT. 773]]

Provided further, That, notwithstanding the provisions of section 391 of 
the Act, the prior year unobligated balances may be made available for 
grants for projects for which applications have been submitted and 
approved during any fiscal year.

                    information infrastructure grants

    For grants authorized by section 392 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, $15,503,000, to remain available until expended as 
authorized by section 391 of the Act, as amended: Provided, That not to 
exceed $3,097,000 shall be available for program administration and 
other support activities as authorized by section 391: Provided further, 
That, of the funds appropriated herein, not to exceed 5 percent may be 
available for telecommunications research activities for projects 
related directly to the development of a national information 
infrastructure: Provided further, That, notwithstanding the requirements 
of sections 392(a) and 392(c) of the Act, these funds may be used for 
the planning and construction of telecommunications networks for the 
provision of educational, cultural, health care, public information, 
public safety, or other social services: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no entity that receives 
telecommunications services at preferential rates under section 254(h) 
of the Act (47 U.S.C. 254(h)) or receives assistance under the regional 
information sharing systems grant program of the Department of Justice 
under part M of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796h) may use funds under a grant under this 
heading to cover any costs of the entity that would otherwise be covered 
by such preferential rates or such assistance, as the case may be.

                United States Patent and Trademark Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office provided for by law, including defense of suits instituted 
against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and 
Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, $843,701,000, 
to remain available until expended, which amount shall be derived from 
offsetting collections assessed and collected pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1113 
and 35 U.S.C. 41 and 376, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation: Provided, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2002, so as to result in a 
fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2002, should the total amount 
of offsetting fee collections be less than $843,701,000, the total 
amounts available to the United States Patent and Trademark Office shall 
be reduced accordingly: Provided further, That an additional amount not 
to exceed $282,300,000 from fees collected in prior fiscal years shall 
be available for obligation in fiscal year 2002, to remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That from amounts provided herein, not 
to exceed $1,000 shall be made available in fiscal year 2002 for 
official reception and representation expenses.

[[Page 115 STAT. 774]]

                         Science and Technology

                        Technology Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Under Secretary for Technology/Office 
of Technology Policy, $8,238,000.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $321,111,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $282,000 may be transferred to the ``Working Capital 
Fund''.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Manufacturing Extension Partnership of 
the National Institute of Standards and Technology, $106,522,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Commerce is authorized to enter into agreements with one or more 
nonprofit organizations for the purpose of carrying out collective 
research and development initiatives pertaining to 15 U.S.C. 278k 
paragraph (a), and is authorized to seek and accept contributions from 
public and private sources to support these efforts as necessary.
    In addition, for necessary expenses of the Advanced Technology 
Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$184,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to exceed 
$60,700,000 shall be available for the award of new grants.

                   construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including architectural 
and engineering design, and for renovation of existing facilities, not 
otherwise provided for the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 278c-278e, $62,393,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft; grants, contracts, or other payments to 
nonprofit organizations for the purposes of conducting activities 
pursuant to cooperative agreements; and relocation of facilities as 
authorized by 33 U.S.C. 883i, $2,253,697,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That fees and donations received by the National 
Ocean Service for the management of the national marine sanctuaries may 
be retained and used for the salaries and expenses associated with those 
activities, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302: Provided further, That, in 
addition,

[[Page 115 STAT. 775]]

$68,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to 
American Fisheries'': Provided further, That grants to States pursuant 
to sections 306 and 306A of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as 
amended, shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided further, That, of the 
$2,341,697,000 provided for in direct obligations under this heading (of 
which $2,253,697,000 is appropriated from the General Fund, $71,000,000 
is provided by transfer, and $17,000,000 is derived from deobligations 
from prior years), $413,911,000 shall be for the National Ocean Service, 
$579,196,000 shall be for the National Marine Fisheries Service, 
$356,062,000 shall be for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, $672,355,000 
shall be for the National Weather Service, $139,627,000 shall be for the 
National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service, and 
$180,546,000 shall be for Program Support: Provided further, <<NOTE: 2 
USC 900 note.>>  That, hereafter, habitat conservation activities under 
this heading shall be considered to be within the ``Coastal Assistance 
sub-category'' in section 250(c)(4)(K) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: Provided further, 
That, of the amount provided under this heading, $223,273,000 shall be 
for the conservation activities defined in section 250(c)(4)(K) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That no general administrative charge shall be applied 
against an assigned activity included in this Act and, further, that any 
direct administrative expenses applied against an assigned activity 
shall be limited to 5 percent of the funds provided for that assigned 
activity so that total National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
administrative expenses shall not exceed $265,025,000: Provided further, 
That any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this 
heading in previous years shall be subject to the procedures set forth 
in section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided, $3,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the fund entitled 
``Coastal Zone Management'': Provided further, That the Secretary may 
proceed as he deems necessary to have the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration occupy and operate its research facilities 
which are located at Lafayette, Louisiana: Provided further, That the R/
V FAIRWEATHER shall be homeported in Ketchikan, Alaska.

    In addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the Retired 
Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and for 
payments for medical care of retired personnel and their dependents 
under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as 
may be necessary.

                procurement, acquisition and construction

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, $836,552,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That unexpended balances of amounts previously made 
available in the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' account for 
activities funded under this heading may be transferred to and merged 
with this account, to remain available until expended for the purposes 
for which the funds were originally appropriated: Provided further, That 
of the amounts provided for

[[Page 115 STAT. 776]]

the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System, 
funds shall only be made available on a dollar for dollar matching basis 
with funds provided for the same purpose by the Department of Defense: 
Provided further, That of the amount provided under this heading for 
expenses necessary to carry out conservation activities defined in 
section 250(c)(4)(E) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, including funds for the Coastal and 
Estuarine Land Conservation Program, $58,487,000 to remain available 
until expended: Provided further, <<NOTE: 16 USC 1456d.>>  That the 
Secretary shall establish a Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation 
Program, for the purpose of protecting important coastal and estuarine 
areas that have significant conservation, recreation, ecological, 
historical, or aesthetic values, or that are threatened by conversion 
from their natural or recreational state to other uses: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  That by September 30, 2002, the Secretary 
shall issue guidelines for this program delineating the criteria for 
grant awards: Provided further, That the Secretary shall distribute 
these funds in consultation with the States' Coastal Zone Managers' or 
Governors' designated representatives based on demonstrated need and 
ability to successfully leverage funds, and shall give priority to lands 
which can be effectively managed and protected and which have 
significant ecological value: Provided further, That grants funded under 
this program shall require a 100 percent match from other sources: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act or any 
other Act under the heading ``National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' shall be 
used to fund the General Services Administration's standard construction 
and tenant build-out costs of a facility at the Suitland Federal Center.

                     pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations and the implementation of the 1999 Pacific Salmon 
Treaty Agreement between the United States and Canada, $110,000,000: 
Provided, That this amount shall be for the conservation activities 
defined in section 250(c)(4)(E) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    In addition, for implementation of the 1999 Pacific Salmon Treaty 
Agreement, $47,419,000, of which $20,000,000 shall be deposited in the 
Northern Boundary and Transboundary Rivers Restoration and Enhancement 
Fund, of which $20,000,000 shall be deposited in the Southern Boundary 
Restoration and Enhancement Fund, of which $5,419,000 shall be for a 
final direct payment to the State of Washington for obligations under 
the 1999 Pacific Salmon Treaty Agreement, and of which $2,000,000 is for 
the Pacific Salmon Commission: Provided, That this amount shall be for 
the conservation activities defined in section 250(c)(4)(E) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      coastal zone management fund

    Of amounts collected pursuant to section 308 of the Coastal Zone 
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456a), not to exceed $3,000,000 shall 
be transferred to the ``Operations, Research, and Facilities'' account 
to offset the costs of implementing such Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 777]]

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $952,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                      foreign fishing observer fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Atlantic 
Tunas Convention Act of 1975, as amended (Public Law 96-339), the 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1976, as 
amended (Public Law 100-627), and the American Fisheries Promotion Act 
(Public Law 96-561), to be derived from the fees imposed under the 
foreign fishery observer program authorized by these Acts, not to exceed 
$191,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fisheries finance program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $287,000, as authorized by the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading may be used for 
direct loans for any new fishing vessel that will increase the 
harvesting capacity in any United States fishery.

                         Departmental Management

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the departmental management of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$5,000 for official entertainment, $37,652,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 1-11, as amended by Public Law 100-504), 
$20,176,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 201. During the current fiscal year, applicable appropriations 
and funds made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act shall 
be available for the activities specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 
(15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner prescribed by the Act, 
and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced payments 
not otherwise authorized only upon the certification of officials 
designated by the Secretary of Commerce that such payments are in the 
public interest.
    Sec. 202. During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).

[[Page 115 STAT. 778]]

    Sec. 203. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that are 
under the control of the United States Air Force or the United States 
Air Force Reserve.
    Sec. 204. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 205. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this title resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this title or from actions taken for the care and 
protection of loan collateral or grant property shall be absorbed within 
the total budgetary resources available to such department or agency: 
Provided, That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations 
accounts as may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in 
addition to authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided 
further, That use of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 206. The Secretary of Commerce may award contracts for 
hydrographic, geodetic, and photogrammetric surveying and mapping 
services in accordance with title IX of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 541 et seq.).
    Sec. 207. The Secretary of Commerce may use the Commerce franchise 
fund for expenses and equipment necessary for the maintenance and 
operation of such administrative services as the Secretary determines 
may be performed more advantageously as central services, pursuant to 
section 403 of Public Law 103-356: Provided, That any inventories, 
equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to be provided by 
such fund, either on hand or on order, less the related liabilities or 
unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made for the purpose of 
providing capital shall be used to capitalize such fund: Provided 
further, That such fund shall be paid in advance from funds available to 
the Department and other Federal agencies for which such centralized 
services are performed, at rates which will return in full all expenses 
of operation, including accrued leave, depreciation of fund plant and 
equipment, amortization of automated data processing (ADP) software and 
systems (either acquired or donated), and an amount necessary to 
maintain a reasonable operating reserve, as determined by the Secretary: 
Provided further, That such fund shall provide services on a competitive 
basis: Provided further, <<NOTE: 31 USC 501 note.>>  That an amount not 
to exceed 4 percent of the total annual income to such fund may be 
retained in the fund for fiscal year 2002 and each fiscal year 
thereafter, to remain available until expended, to be used for the 
acquisition of capital equipment, and for the improvement and 
implementation of department financial management, ADP, and other 
support systems: Provided further, That such amounts retained in the 
fund for fiscal year 2002 and each

[[Page 115 STAT. 779]]

fiscal year thereafter shall be available for obligation and expenditure 
only in accordance with section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That 
no later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, amounts in 
excess of this reserve limitation shall be deposited as miscellaneous 
receipts in the Treasury: Provided further, That such franchise fund 
pilot program shall terminate pursuant to section 403(f) of Public Law 
103-356.

    Sec. 208. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amounts 
made available elsewhere in this title to the ``National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, Construction of Research Facilities'', 
$8,000,000 is appropriated to fund a cooperative agreement with the 
Medical University of South Carolina, $6,000,000 is appropriated to the 
Thayer School of Engineering for the nanocrystalline materials and 
biomass research initiative, $3,000,000 is appropriated to the Institute 
for Information Infrastructure Protection at the Institute for Security 
Technology Studies, $3,350,000 is appropriated for the Institute for 
Politics, $650,000 is appropriated to the Mount Washington Technology 
Village, $6,500,000 is appropriated for a critical infrastructure 
project at the George Mason University School of Law, $3,700,000 is 
appropriated for the Conservation Institute of the Bronx Zoo, $2,000,000 
is appropriated for the Adolescent Mental Health Residential Treatment 
program at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, $1,300,000 is appropriated for 
the Puerto Rican Historical, Cultural and Activities Center, $5,000,000 
is appropriated for the National Infrastructure Institute, and 
$2,000,000 is appropriated for the University of South Carolina School 
of Public Health.
    Sec. 209. (a) The Secretary of Commerce shall present with the 
fiscal year 2003 budget request a detailed description of all projects, 
programs, and activities to be funded from the ``Working Capital Fund'' 
and the ``Advances and Reimbursements'' account.
    (b) The ``Working Capital Fund'' and ``Advances and Reimbursements'' 
account shall be subject to section 605 of this Act begining in fiscal 
year 2003.
    Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding section 102 of the Marine Mammal 
Protection Act of 1972, as amended, or section 9 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973, the Anchorage Sister Cities Commission of 
Anchorage, Alaska, may export, on a one-time basis, to the Town of 
Whitby, in the care of the Scarborough Borough Council, Whitby, North 
Yorkshire, United Kingdom, two bowhead whale jawbones taken as part of a 
legal subsistence hunt by Native Alaskans and identified in U.S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service, Convention on International Trade of Endangered 
Species, permit 01US037393/9.
    (b) The Anchorage Sister Cities Commission shall notify the National 
Marine Fisheries Service Office of Enforcement 15 days prior to shipment 
to ensure compliance with all applicable export requirements.
    Sec. 211. Section 213(a) of title II of division C of Public Law 
105-277 <<NOTE: 16 USC 1851 note.>>  is amended by striking the second 
sentence and inserting in lieu thereof: ``There are authorized to be 
appropriated $6,700,000 per year to carry out the provisions of this Act 
through fiscal year 2004.''.

    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002''.

[[Page 115 STAT. 780]]

TITLE III <<NOTE: Judiciary Appropriations Act, 2002.>> --THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
purchase or hire, driving, maintenance, and operation of an automobile 
for the Chief Justice, not to exceed $10,000 for the purpose of 
transporting Associate Justices, and hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for miscellaneous 
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice may approve, $39,988,000.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect of 
the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by the 
Act approved May 7, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 13a-13b), $37,530,000, which shall 
remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge, judges, and other officers and 
employees, and for necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by 
law, $19,287,000.

               United States Court of International Trade

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries of the chief judge and eight judges, salaries of the 
officers and employees of the court, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, and necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, 
$13,064,000.

     Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of circuit and district judges (including judges of 
the territorial courts of the United States), justices and judges 
retired from office or from regular active service, judges of the United 
States Court of Federal Claims, bankruptcy judges, magistrate judges, 
and all other officers and employees of the Federal Judiciary not 
otherwise specifically provided for, and necessary expenses of the 
courts, as authorized by law, $3,591,116,000 (including the purchase of 
firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall 
remain available until expended for space alteration projects and for 
furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.


[[Page 115 STAT. 781]]


    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $2,692,000, to be appropriated 
from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

                            defender services

    For the operation of Federal Public Defender and Community Defender 
organizations; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
attorneys appointed to represent persons under the Criminal Justice Act 
of 1964, as amended; the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of 
persons furnishing investigative, expert and other services under the 
Criminal Justice Act of 1964 (18 U.S.C. 3006A(e)); the compensation (in 
accordance with Criminal Justice Act maximums) and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to assist the court in criminal cases 
where the defendant has waived representation by counsel; the 
compensation and reimbursement of travel expenses of guardians ad litem 
acting on behalf of financially eligible minor or incompetent offenders 
in connection with transfers from the United States to foreign countries 
with which the United States has a treaty for the execution of penal 
sentences; the compensation of attorneys appointed to represent jurors 
in civil actions for the protection of their employment, as authorized 
by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d); and for necessary training and general 
administrative expenses, $500,671,000, to remain available until 
expended as authorized by 18 U.S.C. 3006A(i).

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71A(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71A(h)), $48,131,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

                             court security

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to 
providing protective guard services for United States courthouses and 
the procurement, installation, and maintenance of security equipment for 
United States courthouses and other facilities housing Federal court 
operations, including building ingress-egress control, inspection of 
mail and packages, directed security patrols, and other similar 
activities as authorized by section 1010 of the Judicial Improvement and 
Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-702), $220,677,000, of which not 
to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for security 
systems or contract costs for court security officers, to be expended 
directly or transferred to the United States Marshals Service, which 
shall be responsible for administering the Judicial Facility Security 
Program consistent with standards or guidelines agreed to by the 
Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts and 
the Attorney General.

[[Page 115 STAT. 782]]

            Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $61,664,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                         Federal Judicial Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as authorized 
by Public Law 90-219, $19,735,000; of which $1,800,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2003, to provide education and training 
to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,000 is 
authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Judicial Retirement Funds

                    payment to judiciary trust funds

    For payment to the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund, as authorized 
by 28 U.S.C. 377(o), $26,700,000; to the Judicial Survivors' Annuities 
Fund, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 376(c), $8,400,000; and to the United 
States Court of Federal Claims Judges' Retirement Fund, as authorized by 
28 U.S.C. 178(l), $1,900,000.

                   United States Sentencing Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $11,575,000, of which not 
to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                    General Provisions--the Judiciary

    Sec. 301. Appropriations and authorizations made in this title which 
are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section

[[Page 115 STAT. 783]]

605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 303. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for district courts, courts of appeals, and 
other judicial services shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United States: 
Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall 
be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office of the 
United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the Judicial 
Conference.
    Sec. 304. Of the unexpended balances transferred to the Commission 
on Structural Alternatives in Federal Appellate Courts, $400,000 shall 
be transferred to, and merged with, funds in the ``Federal Judicial 
Center, Salaries and Expenses'' appropriations account to be available 
only for distance learning.
    Sec. 305. <<NOTE: 28 USC 461 note.>>  Pursuant to section 140 of 
Public Law 97-92, Justices and judges of the United States are 
authorized during fiscal year 2002, to receive a salary adjustment in 
accordance with 28 U.S.C. 461: Provided, That $8,625,000 is appropriated 
for salary adjustments pursuant to this section and such funds shall be 
transferred to and merged with appropriations in title III of this Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2002''.

TITLE IV-- <<NOTE: Department of State and Related Agency Appropriations 
Act, 2002.>> DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                           DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, including employment, without regard 
to civil service and classification laws, of persons on a temporary 
basis (not to exceed $700,000 of this appropriation), as authorized by 
section 801 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange 
Act of 1948, as amended; representation to certain international 
organizations in which the United States participates pursuant to 
treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or 
specific Acts of Congress; arms control, nonproliferation and 
disarmament activities as authorized; acquisition by exchange or 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law; and for 
expenses of general administration, $3,142,277,000: Provided, That, of 
the amount made available under this heading, not to exceed $4,000,000 
may be transferred to, and merged with, funds in the ``Emergencies in 
the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' appropriations account, to be 
available only for emergency evacuations and terrorism rewards: Provided 
further, That, of the amount made available under this heading, 
$270,259,000 shall be available only for public diplomacy international 
information programs: Provided further, That of the amount made 
available under this heading, $694,190,000 shall be available only for 
information resource management: Provided further, <<NOTE: 8 USC 1351 
note.>>  That notwithstanding section 140(a)(5), and the second sentence 
of section 140(a)(3), of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1994 and 1995, fees may be collected during

[[Page 1 15 STAT. 784]]

fiscal years 2002 and 2003, under the authority of section 140(a)(1) of 
that Act: Provided further, That all fees collected under the preceding 
proviso shall be deposited in fiscal years 2002 and 2003 as an 
offsetting collection to appropriations made under this heading to 
recover costs as set forth under section 140(a)(2) of that Act and shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That, of the amount 
made available under this heading, $1,800,000 shall be available for a 
grant to conduct an international conference on combating sex 
trafficking: <<NOTE: China. Notification.>>  Provided further, That no 
funds may be obligated or expended for processing licenses for the 
export of satellites of United States origin (including commercial 
satellites and satellite components) to the People's Republic of China 
unless, at least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified of such 
proposed action.

    In addition, not to exceed $1,343,000 shall be derived from fees 
collected from other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities 
located at the International Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
International Center Act, as amended; in addition, as authorized by 
section 5 of such Act, $490,000, to be derived from the reserve 
authorized by that section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
section; in addition, as authorized by section 810 of the United States 
Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to exceed $6,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, may be credited to this appropriation 
from fees or other payments received from English teaching, library, 
motion pictures, and publication programs and from fees from educational 
advising and counseling and exchange visitor programs; and, in addition, 
not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived from reimbursements, 
surcharges, and fees for use of Blair House facilities.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
$487,735,000, to remain available until expended.

                         capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $203,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized: Provided, That 
section 135(e) of Public Law 103-236 shall not apply to funds available 
under this heading.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$29,000,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980, as amended (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post 
inspections.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $237,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That not to exceed $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, may 
be credited to this appropriation from fees or other payments received 
from or in connection with English teaching, educational advising and 
counseling programs, and exchange visitor programs as authorized.

[[Page 115 STAT. 785]]

                        representation allowances

    For representation allowances as authorized, $6,485,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$9,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2003.

             embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926, as amended (22 U.S.C. 292-300), preserving, 
maintaining, repairing, and planning for buildings that are owned or 
directly leased by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to 
funds otherwise available, the Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out 
the Diplomatic Security Construction Program as authorized, 
$458,000,000, to remain available until expended as authorized, of which 
not to exceed $25,000 may be used for domestic and overseas 
representation as authorized: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be available for acquisition of 
furniture, furnishings, or generators for other departments and 
agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $815,960,000, to remain 
available until expended.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For expenses necessary to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
$6,500,000, to remain available until expended as authorized, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the 
Repatriation Loans Program Account, subject to the same terms and 
conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $612,000, as authorized: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. In 
addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the direct 
loan program, $607,000, which may be transferred to and merged with the 
Diplomatic and Consular Programs account under Administration of Foreign 
Affairs.

               payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act, Public 
Law 96-8, $17,044,000.

      payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized by law, $135,629,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 786]]

               International Organizations and Conferences

              contributions to international organizations

    For expenses, <<NOTE: 22 USC 269a note.>>  not otherwise provided 
for, necessary to meet annual obligations of membership in international 
multilateral organizations, pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to 
the advice and consent of the Senate, conventions or specific Acts of 
Congress, $850,000,000: Provided, That any payment of arrearages under 
this title shall be directed toward special activities that are mutually 
agreed upon by the United States and the respective international 
organization: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be available for a United States contribution to an 
international organization for the United States share of interest costs 
made known to the United States Government by such organization for 
loans incurred on or after October 1, 1984, through external borrowings: 
Provided further, That, of the funds appropriated in this paragraph, 
$100,000,000 may be made available only pursuant to a certification by 
the Secretary of State that the United Nations has taken no action in 
calendar year 2001 prior to the date of enactment of this Act to 
increase funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget and cause the 
United Nations to exceed the budget for the biennium 2000-2001 of 
$2,535,700,000: Provided further, That if the Secretary of State is 
unable to make the aforementioned certification, the $100,000,000 is to 
be applied to paying the current year assessment for other international 
organizations for which the assessment has not been paid in full or to 
paying the assessment due in the next fiscal year for such 
organizations, subject to the reprogramming procedures contained in 
section 605 of this Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph may be obligated and expended to pay the full United 
States assessment to the civil budget of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization.

         contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $844,139,000, of which 
15 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2003: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available under this Act shall be obligated 
or expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission 
unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for the new or expanded 
mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an emergency as 
far in advance as is practicable): (1) the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate and other appropriate 
committees of the Congress are notified of the estimated cost and length 
of the mission, the vital national interest that will be served, and the 
planned exit strategy; and (2) a reprogramming of funds pursuant to 
section 605 of this Act is submitted, and the procedures therein 
followed, setting forth the source of funds that will be used to pay for 
the cost of the new or expanded mission: Provided further, That funds 
shall be available for peacekeeping expenses only upon a certification 
by the Secretary of State to the appropriate committees of the Congress 
that American manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities 
to provide equipment, services,

[[Page 115 STAT. 787]]

and material for United Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those 
being given to foreign manufacturers and suppliers: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading are available 
to pay the United States share of the cost of court monitoring that is 
part of any United Nations peacekeeping mission.

                        international commissions

    For necessary expenses, <<NOTE: 2 USC 269a note.>>  not otherwise 
provided for, to meet obligations of the United States arising under 
treaties, or specific Acts of Congress, as follows:

  international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation; as follows:

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $24,705,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $5,450,000, to remain available until expended, as authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and for the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by Public Law 103-182, 
$9,911,000, of which not to exceed $9,000 shall be available for 
representation expenses incurred by the International Joint Commission.

                   international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $20,480,000: Provided, 
That the United States' share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3324.

                                  Other

                     payment to the asia foundation

    For a grant to the Asia Foundation, as authorized by the Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), as amended, $9,250,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized.

[[Page 115 STAT. 788]]

            eisenhower exchange fellowship program trust fund

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2002, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376; or for purposes which are not in accordance 
with OMB Circulars A-110 (Uniform Administrative Requirements) and A-122 
(Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations), including the 
restrictions on compensation for personal services.

                    israeli arab scholarship program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 30, 
2002, to remain available until expended.

                            east-west center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, 
$14,000,000: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall 
be used to pay any salary, or enter into any contract providing for the 
payment thereof, in excess of the rate authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5376.

                    national endowment for democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National Endowment 
for Democracy as authorized by the National Endowment for Democracy Act, 
$33,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                     Broadcasting Board of Governors

                  international broadcasting operations

    For expenses necessary to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, as authorized, to carry out international communication 
activities, $428,234,000, of which not to exceed $16,000 may be used for 
official receptions within the United States as authorized, not to 
exceed $35,000 may be used for representation abroad as authorized, and 
not to exceed $39,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty; and in 
addition, notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$2,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue from business 
ventures, not to exceed $500,000 in receipts from cooperating 
international organizations, and not to exceed

[[Page 115 STAT. 789]]

$1,000,000 in receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of 
America and the International Broadcasting Bureau, to remain available 
until expended for carrying out authorized purposes.

                          broadcasting to cuba

    For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
to carry out broadcasting to Cuba, including the purchase, rent, 
construction, and improvement of facilities for radio and television 
transmission and reception, and purchase and installation of necessary 
equipment for radio and television transmission and reception, 
$24,872,000, to remain available until expended.

                    broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, and improvement of facilities 
for radio transmission and reception, and purchase and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio and television transmission and reception 
as authorized, $25,900,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

       General Provisions--Department of State and Related Agency

    Sec. 401. Funds appropriated under this title shall be available, 
except as otherwise provided, for allowances and differentials as 
authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States Code; for services 
as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and for hire of passenger transportation 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1343(b).
    Sec. 402. Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of State in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Broadcasting Board of Governors in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided 
further, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as 
a reprogramming of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.
    Sec. 403. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Department of State or the Broadcasting Board of Governors to 
provide equipment, technical support, consulting services, or any other 
form of assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.
    Sec. 404. <<NOTE: 22 USC 287e note.>>  Hereafter, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available for the United Nations may be 
used by the United Nations for the promulgation or enforcement of any 
treaty, resolution, or regulation authorizing the United Nations, or any 
of its specialized agencies or affiliated organizations, to tax any 
aspect of the Internet or international currency transactions.

    Sec. 405. Funds appropriated by this Act for the Broadcasting Board 
of Governors and the Department of State may be obligated

[[Page 115 STAT. 790]]

and expended notwithstanding section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, and section 15 of the 
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended.
    Sec. 406. The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 
(22 U.S.C. 2451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:

``SEC. 114. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2463.>>  ALLOCATION OF FUNDS TRANSFERRED TO 
            THE BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS.

    ``Of each amount transferred to the Bureau of Educational and 
Cultural Affairs out of appropriations other than appropriations under 
the heading `Educational and Cultural Exchange Programs' for support of 
an educational or cultural exchange program, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not more than 7.5 percent shall be made available to 
cover administrative expenses incurred in connection with support of the 
program. Amounts made available to cover administrative expenses shall 
be credited to the appropriations under the heading `Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Programs' and shall remain available until 
expended.''.
    Sec. 407. (a) Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998 (as enacted in division G of the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999; Public 
Law 105-277 and amended by section 404(a) of the Admiral James W. Nance 
and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 
and 2001) <<NOTE: 22 USC 6553.>>  is amended by striking ``October 1, 
2001'' and inserting ``October 1, 2005''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 22 USC 6553 note.>>  The amendment made by subsection 
(a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the Admiral 
James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001.

    (c) The provisions of law repealed by section 404(c) of the Admiral 
James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (section 404(c) of division A of H.R. 3427, 
as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113; 
appendix G; 113 Stat. 1501A-446) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1461 note, 1469; 5 USC 
app.>>  are hereby reenacted into law.

    (d) <<NOTE: 22 USC 1469 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, any period of discontinuity of the United States Advisory 
Commission on Public Diplomacy shall not affect the appointment or terms 
of service of members of the commission.

    Sec. 408. (a) Section 303 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1988 
(as enacted into law by section 101(a) of Public Law 100-202) <<NOTE: 22 
USC 276e note.>>  is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``$440,000'' and inserting ``$620,000''.

    (b)(1) Section 2(2) of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint 
resolution to authorize participation by the United States in 
parliamentary conferences of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization'', 
approved July 11, 1956 (22 U.S.C. 1928b) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``$100,000'' and inserting ``$200,000''; and
            (B) by striking ``$50,000'' each of the two places it 
        appears and inserting ``$100,000''.

    (2) Section 2 of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint resolution to 
authorize participation by the United States in parliamentary 
conferences with Mexico'', approved April 9, 1960 (22 U.S.C. 276i) is 
amended--
            (A) by striking ``$80,000'' and inserting ``$120,000''; and

[[Page 115 STAT. 791]]

            (B) by striking ``$40,000'' each of the two places it 
        appears and inserting ``$60,000''.

    (3) Section 2 of the joint resolution entitled ``Joint resolution to 
authorize participation by the United States in parliamentary 
conferences with Canada'', approved June 11, 1959 (22 U.S.C. 276e) is 
amended--
            (A) by striking ``$70,000'' and inserting ``$150,000''; and
            (B) by striking ``$35,000'' each of the two places it 
        appears and inserting ``$75,000''.

    (4) Section 109(b) of the Department of State Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (22 U.S.C. 276 note) <<NOTE: 22 USC 276l 
note.>>  is amended by striking ``$50,000'' and inserting ``$100,000''.

    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever either the 
House of Representatives or the Senate does not appoint its allotment of 
members as part of the American delegation or group to a conference or 
assembly of the British-American Interparliamentary Group, the 
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the Mexico-
United States Interparliamentary Group, the North Atlantic Assembly, or 
any similar interparliamentary group of which the United States is a 
member or participates and so notifies the other body of Congress, the 
other body may make appointments to complete the membership of the 
American delegation. Any appointment pursuant to this section shall be 
for the period of such conference or assembly and the body of Congress 
making such an appointment shall be responsible for the expenses of any 
member so appointed. Any such appointment shall be made in the same 
manner in which other appointments to the delegation by such body of 
Congress are made.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of State and Related 
Agency Appropriations Act, 2002''.

                        TITLE V--RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration

                        maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag merchant 
fleet to serve the national security needs of the United States, 
$98,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                         operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $89,054,000, of which $13,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for capital improvements at the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy.

           maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act, 1936, $33,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed 
loan program, not to exceed $3,978,000, which shall

[[Page 115 STAT. 792]]

be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for Operations and 
Training.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Maritime 
Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services and make 
necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy 
involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration, and payments received therefore shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof: Provided, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    No obligations shall be incurred during the current fiscal year from 
the construction fund established by the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, or 
otherwise, in excess of the appropriations and limitations contained in 
this Act or in any prior Appropriations Act.

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of America's 
Heritage Abroad, $489,000, as authorized by section 1303 of Public Law 
99-83.

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,096,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $50,000 may be used to employ consultants: Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ 
in excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted 
Service exclusive of one special assistant for each Commissioner: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable days, 
with the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable 
days.

              Commission on International Religious Freedom

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-292), 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Commission on Ocean Policy

                          salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Commission on Ocean Policy, 
pursuant to Public Law 106-256, $3,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, <<NOTE: 33 USC 857-19 note.>>  That the Commission 
shall present to


[[Page 115 STAT. 793]]

the Congress within 18 months of appointment its recommendations for a 
national ocean policy.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $1,499,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized by section 3 of Public Law 99-7.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                 Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(d) and 621-634), the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343(b); non-monetary awards to 
private citizens; and not to exceed $30,000,000 for payments to State 
and local enforcement agencies for services to the Commission pursuant 
to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, sections 6 and 
14 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, and the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
$310,406,000: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $2,500 from available funds.

                    Federal Communications Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $600,000 for land and 
structure; not to exceed $500,000 for improvement and care of grounds 
and repair to buildings; not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; purchase (not to exceed 16) and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $245,071,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2003, for research and policy studies: 
Provided, That $218,757,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed 
and collected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act 
of 1934, as amended, and shall be retained and used for necessary 
expenses in this appropriation, and shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall

[[Page 115 STAT. 794]]

be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2002 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2002 appropriation 
estimated at $26,314,000: Provided further, That any offsetting 
collections received in excess of $218,757,000 in fiscal year 2002 shall 
remain available until expended, but shall not be available for 
obligation until October 1, 2002.

                       Federal Maritime Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. App. 1111), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, $16,458,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $155,982,000: Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be 
available for use to contract with a person or persons for collection 
services in accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718, as amended: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, not 
to exceed $155,982,000 of offsetting collections derived from fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino 
Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the 
year of collection, shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in 
this appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be 
reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
2002, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2002 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $0, to remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the 
Federal Trade Commission shall be available for obligation for expenses 
authorized by section 151 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242; 105 Stat. 2282-2285).

                       Legal Services Corporation

                payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended, 
$329,300,000, of which $310,000,000 is for basic field programs and 
required independent audits; $2,500,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to 
conduct additional audits of recipients;

[[Page 115 STAT. 795]]

$12,400,000 is for management and administration; and $4,400,000 is for 
client self-help and information technology.

          administrative provisions--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in 
sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead 
to 2001 and 2002, respectively.
    Section 504(a)(16) of Public Law 104-134 <<NOTE: 110 Stat. 1321-
55.>>  is hereafter amended by striking ``if such relief does not 
involve'' and all that follows through ``representation''.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as authorized 
by title II of Public Law 92-522, as amended, $1,957,000.

           National Veterans Business Development Corporation

    For necessary expenses of the National Veterans Business Development 
Corporation as authorized under section 33(a) of the Small Business Act, 
as amended, $4,000,000.

                       Pacific Charter Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Pacific Charter Commission, as 
authorized by the Pacific Charter Commission Act of 2000 (Public Law 
106-570), $1,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $109,500,000 from fees collected in fiscal year 
2002 to remain available until expended, and from fees collected in 
previous fiscal years, $328,400,000, to remain available until expended; 
of which not to exceed $10,000 may be used toward funding a permanent 
secretariat for the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions; and of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for 
expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with 
foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, members of their 
delegations, appropriate representatives and staff to exchange views 
concerning developments relating to securities matters, development and

[[Page 115 STAT. 796]]

implementation of cooperation agreements concerning securities matters 
and provision of technical assistance for the development of foreign 
securities markets, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and foreign 
invitees in attendance at such consultations and meetings including: (1) 
such incidental expenses as meals taken in the course of such 
attendance; (2) any travel and transportation to or from such meetings; 
and (3) any other related lodging or subsistence: Provided, That fees 
and charges authorized by sections 6(b)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 
(15 U.S.C. 77f(b)(4)) and 31(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78ee(d)) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections: Provided further, That in the event that H.R. 1088, the 
Investor and Capital Markets Fee Relief Act, or other legislation to 
amend section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)), and 
sections 13(e), 14(g), and 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78m(e), 78n(g) and 78ee), is enacted into law prior to the date 
on which a regular appropriation to the Commission for fiscal year 2003 
is enacted, the fees, charges, and assessments authorized by such 
sections, as amended, shall be deposited and credited to this account as 
offsetting collections: Provided further, That fees collected as 
authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78ee) for sales transacted on, and with respect to securities 
registered solely on, an exchange that is initially granted registration 
as a national securities exchange after February 24, 2000 shall be 
credited to this account as offsetting collections: Provided further, 
That for purposes of collections under section 31, a security shall not 
be deemed registered on a national securities exchange solely because 
that national securities exchange continues or extends unlisted trading 
privileges to that security.

                      Small Business Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration as authorized by Public Law 105-135, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $308,476,000: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized 
to charge fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small 
Business Administration, and certain loan servicing activities: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from 
all such activities shall be credited to this account, to be available 
for carrying out these purposes without further appropriations: Provided 
further, That $88,000,000 shall be available to fund grants for 
performance in fiscal year 2002 or fiscal year 2003 as authorized by 
section 21 of the Small Business Act, as amended.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App.), $11,464,000.

[[Page 115 STAT. 797]]

                     business loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,860,000, to be available until 
expended; and for the cost of guaranteed loans, $78,000,000, as 
authorized by 15 U.S.C. 631 note, of which $45,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2003: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
during fiscal year 2002 commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 
of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, shall not 
exceed $4,500,000,000, as provided under section 20(h)(1)(B)(ii) of the 
Small Business Act: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2002 
commitments for general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of 
the Small Business Act, as amended, shall not exceed $10,000,000,000 
without prior notification of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate in accordance with section 605 of 
this Act: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2002 commitments to 
guarantee loans for debentures and participating securities under 
section 303(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, 
shall not exceed the levels established by section 20(h)(1)(C) of the 
Small Business Act.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $129,000,000, which may be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the Small 
Business Act, as amended, $87,360,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as amended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan program, $122,354,000, which may be transferred to and merged with 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses, of which $500,000 is for the 
Office of Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for 
audits and reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan program and 
shall be transferred to and merged with appropriations for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which $112,000,000 is for direct administrative 
expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the direct loan 
program; and of which $9,854,000 is for indirect administrative 
expenses: Provided, That any amount in excess of $9,854,000 to be 
transferred to and merged with appropriations for Salaries and Expenses 
for indirect administrative expenses shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.

         administrative provision--small business administration

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the Small Business Administration in this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to

[[Page 115 STAT. 798]]

this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.

                         State Justice Institute

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as authorized 
by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 
102-572; 106 Stat. 4515-4516), $3,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,500 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

               United States-Canada Alaska Rail Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the ``United States-Canada Alaska Rail 
Commission'', as authorized by title III of Public Law 106-520, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 603. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>>  The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons or 
circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall not 
be affected thereby.
    Sec. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2002, 
or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States 
derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by 
this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates a 
program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any 
means for any project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes 
offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or privatizes any 
functions or activities presently performed by Federal 
employees; <<NOTE: Notification.>>  unless the Appropriations Committees 
of both Houses of Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds.

[[Page 115 STAT. 799]]

    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2002, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities, 
programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of 
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing 
programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for 
any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 
10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general 
savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in 
existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress; 
unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses 
of <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Congress are notified 15 days in advance of 
such reprogramming of funds.

    Sec. 606. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul, 
conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside of the United 
States.
    Sec. 607. (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--It 
is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, 
all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this 
Act should be American-made.
    (b) Notice Requirement.--In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on religion, 
when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to which such 
funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ in any 
respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission on 
October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).
    Sec. 609. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for any United Nations undertaking when it is made known to the Federal 
official having authority to obligate or expend such funds: (1) that the 
United Nations undertaking is a peacekeeping mission; (2) that such 
undertaking will involve United States Armed Forces under the command or 
operational control of a foreign national; and (3) that the President's 
military advisors have not submitted to the President a recommendation 
that such

[[Page 115 STAT. 800]]

involvement is in the national security interests of the United States 
and the President has not submitted to the Congress such a 
recommendation.
    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 609 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999.
    (b) The requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 609 of 
that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 611. <<NOTE: 18 USC 4042 note.>>  Hereafter, none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Bureau of Prisons shall 
be used to provide the following amenities or personal comforts in the 
Federal prison system--
            (1) in-cell television viewing except for prisoners who are 
        segregated from the general prison population for their own 
        safety;
            (2) the viewing of R, X, and NC-17 rated movies, through 
        whatever medium presented;
            (3) any instruction (live or through broadcasts) or training 
        equipment for boxing, wrestling, judo, karate, or other martial 
        art, or any bodybuilding or weightlifting equipment of any sort;
            (4) possession of in-cell coffee pots, hot plates or heating 
        elements; or
            (5) the use or possession of any electric or electronic 
        musical instrument.

    Sec. 612. <<NOTE: President. 28 USC 504 note.>>  (a) The President 
shall submit as part of the fiscal year 2003 budget to Congress a 
proposal to restructure the Department of Justice to include a 
coordinator of Department of Justice activities relating to combating 
domestic terrorism, including State and local grant programs subject to 
the authority of the Attorney General, and who will serve as the 
Department of Justice representative at interagency meetings on 
combating terrorism below the Cabinet level.

    (b) If the President does not submit a proposal as described in 
subsection (a), or if Congress fails to enact legislation establishing a 
new position described in subsection (a), by June 30, 2002, then 
effective on such date subsections (c) through (f) shall take effect.
    (c)(1) Section 504 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after ``General'' the following: ``and a Deputy Attorney 
General for Combating Domestic Terrorism''.
    (2) the Section heading for section 504 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``Attorney'' and inserting ``Attorneys''.
    (d) The Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism 
(appointed under section 504 of title 28, United States Code, as amended 
by subsection (c)) shall--
            (1) serve as the principal adviser to the Attorney General 
        for combating terrorism, counterterrorism, and antiterrorism 
        policy;
            (2) have responsibility for coordinating all functions 
        within the Department of Justice relating to combating domestic 
        terrorism including--
                    (A) policies, plans, and oversight, as they relate 
                to combating terrorism, counterterrorism, and 
                antiterrorism activities;

[[Page 115 STAT. 801]]

                    (B) State and local preparedness for terrorist 
                events;
                    (C) security classifications and clearances within 
                the Department of Justice;
                    (D) contingency operations within the Department of 
                Justice; and
                    (E) critical infrastructure.
            (3) coordinate--
                    (A) all inter-agency interface between the 
                Department of Justice and other departments, agencies, 
                and entities of the United States, including State and 
                local organizations, engaged in combating terrorism, 
                counterterrorism, and antiterrorism activities; and
                    (B) the implementation of the national strategy for 
                combating terrorism by State and local entities with 
                responsibilities for combating domestic terrorism; and
            (4) recommend changes in the organization and management of 
        the Department of Justice and State and local entities engaged 
        in combating domestic terrorism to the Attorney General.

    (e) There is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the 
United States not otherwise appropriated, for necessary expenses of the 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism 
of the Department of Justice, $1,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    (f) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Effective September 30, 2002, there 
is transferred to the Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic 
Terrorism all authorities, liabilities, funding, personnel, equipment, 
and real property employed or used by, or associated with, the Office of 
Domestic Preparedness, the National Domestic Preparedness Office, the 
Executive Office of National Security, and such appropriate components 
of the Office of Intelligence Policy and Review as relate to combating 
terrorism, counterterrorism, and antiterrorism activities.

    Sec. 613. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under 
this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding 
reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total 
budgetary resources available to such department or agency: Provided, 
That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as 
may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to 
authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use 
of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 614. <<NOTE: Pornography. 18 USC 4042 note.>>  Hereafter, none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Federal 
Bureau of Prisons may be used to distribute or make available any 
commercially published information or material to a prisoner when it is 
made known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or 
expend such funds that such information or material is sexually explicit 
or features nudity.

    Sec. 615. Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', not more than 90 percent of the amount to be awarded to an 
entity under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant shall be made 
available to such an entity when it is made

[[Page 115 STAT. 802]]

known to the Federal official having authority to obligate or expend 
such funds that the entity that employs a public safety officer (as such 
term is defined in section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968) does not provide such a public safety 
officer who retires or is separated from service due to injury suffered 
as the direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the 
line of duty while responding to an emergency situation or a hot pursuit 
(as such terms are defined by State law) with the same or better level 
of health insurance benefits at the time of retirement or separation as 
they received while on duty.
    Sec. 616. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be available 
to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek 
the reduction or removal by any foreign country of restrictions on the 
marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except for restrictions which 
are not applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same 
type.
    Sec. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which 
appropriations are prohibited by section 616 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as amended.
    (b) Subsection (a)(1) of section 616 of that Act, as amended, is 
further amended by striking ``Claudy Myrthil,''.
    (c) The requirements in subsections (b) and (c) of section 616 of 
that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2002.
    Sec. 618. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this Act or any 
other provision of law may be used for: (1) the implementation of any 
tax or fee in connection with the implementation of 18 U.S.C. 922(t); 
and (2) any system to implement 18 U.S.C. 922(t) that does not require 
and result in the destruction of any identifying information submitted 
by or on behalf of any person who has been determined not to be 
prohibited from owning a firearm.
    Sec. 619. <<NOTE: 42 USC 10601 note.>>  Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, amounts deposited or available in the Fund established 
under 42 U.S.C. 10601 in any fiscal year in excess of $550,000,000 shall 
not be available for obligation until the following fiscal year, with 
the exception of emergency appropriations made available by Public Law 
107-38 and transferred to the Fund.

    Sec. 620. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate against or denigrate the 
religious or moral beliefs of students who participate in programs for 
which financial assistance is provided from those funds, or of the 
parents or legal guardians of such students.
    Sec. 621. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of State and the Department of Justice shall be 
available for the purpose of granting either immigrant or nonimmigrant 
visas, or both, consistent with the Secretary's determination under 
section 243(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, to citizens, 
subjects, nationals, or residents of countries that the Attorney General 
has determined deny or unreasonably delay accepting the return of 
citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents under that section.
    Sec. 622. None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used for the purpose of transporting an 
individual who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime

[[Page 115 STAT. 803]]

under State or Federal law and is classified as a maximum or high 
security prisoner, other than to a prison or other facility certified by 
the Federal Bureau of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a 
prisoner.
    Sec. 623. The requirements of section 312(a)(3) of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act shall not apply to funds 
made available by section 2201 of Public Law 106-246.
    Sec. 624. (a) Section 203(i) of the Act entitled ``An Act to approve 
a governing international agreement between the United States and the 
Republic of Poland, and for other purposes'', approved November 13, 
1998, <<NOTE: 16 USC 1856 note.>>  is amended by striking ``2001'' and 
inserting ``2006''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1856 note.>>  Section 203 of such Act, as amended 
by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the 
following:

    ``(j) <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>>  Not later than December 31, 
2001, and every 2 years thereafter, the Pacific State Marine Fisheries 
Commission shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House 
of Representatives a report on the health and management of the 
Dungeness Crab fishery located off the coasts of the States of 
Washington, Oregon, and California.''.

    Sec. 625. Section 140 of Public Law 97-92 (28 U.S.C. 461 note; 95 
Stat. 1200) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``This 
section shall apply to fiscal year 1981 and each fiscal year 
thereafter.''.
    Sec. 626. <<NOTE: President. Deadline.>>  (a) The President shall 
submit, by not later than the time of submission of the Budget of the 
United States Government for Fiscal Year 2003, a legislative proposal to 
establish a comprehensive program to ensure fair, equitable, and prompt 
compensation for all United States victims of international terrorism 
(or relatives of deceased United States victims of international 
terrorism) that occurred or occurs on or after November 1, 1979.

    (b) The legislative proposal shall include, among other things, 
which types of events should be covered; which categories of individuals 
should be covered by a compensation program; the means by which United 
States victims of prior or future acts of international terrorism, 
including those with hostage claims against foreign states, will be 
covered; the establishment of a Special Master to administer the 
program; the categories of injuries for which there should be 
compensation; the process by which any collateral source of compensation 
to a victim (or a relative of a deceased victim) for an act of 
international terrorism shall be offset from any compensation that may 
be paid to that victim (or that relative) under the program established 
by this section; and identifiable sources of funds including assets of 
any state sponsor of terrorism to make payments under the program.
    (c) Amend 28 U.S.C. Section 1605(a)(7)(A) by inserting at the end, 
before the semicolon, the following: ``or the act is related to Case 
Number 1:00CV03110(ESG) in the United States District Court for the 
District of Columbia''.
    Sec. 627. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used by Federal 
prisons to purchase cable television services, to rent or purchase 
videocassettes, videocassette recorders, or other audiovisual or 
electronic equipment used primarily for recreational purposes. The 
preceding sentence does not preclude the renting,

[[Page 115 STAT. 804]]

maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic equipment for 
inmate training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 628. Clause (ii) of section 621(5)(A) of the Communications 
Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 763(5)(A)) is amended by striking ``on 
or about October 1, 2000,'' and all that follows through the end and 
inserting ``not later than December 31, 2002, except that the Commission 
may extend this deadline to not later than June 30, 2003.
    Sec. 629. For an additional amount for ``Small Business 
Administration, Salaries and Expenses'', $30,000,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be available for a grant to Green Thumb, Inc., to 
expand activities serving small businesses and older entrepreneurs; 
$500,000 shall be available for a grant to the New York Small Business 
Development Center to establish veterans business outreach programs; 
$1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the University of West Florida for a 
virtual business accelerator program; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
Hamilton County, Tennessee, to establish a high-tech small business 
incubator; $500,000 shall be available for a grant to the Oklahoma 
Department of Career and Technology Education for a technology-based 
program for vocational training for economic and job development; 
$200,000 shall be available for a grant to Rural Enterprises, Inc., in 
Durant, Oklahoma, to continue support for a resource center for rural 
businesses; $100,000 shall be available for a grant to Oklahoma State 
University for a center for international trade development; $300,000 
shall be for a grant to the University of Montana to establish an 
economic development resource center; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
George Mason University to conduct an information technology business 
development program; $1,500,000 shall be for a grant to Shenandoah 
University to develop a historical and tourism development facility; 
$1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Software Productivity Consortium 
to develop a facility to support demonstration programs on information 
technology and telework; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Southern 
Kentucky Tourism Development Association for continuation of a regional 
tourism promotion initiative; $1,500,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Southern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation for regional 
infrastructure and economic development initiatives; $450,000 shall be 
for a grant to Southern Kentucky Rehabilitation Industries for financial 
assistance and small business development; $350,000 shall be available 
for a grant to the Catskill Mountain Foundation to develop facilities 
and small business assistance programs; $500,000 shall be for a grant to 
the East Los Angeles Community Union to redevelop small business 
assistance facilities; $300,000 shall be for a grant to the Rockford, 
Illinois, Health Council for a pilot program on small business health 
care insurance issues; $2,000,000 shall be for a grant for the Illinois 
Coalition for a national demonstration project providing one-stop 
assistance for technology startup businesses; $1,000,000 shall be for a 
grant to James Madison University for library programs and facilities to 
assist small businesses; $300,000 shall be for a grant to Lewis and 
Clark College in Lewiston, Idaho, to develop a virtual business 
incubator; $300,000 shall be for a grant to the City of Chesapeake, 
Virginia, to develop a community and microenterprise development 
facility; $700,000 shall be for a grant to Social Compact for the 
``Realizing the Dream'' initiative; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to 
Soundview Community in Action for a technology access and

[[Page 115 STAT. 805]]

business improvement project; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the Urban 
Justice Center in New York City for a community development project; 
$1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Bronx Child Study Center at the 
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center; $2,000,000 shall be for a grant to the 
Los Angeles Conservancy for rebuilding and revitalization; $2,000,000 
shall be to the Rhode Island School of Design for the modernization of a 
building to establish a small business incubator; $500,000 shall be for 
a grant to Johnstown Area Regional Industries for a High Technology 
Initiative and a Wireless/Digital Technology Program; $400,000 shall be 
for a grant to Purdue University for the purposes of constructing the 
Purdue Regional Technology Center in Lake County, Indiana; $500,000 
shall be for a grant to the NTTC at Wheeling Jesuit University to 
continue the outreach program to assist small business development; 
$400,000 shall be for a grant to the Infotonics Center of Excellence in 
Rochester, New York, for photonics incubation and business development; 
$1,100,000 shall be for a grant to the MountainMade Foundation to 
fulfill its charter purposes and to continue the initiative developed by 
the NTTC for promotion, business and sites development, and education of 
artists and craftspeople; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the West 
Virginia High Technology Consortium Foundation to develop a small 
business commercialization grant program; $400,000 shall be for a grant 
to the National Corrections and Law Enforcement Training and Technology 
Center, Inc., to work in conjunction with the Office of Law Enforcement 
Technology Commercialization and the Moundsville Economic Development 
Council for continued operations of the National Corrections and Law 
Enforcement Training and Technology Center, and for infrastructure 
improvements associated with this initiative; $500,000 shall be for a 
grant to the Chippewa Falls Industrial Development Corporation in 
Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, for a business development assistance 
program; $400,000 shall be for a grant to the National Center for e-
Commerce at Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, New York; $150,000 shall 
be for a grant to Portage County, Wisconsin, for the establishment of a 
revolving loan fund; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Upper 
Manhattan Empowerment Zone to develop a community accessible 
recreational area and economic development site along the Hudson River 
between 125th and 135th Streets; $150,000 is for a grant to the Long 
Island Bay Shore Aquarium to develop a facility; $500,000 is for a grant 
to Yonkers, New York, for the Nepperhan Valley Technology Center; and 
$500,000 shall be for a grant for Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design 
Center to acquire certain properties to develop a small business 
incubator facility: Provided, That Section 633 of Public Law 106-553 is 
amended with respect to a grant of $1,000,000 for the City of Oak Ridge, 
Tennessee, by inserting the words ``through a subaward to the Oak Ridge 
Associated University for renovation and expansion of a facility owned 
by the Oak Ridge Associated University'' after ``to support technology 
and economic development initiatives''.
    Sec. 630. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be available for cooperation with, or assistance or 
other support to, the International Criminal Court or the Preparatory 
Commission. This subsection shall not be construed to apply to any other 
entity outside the Rome treaty.

[[Page 115 STAT. 806]]

                         TITLE VII--RESCISSIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                            Legal Activities

                         assets forfeiture fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$40,000,000 are rescinded.

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                         Departmental Management

          emergency oil and gas guaranteed loan program account

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading from prior 
year appropriations, $5,200,000 are rescinded.

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                         Maritime Administration

                            ship construction

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $4,400,000 
are rescinded.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                          salaries and expenses

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$50,000,000 are rescinded.

                      Small Business Administration

                     business loans program account

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $5,500,000 
are rescinded.

[[Page 115 STAT. 807]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002''.

    Approved November 28, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2500 (S. 1215):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 107-139 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 107-278 
(Comm. of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-42 accompanying S. 1215 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            July 17, 18, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 10, 13, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 21, Senate amended its amendment.
            Nov. 14, House agreed to conference report.
            Nov. 15, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 37 (2001):
            Nov. 28, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>