[107th Congress Public Law 14]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ014.107]

Public Law 107-14
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend title 38, United States Code, to expand eligibility for 
CHAMPVA, to provide for family coverage and retroactive expansion of the 
increase in maximum benefits under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, 
 to make technical amendments, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 5, 
                          2001 -  [H.R. 801]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Veterans' Survivor Benefits 
Improvements Act of 2001.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short <<NOTE: 38 USC 101 note.>> Title.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``Veterans' Survivor Benefits Improvements Act of 2001''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to title 38, United States Code.
Sec. 3. Eligibility for benefits under CHAMPVA for veterans' survivors 
           who are 
           eligible for hospital insurance benefits under the medicare 
           program.
Sec. 4. Family coverage under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.
Sec. 5. Retroactive applicability of increase in maximum SGLI benefit 
           for members dying in performance of duty on or after October 
           1, 2000.
Sec. 6. Expansion of outreach efforts to eligible dependents.
Sec. 7. Technical amendments to the Montgomery GI Bill statute.
Sec. 8. Miscellaneous technical amendments.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS UNDER CHAMPVA FOR VETERANS' SURVIVORS 
            WHO ARE ELIGIBLE FOR HOSPITAL INSURANCE BENEFITS UNDER THE 
            MEDICARE PROGRAM.

    Subsection (d) of section 1713 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d)(1)(A) An individual otherwise eligible for medical care under 
this section who is also entitled to hospital insurance benefits under 
part A of the medicare program is eligible for medical care under this 
section only if the individual is also enrolled in the supplementary 
medical insurance program under part B of the medicare program.
    ``(B) The limitation in subparagraph (A) does not apply to an 
individual who--
            ``(i) has attained 65 years of age as of the date of the 
        enactment of the Veterans' Survivor Benefits Improvements Act of 
        2001; and
            ``(ii) is not enrolled in the supplementary medical 
        insurance program under part B of the medicare program as of 
        that date.

    ``(2) Subject to paragraph (3), if an individual described in 
paragraph (1) receives medical care for which payment may be made under 
both this section and the medicare program, the amount payable for such 
medical care under this section shall be the amount by which (A) the 
costs for such medical care exceed (B) the sum of--
            ``(i) the amount payable for such medical care under the 
        medicare program; and
            ``(ii) the total amount paid or payable for such medical 
        care by third party payers other than the medicare program.

    ``(3) The amount payable under this subsection for medical care may 
not exceed the total amount that would be paid under subsection (b) if 
payment for such medical care were made solely under subsection (b).
    ``(4) In this paragraph:
            ``(A) The term `medicare program' means the program of 
        health insurance administered by the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1395 et seq.).
            ``(B) The term `third party' has the meaning given that term 
        in section 1729(i)(3) of this title.''.

SEC. 4. FAMILY COVERAGE UNDER SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE.

    (a) Insurable Dependents.--(1) Section 1965 is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `insurable dependent', with respect to a 
        member, means the following:
                    ``(A) The member's spouse.
                    ``(B) The member's child, as defined in the first 
                sentence of section 101(4)(A) of this title.''.

    (2) Section 101(4)(A) is amended in the matter preceding clause (i) 
by inserting ``(other than with respect to a child who is an insurable 
dependent under section 1965(10)(B) of such chapter)'' after ``except 
for purposes of chapter 19 of this title''.
    (b) Insurance Coverage.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 1967 is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) Subject to an election under paragraph (2), any policy of 
insurance purchased by the Secretary under section 1966 of this title 
shall automatically insure the following persons against death:
            ``(A) In the case of any member of a uniformed service on 
        active duty (other than active duty for training)--
                    ``(i) the member; and
                    ``(ii) each insurable dependent of the member.
            ``(B) Any member of a uniformed service on active duty for 
        training or inactive duty training scheduled in advance by 
        competent authority.
            ``(C) In the case of any member of the Ready Reserve of a 
        uniformed service who meets the qualifications set forth in 
        section 1965(5)(B) of this title--
                    ``(i) the member; and
                    ``(ii) each insurable dependent of the member.

    ``(2)(A) A member may elect in writing not to be insured under this 
subchapter.
    ``(B) A member may elect in writing not to insure the member's 
spouse under this subchapter.
    ``(3)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the amount for which 
a person is insured under this subchapter is as follows:
            ``(i) In the case of a member, $250,000.
            ``(ii) In the case of a member's spouse, $100,000.
            ``(iii) In the case of a member's child, $10,000.

    ``(B) A member may elect in writing to be insured or to insure the 
member's spouse in an amount less than the amount provided for under 
subparagraph (A). The member may not elect to insure the member's child 
in an amount less than $10,000. The amount of insurance so elected 
shall, in the case of a member or spouse, be evenly divisible by 
$10,000.
    ``(C) In no case may the amount of insurance coverage under this 
subsection of a member's spouse exceed the amount of insurance coverage 
of the member.
    ``(4)(A) An insurable dependent of a member is not insured under 
this chapter unless the member is insured under this subchapter.
    ``(B) An insurable dependent who is a child may not be insured at 
any time by the insurance coverage under this chapter of more than one 
member. If an insurable dependent who is a child is otherwise eligible 
to be insured by the coverage of more than one member under this 
chapter, the child shall be insured by the coverage of the member whose 
eligibility for insurance under this subchapter occurred first, except 
that if that member does not have legal custody of the child, the child 
shall be insured by the coverage of the member who has legal custody of 
the child.
    ``(5) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The insurance shall be effective 
with respect to a member and the insurable dependents of the member on 
the latest of the following dates:
            ``(A) The first day of active duty or active duty for 
        training.
            ``(B) The beginning of a period of inactive duty training 
        scheduled in advance by competent authority.
            ``(C) The first day a member of the Ready Reserve meets the 
        qualifications set forth in section 1965(5)(B) of this title.
            ``(D) The date certified by the Secretary to the Secretary 
        concerned as the date Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance under 
        this subchapter for the class or group concerned takes effect.
            ``(E) In the case of an insurable dependent who is a spouse, 
        the date of marriage of the spouse to the member.
            ``(F) In the case of an insurable dependent who is a child, 
        the date of birth of such child or, if the child is not the 
        natural child of the member, the date on which the child 
        acquires status as an insurable dependent of the member.''.

    (2) Subsection (c) of such section is amended by striking the first 
sentence and inserting the following: ``If a person eligible for 
insurance under this subchapter is not so insured, or is insured for 
less than the maximum amount provided for the person under subparagraph 
(A) of subsection (a)(3), by reason of an election made by a member 
under subparagraph (B) of that subsection, the person may thereafter be 
insured under this subchapter in the maximum amount or any lesser amount 
elected as provided in such subparagraph (B) upon written application by 
the member, proof of good health of each person (other than a child) to 
be so insured, and compliance with such other terms and conditions as 
may be prescribed by the Secretary.''.
    (c) Termination of Coverage.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 1968 is 
amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``and any insurance thereunder on any insurable dependent of 
        such a member,'' after ``any insurance thereunder on any member 
        of the uniformed services,''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> With respect to an 
        insurable dependent of the member, insurance under this 
        subchapter shall cease--
                    ``(A) 120 days after the date of an election made in 
                writing by the member to terminate the coverage; or
                    ``(B) on the earliest of--
                          ``(i) 120 days after the date of the member's 
                      death;
                          ``(ii) 120 days after the date of termination 
                      of the insurance on the member's life under this 
                      subchapter; or
                          ``(iii) 120 days after the termination of the 
                      dependent's status as an insurable dependent of 
                      the member.''.

    (2) Such subsection is further amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``, 
        and such insurance shall cease--'' and inserting ``and such 
        insurance shall cease as follows:'';
            (B) by striking ``with'' after the paragraph designation in 
        each of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) and inserting 
        ``With'';
            (C) in paragraph (1)--
                    (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``thirty-one days--'' and inserting ``31 days, 
                insurance under this subchapter shall cease--'';
                    (ii) in subparagraph (A)--
                          (I) by striking ``one hundred and twenty 
                      days'' after ``(A)'' and inserting ``120 days''; 
                      and
                          (II) by striking ``prior to the expiration of 
                      one hundred and twenty days'' and inserting 
                      ``before the end of 120 days''; and
                    (iii) by striking the semicolon at the end of 
                subparagraph (B) and inserting a period;
            (D) in paragraph (2)--
                    (i) by striking ``thirty-one days'' and inserting 
                ``31 days,'';
                    (ii) by striking ``one hundred and twenty days'' 
                both places it appears and inserting ``120 days''; and
                    (iii) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
                inserting a period;
            (E) in paragraph (3)--
                    (i) by inserting a comma after ``competent 
                authority'';
                    (ii) by striking ``one hundred and twenty days'' 
                both places it appears and inserting ``120 days''; and
                    (iii) by striking ``; and'' at the end and inserting 
                a period; and
            (F) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``insurance under this 
        subchapter shall cease'' before ``120 days after'' the first 
        place it appears.

    (3) Subsection (b)(1)(A) of such section is amended by inserting 
``(to insure against death of the member only)'' after ``converted to 
Veterans' Group Life Insurance''.
    (d) Premiums.--Section 1969 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsections:
    ``(g)(1)(A) During any period in which a spouse of a member is 
insured under this subchapter and the member is on active duty, there 
shall be deducted each month from the member's basic or other pay until 
separation or release from active duty an amount determined by the 
Secretary as the premium allocable to the pay period for providing that 
insurance coverage. No premium may be charged for providing insurance 
coverage for a child.
    ``(B) During any month in which a member is assigned to the Ready 
Reserve of a uniformed service under conditions which meet the 
qualifications set forth in section 1965(5)(B) of this title and the 
spouse of the member is insured under a policy of insurance purchased by 
the Secretary under section 1966 of this title, there shall be 
contributed from the appropriation made for active duty pay of the 
uniformed service concerned an amount determined by the Secretary (which 
shall be the same for all such members) as the share of the cost 
attributable to insuring the spouse of such member under this policy, 
less any costs traceable to the extra hazards of such duty in the 
uniformed services. Any amounts so contributed on behalf of any 
individual shall be collected by the Secretary concerned from such 
individual (by deduction from pay or otherwise) and shall be credited to 
the appropriation from which such contribution was made.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary shall determine the premium amounts to be 
charged for life insurance coverage for spouses of members under this 
subchapter.
    ``(B) The premium amounts shall be determined on the basis of sound 
actuarial principles and shall include an amount necessary to cover the 
administrative costs to the insurer or insurers providing such 
insurance.
    ``(C) Each premium rate for the first policy year shall be continued 
for subsequent policy years, except that the rate may be adjusted for 
any such subsequent policy year on the basis of the experience under the 
policy, as determined by the Secretary in advance of that policy year.
    ``(h) Any overpayment of a premium for insurance coverage for an 
insurable dependent of a member that is terminated under section 
1968(a)(5) of this title shall be refunded to the member.''.
    (e) Payments of Insurance Proceeds.--Section 1970 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Any amount of insurance in force on an insurable dependent of 
a member under this subchapter on the date of the dependent's death 
shall be paid, upon the establishment of a valid claim therefor, to the 
member or, in the event of the member's death before payment to the 
member can be made, then to the person or persons entitled to receive 
payment of the proceeds of insurance on the member's life under this 
subchapter.''.
    (f ) Conversion of SGLI to Private Life Insurance.--Section 1968(b) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) In the case of a policy purchased under this subchapter for 
an insurable dependent who is a spouse, upon election of the spouse, the 
policy may be converted to an individual policy of insurance under the 
same conditions as described in section 1977(e) of this title (with 
respect to conversion of a Veterans' Group Life Insurance policy to such 
an individual policy) upon written application for conversion made to 
the participating company selected by the spouse and payment of the 
required premiums. Conversion of such policy to Veterans' Group Life 
Insurance is prohibited.
    ``(B) In the case of a policy purchased under this subchapter for an 
insurable dependent who is a child, such policy may not be converted 
under this subsection.''.
    (g) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 101 note.>> Date and Initial 
Implementation.--(1) The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the first day of the first month that begins more than 120 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (2) Each Secretary concerned, acting in consultation with the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall take such action as is necessary to 
ensure that during the period between the date of the enactment of this 
Act and the effective date determined under paragraph (1) each eligible 
member--
            (A) is furnished an explanation of the insurance benefits 
        available for dependents under the amendments made by this 
        section; and
            (B) is afforded an opportunity before such effective date to 
        make elections that are authorized under those amendments to be 
        made with respect to dependents.

    (3) For purposes of paragraph (2):
            (A) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (B) The term ``eligible member'' means a member of the 
        uniformed services described in subparagraph (A) or (C) of 
        section 1967(a)(1) of title 38, United States Code, as amended 
        by subsection (b)(1).

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 38 USC 1967 note.>> RETROACTIVE APPLICABILITY OF 
            INCREASE IN MAXIMUM SGLI BENEFIT FOR MEMBERS DYING IN 
            PERFORMANCE OF DUTY ON OR AFTER OCTOBER 1, 2000.

    (a) Applicability <<NOTE: Effective date.>> of Increase in 
Benefit.--Notwithstanding subsection (c) of section 312 of the Veterans 
Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 
114 Stat. 1854), the amendments made by subsection (a) of that section 
shall take effect on October 1, 2000, with respect to any member of the 
uniformed services who died in the performance of duty (as determined by 
the Secretary concerned) during the period beginning on October 1, 2000, 
and ending at the close of March 31, 2001, and who on the date of death 
was insured under the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance program under 
subchapter III of chapter 19 of title 38, United States Code, for the 
maximum coverage available under that program.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101(25) of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``uniformed services'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 1965(6) of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF OUTREACH EFFORTS TO ELIGIBLE DEPENDENTS.

    (a) Availability of Outreach Services for Children, Spouses, 
Surviving Spouses, and Dependent Parents.--Paragraph (2) of section 
7721(b) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) the term `eligible dependent' means a spouse, 
        surviving spouse, child, or dependent parent of a person who 
        served in the active military, naval, or air service.''.

    (b) Improved Outreach Program.--(1) Subchapter II of chapter 77 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``Sec. 7727. Outreach for eligible dependents

    ``(a) In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall ensure 
that the needs of eligible dependents are fully addressed.
    ``(b) The Secretary shall ensure that the availability of outreach 
services and assistance for eligible dependents under this subchapter is 
made known through a variety of means, including the Internet, 
announcements in veterans publications, and announcements to the 
media.''.
    (2) The table of sections at the beginning of that chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7726 the 
following new item:

``7727. Outreach for eligible dependents.''.

SEC. 7. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE MONTGOMERY GI BILL STATUTE.

    (a) Clarification of Eligibility Requirement for Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Clause (i) of section 3011(a)(1)(A), as 
        amended by section 103(a)(1)(A) of the Veterans Benefits and 
        Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 114 
        Stat. 1825), is amended by striking ``serves an obligated period 
        of active duty of'' and inserting ``(I) in the case of an 
        individual whose obligated period of active duty is three years 
        or more, serves at least three years of continuous active duty 
        in the Armed Forces, or (II) in the case of an individual whose 
        obligated period of active duty is less than three years, 
        serves''.
            (2) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 3011 note.>> date.--The 
        amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if enacted 
        on November 1, 2000, immediately after the enactment of the 
        Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 
        (Public Law 106-419).

    (b) Entitlement Charge for Off-Duty Training and Education.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3014(b)(2) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(without 
                regard to'' and all that follows through ``this 
                subsection''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:

    ``(C) The number of months of entitlement charged under this chapter 
in the case of an individual who has been paid a basic educational 
assistance allowance under this subsection shall be equal to the number 
(including any fraction) determined by dividing the total amount of such 
educational assistance allowance paid the individual by the full-time 
monthly institutional rate of educational assistance which such 
individual would otherwise be paid under subsection (a)(1), (b)(1), 
(c)(1), (d)(1), or (e)(1) of section 3015 of this title, as the case may 
be.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--(A) Section 3015 is amended--
                    (i) in subsections (a)(1) and (b)(1), by inserting 
                ``subsection (h)'' after ``from time to time under''; 
                and
                    (ii) by striking the subsection that was inserted as 
                subsection (g) by section 1602(b)(3)(C) of the Floyd D. 
                Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 2001 (as enacted by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 
                1654A-359) and redesignated as subsection (h) by 
                105(b)(2) of the Veterans Benefits and Health Care 
                Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 114 Stat. 
                1829).
            (B) Section 3032(b) is amended--
                    (i) by striking ``the lesser of'' and inserting 
                ``the least of the following:'';
                    (ii) by striking ``or'' after ``chapter,''; and
                    (iii) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, or (3) the amount of the charges of the 
                educational institution elected by the individual under 
                section 3014(b)(1) of this title''.
            (3) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 3014 note.>> date.--The 
        amendments made by this subsection shall take effect as if 
        enacted on November 1, 2000, immediately after the enactment of 
        the Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 
        (Public Law 106-419).

    (c) Incremental Increases for Contributing Active Duty Members.--
            (1) Active duty program.--Section 3011(e), as added by 
        section 105(a)(1) of the Veterans Benefits and Health Care 
        Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 114 Stat. 1828), is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, but not more 
                frequently than monthly'' before the period;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$4'' and 
                inserting ``$20''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) by striking ``Secretary. The'' and 
                      inserting ``Secretary of the military department 
                      concerned. That''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``by the Secretary''.
            (2) Selected reserve program.--Section 3012(f ), as added by 
        section 105(a)(2) of such Act, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, but not more 
                frequently than monthly'' before the period;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``$4'' and 
                inserting ``$20''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) by striking ``Secretary. The'' and 
                      inserting ``Secretary of the military department 
                      concerned. That''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``by the Secretary''.
            (3) Increased assistance amount.--Section 3015(g), as added 
        by section 105(b)(3) of such Act, is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``effective as of the first day of the 
                enrollment period following receipt of such 
                contributions from such individual by the Secretary 
                concerned,'' after ``by section 3011(e) or 3012(f ) of 
                this title,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                          (i) by striking ``$1'' and inserting ``$5'';
                          (ii) by striking ``$4'' and inserting ``$20''; 
                      and
                          (iii) by inserting ``of this title'' after 
                      ``section 3011(e) or 3012(f )''.
            (4) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 3011 note.>> date.--The 
        amendments made by this subsection shall take effect as if 
        included in the enactment of section 105 of the Veterans 
        Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 
        106-419; 114 Stat. 1828).

    (d) Death Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of section 3017(b) is amended 
        to read as follows:
            ``(1) the total of--
                    ``(A) the amount reduced from the individual's basic 
                pay under section 3011(b), 3012(c), 3018(c), 3018A(b), 
                3018B(b), 3018C(b), or 3018C(e) of this title;
                    ``(B) the amount reduced from the individual's 
                retired pay under section 3018C(e) of this title;
                    ``(C) the amount collected from the individual by 
                the Secretary under section 3018B(b), 3018C(b), or 
                3018C(e) of this title; and
                    ``(D) the amount of any contributions made by the 
                individual under section 3011(c) or 3012(f ) of this 
                title, less''.
            (2) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 3017 note.>> date.--The 
        amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as of May 1, 
        2001.

    (e) Clarification of Contributions Required by VEAP Participants Who 
Enroll in Basic Educational Assistance.--
            (1) Clarification.--Section 3018C(b), as amended by section 
        104(b) of the Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act 
        of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 114 Stat. 1828), is amended by 
        striking ``or (e)''.
            (2) Treatment <<NOTE: 38 USC 3018C note.>> of certain 
        contributions.--Any amount collected under section 3018C(b) of 
        title 38, United States Code (whether by reduction in basic pay 
        under paragraph (1) of that section, collection under paragraph 
        (2) of that section, or both), with respect to an individual who 
        enrolled in basic educational assistance under section 3018C(e) 
        of that title, during the period beginning on November 1, 2000, 
        and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be 
        treated as an amount collected with respect to the individual 
        under section 3018C(e)(3)(A) of that title (whether as a 
        reduction in basic pay under clause (i) of that section, a 
        collection under clause (ii) of that section, or both) for basic 
        educational assistance under section 3018C of that title.

    (f ) Clarification of Time Period for Election of Beginning of 
Chapter 35 Eligibility for Dependents.--
            (1) In general.--(A) Section 3512(a)(3)(B), as amended by 
        section 112 of the Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement 
        Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-419; 114 Stat. 1831), is amended to 
        read as follows:
                    ``(B) the eligible person elects that beginning date 
                by not later than the end of the 60-day period beginning 
                on the date on which the Secretary provides written 
                notice to that person of that person's opportunity to 
                make such election, such notice including a statement of 
                the deadline for the election imposed under this 
                subparagraph; and''.
            (B) Section 3512(a)(3)(C), as so amended, is amended by 
        striking ``between the dates described in'' and inserting ``the 
        date determined pursuant to''.
            (2) Effective <<NOTE: 38 USC 3512 note.>> date.--The 
        amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if enacted 
        on November 1, 2000, immediately after the enactment of the 
        Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000.

SEC. 8. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Title 38, United States Code.--Title 38, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective as of November 1, 
        2000, section 107 is amended--
                    (A) in the second sentence of subsection (a), by 
                inserting ``or (d)'' after ``subsection (c)'';
                    (B) by redesignating the second subsection (c) 
                (added by section 332(a)(2) of the Veterans Benefits and 
                Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-
                419)) as subsection (d); and
                    (C) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``In'' in paragraph (1) and inserting ``With 
                respect to benefits under chapter 23 of this title, 
                in''.
            (2) Section 1710B(c)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``on the 
        date of the enactment of the Veterans Millennium Health Care and 
        Benefits Act'' and inserting ``November 30, 1999''.
            (3) Section 2301(f ) is amended--
                    (A) in the matter in paragraph (1) preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``(as'' and all that 
                follows through ``in section'' and inserting ``(as 
                described in section''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``subparagraphs'' 
                and inserting ``subparagraph''.
            (4) Section 3452 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``or'' at the end of 
                      subparagraph (A); and
                          (ii) by striking ``clause (B) of this 
                      paragraph'' in subparagraph (C) and inserting 
                      ``subparagraph (B)'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(2)--
                          (i) by striking ``paragraph (1)(A) or (B)'' 
                      and inserting ``subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
                      paragraph (1)''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``one hundred and eighty 
                      days'' and inserting ``180 days'';
                    (C) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``section 
                511(d) of title 10'' and inserting ``section 12103(d) of 
                title 10''; and
                    (D) in subsection (e), by striking ``chapter 4C of 
                title 29,'' and inserting ``the Act of August 16, 1937, 
                popularly known as the `National Apprenticeship Act' (29 
                U.S.C. 50 et seq.),''.
            (5) Section 3462(a) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
            (6) Section 3512 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ``clause (4) 
                of this subsection'' and inserting ``paragraph (4)''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``willfull'' 
                and inserting ``willful''.
            (7) Section 3674 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``, effective at the 
                                beginning of fiscal year 1988,''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``section 
                                3674A(a)(4)'' and inserting ``section 
                                3674A(a)(3)'';
                          (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                      ``paragraph (3)(A)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                      (3)''; and
                          (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                      ``section 3674A(a)(4)'' and inserting ``section 
                      3674A(a)(3)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                          (i) by striking ``on September 30, 1978, 
                      and''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``thereafter,''.
            (8) Section 3674A(a)(2) is amended by striking ``clause 
        (1)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1)''.
            (9) Section 3734(a) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``United States Code,'' in the 
                matter preceding paragraph (1); and
                    (B) by striking ``appropriations in'' in paragraph 
                (2) and inserting ``appropriations for''.
            (10) Section 4104 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``Beginning with fiscal year 
                      1988,'' and inserting ``For any fiscal year,'';
                          (ii) by striking ``clause'' in subparagraph 
                      (B) and inserting ``subparagraph''; and
                          (iii) by striking ``clauses'' in subparagraph 
                      (C) and inserting ``subparagraphs'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ``on or after 
                July 1, 1988''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``shall--'' in the matter 
                      preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``shall 
                      perform the following functions:'';
                          (ii) by capitalizing the initial letter of the 
                      first word of each of paragraphs (1) through (12);
                          (iii) by striking the semicolon at the end of 
                      each of paragraphs (1) through (10) and inserting 
                      a period; and
                          (iv) by striking ``; and'' at the end of 
                      paragraph (11) and inserting a period.
            (11) Section 4303(13) is amended by striking the second 
        period at the end.
            (12) Section 5103(b)(1) is amended by striking ``1 year'' 
        and inserting ``one year''.
            (13) Section 5701(g) is amended by striking ``clause'' in 
        paragraphs (2)(B) and (3) and inserting ``subparagraph''.
            (14)(A) Section 7367 is repealed.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 73 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 7367.
            (15) Section 8125(d) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(beginning in 
                1992)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(beginning in 
                1993)''; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (3).
            (16) The following provisions are each amended by striking 
        ``hereafter'' and inserting ``hereinafter'': sections 545(a)(1), 
        1710B(e)(1), 3485(a)(1), 3537(a), 3722(a), 3763(a), 5121(a), 
        7101(a), 7105(b)(1), 7671, 7672(e)(1)(B), 7681(a)(1), 7801, and 
        8520(a).

    (b) Public <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Law 106-419.--Effective as of 
November 1, 2000, and as if included therein as originally enacted, the 
Veterans Benefits and Health Care Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 
106-419) is amended as follows:
            (1) <<NOTE: 38 USC 3564 note.>> Section 111(f )(3) (114 
        Stat. 1831) is amended by striking ``3654'' and inserting 
        ``3564''.
            (2) <<NOTE: 38 USC 4303.>> Section 323(a)(1) (114 Stat. 
        1855) is amended by inserting a comma in the second quoted 
        matter therein after ``duty''.
            (3) <<NOTE: 38 USC 1802.>> Section 401(e)(1) (114 Stat. 
        1860) is amended by striking ``this'' both places it appears in 
        quoted matter and inserting ``This''.
            (4) <<NOTE: 38 USC 3729.>> Section 402(b) (114 Stat. 1861) 
        is amended by striking the close quotation marks and period at 
        the end of the table in paragraph (2) of the matter inserted by 
        the amendment made that section.

    (c) Public Law 102-590.--Section 3(a)(1) of the Homeless Veterans 
Comprehensive Service Programs Act of 1992 (38 U.S.C. 7721 note) is 
amended by striking ``, during,''.

    Approved June 5, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 801:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-27 (Comm. on Veterans' Affairs).
            Mar. 27, considered and passed House.
            May 24, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>