[107th Congress Public Law 30]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ030.107]


[[Page 209]]

                 LITTLE SANDY RIVER WATERSHED PROTECTION

[[Page 115 STAT. 210]]

Public Law 107-30
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide further protections for the watershed of the Little Sandy 
River as part of the Bull Run Watershed Management Unit, Oregon, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 20, 2001 -  [H.R. 427]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. INCLUSION OF ADDITIONAL PORTION OF THE LITTLE SANDY RIVER 
            WATERSHED IN THE BULL RUN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT UNIT, OREGON.

    (a) In General.--Public Law 95-200 (16 U.S.C. 482b note; 91 Stat. 
1425) is amended by striking section 1 and inserting the following:

``SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT UNIT; 
            DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    ``(a) Definition of Secretary.--In this Act, the term `Secretary' 
means--
            ``(1) with respect to land administered by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            ``(2) with respect to land administered by the Secretary of 
        the Interior, the Secretary of the Interior.

    ``(b) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established, subject to valid 
        existing rights, a special resources management unit in the 
        State of Oregon, comprising approximately 98,272 acres, as 
        depicted on a map dated May 2000 and entitled `Bull Run 
        Watershed Management Unit'.
            ``(2) Map.--The map described in paragraph (1) shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in the offices of--
                    ``(A) the Regional Forester-Pacific Northwest Region 
                of the Forest Service; and
                    ``(B) the Oregon State Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management.
            ``(3) Boundary adjustments.--The Secretary may periodically 
        make such minor adjustments in the boundaries of the unit as are 
        necessary, after consulting with the city and providing for 
        appropriate public notice and hearings.''.

    (b) Conforming and Technical Amendments.--
            (1) Secretary.--Public Law 95-200 (16 U.S.C. 482b note; 91 
        Stat. 1425) is amended by striking ``Secretary of Agriculture'' 
        each place it appears (except subsection (b) of section 1, as 
        added by subsection (a), and except in the amendments made by 
        paragraph (2)) and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (2) Applicable law.--

[[Page 115 STAT. 211]]

                    (A) In general.--Section 2(a) of Public Law 95-200 
                (16 U.S.C. 482b note; 91 Stat. 1425) is amended by 
                striking ``applicable to National Forest System lands'' 
                and inserting ``applicable to land under the 
                administrative jurisdiction of the Forest Service (in 
                the case of land administered by the Secretary of 
                Agriculture) or applicable to land under the 
                administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
                Management (in the case of land administered by the 
                Secretary of the Interior)''.
                    (B) Management plans.--The first sentence of section 
                2(c) of Public Law 95-200 (16 U.S.C. 482b note; 91 Stat. 
                1426) is amended--
                          (i) by striking ``subsection (a) and (b)'' and 
                      inserting ``subsections (a) and (b)''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``, through the maintenance'' 
                      and inserting ``(in the case of land administered 
                      by the Secretary of Agriculture) or section 202 of 
                      the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                      (43 U.S.C. 1712) (in the case of land administered 
                      by the Secretary of the Interior), through the 
                      maintenance''.

SEC. 2. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Timber Cutting Restrictions.--Section 2(b) of Public Law 95-200 
(16 U.S.C. 482b note; 91 Stat. 1426) is amended by striking paragraph 
(1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall prohibit the cutting of trees on Federal land in the unit, 
        as designated in section 1 and depicted on the map referred to 
        in that section.''.

    (b) Repeal of Management Exception.--The Oregon Resource 
Conservation Act of 1996 (division B of Public Law 104-208) is amended 
by striking section 606 (110 Stat. 3009-543).
    (c) Repeal of Duplicative Enactment.--Section 1026 of division I of 
the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104-333; 110 Stat. 4228) and the amendments <<NOTE: 16 USC 482b note.>>  
made by that section are repealed.

    (d) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section strengthens, diminishes, 
or has any other effect on water rights held by any person or entity.

SEC. 3. LAND RECLASSIFICATION.

    (a) Oregon and California Railroad Land.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
and the Secretary of the Interior shall identify any Oregon and 
California Railroad land that is subject to the distribution provision 
of title II of the Act of August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181f), within the 
boundary of the special resources management area described in section 1 
of Public Law 95-200 (as amended by section 1(a)).
    (b) Public Domain Land.--
            (1) Definition of public domain land.--
                    (A) In general.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``public domain land'' has the meaning given the term 
                ``public land'' in section 103 of the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``public domain land'' does 
                not include any land managed under the Act of August 28, 
                1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181a et seq.).

[[Page 115 STAT. 212]]

            (2) Identification.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        identify public domain land within the Medford, Roseburg, 
        Eugene, Salem, and Coos Bay Districts and the Klamath Resource 
        Area of the Lakeview District of the Bureau of Land Management 
        in the State of Oregon that--
                    (A) is approximately equal in acreage and condition 
                as the land identified in subsection (a); but
                    (B) is not subject to the Act of August 28, 1937 (43 
                U.S.C. 1181a et seq.).

    (c) Maps.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to Congress and 
publish in the Federal Register 1 or more maps depicting the land 
identified in subsections (a) and (b).
    (d) Reclassification.--After providing an opportunity for public 
comment, the Secretary of the Interior shall administratively 
reclassify--
            (1) the land described in subsection (a), as public domain 
        land (as the term is defined in subsection (b)) that is not 
        subject to the distribution provision of title II of the Act of 
        August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181f); and
            (2) the land described in subsection (b), as Oregon and 
        California Railroad land that is subject to the Act of August 
        28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181a et seq.).

SEC. 4. FUNDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out, in accordance 
with section 323 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999 (16 U.S.C. 1101 note; 112 Stat. 2681-290), 
watershed restoration that protects or enhances water quality, or 
relates to the recovery of endangered species or threatened species 
listed under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
seq.), in Clackamas County, Oregon, $10,000,000.

    Approved August 20, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 427 (S. 254):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-151, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-23 accompanying S. 254 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            July 23, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 3, considered and passed Senate.