[107th Congress Public Law 238]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ238.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 1486]]

Public Law 107-238
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To modify the boundary of Vicksburg National Military Park to include 
     the property known as Pemberton's Headquarters, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 11, 2002 -  [S. 1175]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Vicksburg National Military 
Park Boundary Modification Act of 2002.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 430h note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Vicksburg National Military Park 
Boundary Modification Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 430h-10.>> BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

    The boundary of Vicksburg National Military Park is modified to 
include the property known as Pemberton's Headquarters, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary Map, Pemberton's Headquarters at 
Vicksburg National Military Park'', numbered 306/80015A, and dated 
August, 2001. The map shall be on file and available for inspection in 
the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 430h-11.>> ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.

    (a) Pemberton's Headquarters.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to acquire the properties described in section 2 and 3(b) by 
purchase, donation, or exchange, except that each property may only be 
acquired with the consent of the owner thereof.
    (b) Parking.--The Secretary is also authorized to acquire not more 
than one acre of land, or interest therein, adjacent to or near 
Pemberton's Headquarters for the purpose of providing parking and other 
facilities related to the operation of Pemberton's Headquarters. Upon 
the acquisition of the property referenced in this subsection, the 
Secretary add it to Vicksburg National Military Park and shall modify 
the boundaries of the park to reflect its inclusion.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 16 USC 430h-12.>> ADMINISTRATION.

    The Secretary shall administer any properties acquired under this 
Act as part of the Vicksburg National Military Park in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations.

[[Page 116 STAT. 1487]]

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 16 USC 430h-13.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved October 11, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1175 (H.R. 3307):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-508 accompanying H.R. 3307 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-183 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            July 24, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 24, considered and passed House.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 38 (2002):
            Oct. 11, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>