[107th Congress Public Law 329]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ329.107]

[[Page 116 STAT. 2815]]

Public Law 107-329
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To provide for the acquisition of land and construction of an 
   interagency administrative and visitor facility at the entrance to 
   American Fork Canyon, Utah, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 6, 
   2002 -  [S. 1240]>>     

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

    TITLE I--TIMPANOGOS <<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>>  INTERAGENCY LAND 
EXCHANGE

SEC. 101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the facility that houses the administrative office of 
        the Pleasant Grove Ranger District of the Uinta National Forest 
        can no longer properly serve the purpose of the facility;
            (2) a fire destroyed the Timpanogos Cave National Monument 
        Visitor Center and administrative office in 1991, and the 
        temporary structure that is used for a visitor center cannot 
        adequately serve the public; and
            (3) combining the administrative office of the Pleasant 
        Grove Ranger District with a new Timpanogos Cave National 
        Monument visitor center and administrative office in one 
        facility would--
                    (A) facilitate interagency coordination;
                    (B) serve the public better; and
                    (C) improve cost effectiveness.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to acquire by 
        exchange non-Federal land located in Highland, Utah as the site 
        for an interagency administrative and visitor facility;
            (2) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to construct an 
        administrative and visitor facility on the non-Federal land 
        acquired by the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (3) to direct the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior to cooperate in the development, construction, 
        operation, and maintenance of the facility.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Facility.--The term ``facility'' means the facility 
        constructed under section 106 to house--
                    (A) the administrative office of the Pleasant Grove 
                Ranger District of the Uinta National Forest; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2816]]

                    (B) the visitor center and administrative office of 
                the Timpanogos Cave National Monument.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        parcels of land and improvements to the land in the Salt Lake 
        Meridian comprising--
                    (A) approximately 237 acres located in T. 5 S., R. 3 
                E., sec. 13, lot 1, SW\1/4\, NE\1/4\, E\1/2\, NW\1/4\ 
                and E\1/2\, SW\1/4\, as depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Long Hollow-Provo Canyon Parcel'', dated March 12, 
                2001;
                    (B) approximately 0.18 acre located in T. 7 S., R. 2 
                E., sec. 12, NW\1/4\, as depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Provo Sign and Radio Shop'', dated March 12, 2001;
                    (C) approximately 20 acres located in T. 3 S., R. 1 
                E., sec. 33, SE\1/4\, as depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Corner Canyon Parcel'', dated March 12, 2001;
                    (D) approximately 0.18 acre located in T. 29 S., R. 
                7 W., sec. 15, S\1/2\, as depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Beaver Administrative Site'', dated March 12, 2001;
                    (E) approximately 7.37 acres located in T. 7 S., R. 
                3 E., sec. 28, NE\1/4\, SW\1/4\, NE\1/4\, as depicted on 
                the map entitled ``Springville Parcel'', dated March 12, 
                2001; and
                    (F) approximately 0.83 acre located in T. 5 S., R. 2 
                E., sec. 20, as depicted on the map entitled ``Pleasant 
                Grove Ranger District Parcel'', dated March 12, 2001.
            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the parcel of land in the Salt Lake Meridian comprising 
        approximately 37.42 acres located at approximately 4,400 West, 
        11,000 North (SR-92), Highland, Utah in T. 4 S., R. 2 E., sec. 
        31, NW\1/4\, as depicted on the map entitled ``The Highland 
        Property'', dated March 12, 2001.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

SEC. 103. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Availability of Maps.--The maps described in paragraphs (2) and 
(3) of section 102 shall be on file and available for public inspection 
in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service until the date on which 
the land depicted on the maps is exchanged under this title.
    (b) Technical Corrections to Legal Descriptions.--The Secretary may 
correct minor errors in the legal descriptions in paragraphs (2) and (3) 
of section 102.

SEC. 104. EXCHANGE OF LAND FOR FACILITY SITE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary may, under 
such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, convey by 
quitclaim deed all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land in exchange for the conveyance of the non-
Federal land.
    (b) Title to Non-Federal Land.--Before the land exchange takes place 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall determine that title to the 
non-Federal land is acceptable based on the approval standards 
applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
    (c) Valuation of Non-Federal Land.--
            (1) Determination.--The fair market value of the land and 
        the improvements on the land exchanged under this title shall be 
        determined by an appraisal that--
                    (A) is approved by the Secretary; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2817]]

                    (B) conforms with the Federal appraisal standards, 
                as defined in the publication entitled ``Uniform 
                Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions''.
            (2) Separate appraisals.--
                    (A) In general.--Each parcel of Federal land 
                described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of section 
                102(2) shall be appraised separately.
                    (B) Individual property values.--The property values 
                of each parcel shall not be affected by the unit rule 
                described in the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisitions.

    (d) Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding section 206(b) of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), the 
Secretary may, as the circumstances require, either make or accept a 
cash equalization payment in excess of 25 percent of the total value of 
the lands or interests transferred out of Federal ownership.
    (e) Administration of Land Acquisition by United States.--
            (1) Boundary adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--On acceptance of title by the 
                Secretary--
                          (i) the non-Federal land conveyed to the 
                      United States shall become part of the Uinta 
                      National Forest; and
                          (ii) the boundaries of the national forest 
                      shall be adjusted to include the land.
                    (B) Allocation of land and water conservation fund 
                moneys.--For purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water 
                Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-099), the 
                boundaries of the national forest, as adjusted under 
                this section, shall be considered to be boundaries of 
                the national forest as of January 1, 1965.
            (2) Applicable law.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Secretary shall manage any land acquired under this section in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) the Act of March 1, 1911 (16 U.S.C. 480 et seq.) 
                (commonly known as the ``Weeks Act''); and
                    (B) other laws (including regulations) that apply to 
                National Forest System land.

SEC. 105. DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

    (a) Deposit.--The Secretary shall deposit any cash equalization 
funds received in the land exchange in the fund established under Public 
Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a) (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'').
    (b) Use of Funds.--Funds deposited under subsection (a) shall be 
available to the Secretary, without further appropriation, for the 
acquisition of land and interests in land for administrative sites in 
the State of Utah and land for the National Forest System.

SEC. 106. CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF FACILITY.

    (a) Construction.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), as soon as 
        practicable after funds are made available to carry out this 
        title, the Secretary of the Interior shall construct, and bear 
        responsibility for all costs of construction of, a facility and 
        all necessary infrastructure on non-Federal land acquired under 
        section 104.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2818]]

            (2) Design and specifications.--Prior to construction, the 
        design and specifications of the facility shall be approved by 
        the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior.

    (b) Operation and Maintenance of Facility.--The facility shall be 
occupied, operated, and maintained jointly by the Secretary (acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service) and the Secretary of the 
Interior (acting through the Director of the National Park Service) 
under terms and conditions agreed to by the Secretary and the Secretary 
of the Interior.

SEC. 107. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

            TITLE II--UTAH PUBLIC LANDS ARTIFACT PRESERVATION

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the collection of the Utah Museum of Natural History in 
        Salt Lake City, Utah, includes more than 1,000,000 
        archaeological, paleontological, zoological, geological, and 
        botanical artifacts;
            (2) the collection of items housed by the Museum contains 
        artifacts from land managed by--
                    (A) the Bureau of Land Management;
                    (B) the Bureau of Reclamation;
                    (C) the National Park Service;
                    (D) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; and
                    (E) the Forest Service;
            (3) more than 75 percent of the Museum's collection was 
        recovered from federally managed public land; and
            (4) the Museum has been designated by the legislature of the 
        State of Utah as the State museum of natural history.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Museum.--The term ``Museum'' means the University of 
        Utah Museum of Natural History in Salt Lake City, Utah.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
SEC. 203. ASSISTANCE FOR UNIVERSITY OF UTAH MUSEUM OF NATURAL 
                        HISTORY.

    (a) <<NOTE: Grants.>>  Assistance for Museum.--The Secretary shall 
make a grant to the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, Utah, to pay 
the Federal share of the costs of construction of a new facility for the 
Museum, including the design, planning, furnishing, and equipping of the 
Museum.

    (b) Grant Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--To receive a grant under subsection (b), 
        the Museum shall submit to the Secretary a proposal for the use 
        of the grant.
            (2) Federal share.--The Federal share of the costs described 
        in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2819]]

    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

   TITLE III--SALT RIVER BAY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK AND ECOLOGICAL 
                      PRESERVE BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

SEC. 301. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The first sentence of section 103(b) of the Salt River Bay National 
Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, 
Act of 1992 (16 U.S.C. 410tt-1(b)) is amended to read as follows: ``The 
park shall consist of approximately 1015 acres of lands, waters, and 
interests in lands as generally depicted on the map entitled `Salt River 
Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve, St. Croix, 
U.S.V.I.', numbered 141/80002, and dated May 2, 2002.''.

    Approved December 6, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1240 (H.R. 3928):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-669 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-178 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Aug. 1, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 24, considered and passed House, amended.
            Nov. 19, Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>
 