[104th Congress Public Law 122]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ122.104]


[[Page 875]]

           FURTHER CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS, FISCAL YEAR 1996

[[Page 110 STAT. 876]]

Public Law 104-122
104th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1996, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 29, 1996 -  [H.J. Res. 170]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,
That Public Law 104-99 is further amended by striking out ``March 29, 
1996'' in sections 106(c), 112, 126(c), 202(c) and 214 <<NOTE: Ante, pp. 
27, 28, 33, 36, 38.>>  and inserting in lieu thereof ``April 24, 1996''; 
and that Public Law 104-92 is further amended by striking out ``April 3, 
1996'' in section 106(c) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 18.>>  and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``April 24, 1996'' and by inserting in title IV <<NOTE: Ante, p. 
21.>>  in the matter before section 401 ``out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and'' before ``out of the general 
fund''; and that section 347(b)(3) of Public Law 104-50 <<NOTE: 49 USC 
106 note.>>  is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) chapter 71, relating to labor-management relations;''; 
        and

that section 204(a) of the Auburn Indian Restoration Act (25 U.S.C. 
1300l-2(a)) is amended by striking ``shall'' in the first sentence and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``may''.
    Sec. 2. That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other purposes, namely:

       FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                   FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                  AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

           Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States

                     (including transfers of funds)

<<NOTE: Bosnia. Herzegovina.>>     For an additional amount for 
``Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States'' for Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, including demining assistance, $198,000,000: Provided, That 
of the funds appropriated under this heading by this Act that are made 
available for the economic revitalization program in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, not less than 87.5 percent shall be obligated and expended 
for programs, projects, and activities, within the sector assigned to 
American forces of the military Implementation Force (IFOR) established 
by the North Atlantic Council pursuant to the General Framework 
Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina and within the Sarajevo 
area: Provided further, That the preceding proviso shall not apply to 
any project that involves activities in

[[Page 110 STAT. 877]]

both the American IFOR sector and other contiguous sectors: Provided 
further, That priority consideration should be given to projects and 
activities designated in the IFOR ``Task Force Eagle civil military 
project list'' in making available funds for the economic revitalization 
program: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading by this Act shall be made available for the construction of 
new housing or residences in Bosnia and Herzegovina: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading by this Act or 
under this heading in Public Law 104-107 may be made available for the 
purposes of repairing housing in areas where refugees or displaced 
persons are refused, by Federation or local authorities, the right of 
return due to ethnicity or political party affiliation: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $5,000,000 may be transferred to ``Debt 
Restructuring'' to be made available only for the cost, as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying direct 
loans and loan guarantees, notwithstanding any other provision of law: 
Provided further, That $3,000,000 shall be transferred to ``Operating 
Expenses of the Agency for International Development'' for 
administrative expenses: Provided further, That the additional amount 
appropriated or otherwise made available herein is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability. Notification.>>  That 
the provisions of section 515 of Public Law 104-107, and any similar 
provision of law requiring advance notification to the Congress, shall 
be applicable to funds appropriated under this heading, except that the 
requirements of those provisions shall be satisfied by notification five 
days in advance of the obligation of such funds: Provided 
further: <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  That, effective ninety days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, none of the funds appropriated under 
this heading by this Act may be made available for the purposes of 
economic revitalization in Bosnia and Herzegovina unless the President 
determines and certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the aggregate bilateral contributions pledged by non-United States 
donors for economic revitalization are at least equivalent to the United 
States bilateral contributions for economic revitalization made by this 
Act and in Public Law 104-107: Provided further, That 50 percent of the 
funds appropriated under this heading by this Act that are made 
available for economic revitalization shall not be available for 
obligation unless the President determines and certifies to the 
Committees on Appropriations that the Federation of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina has complied with article III of Annex 1-A of the General 
Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the 
withdrawal of foreign forces, and that intelligence cooperation on 
training, investigations, and related activities between Iranian 
officials and Bosnian officials has been terminated: Provided further, 
That funds withheld from obligation pursuant to the previous proviso may 
be made available for obligation and expenditure after June 15, 1996, 
notwithstanding the previous proviso if the President determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that it is important to the 
national security interest of the United States to do so: Provided 
further, That the authority contained in the previous proviso to make 
such a determination may be exercised by the President only and may not 
be delegated: Provided further, That with regard to funds appropriated 
under this heading by this Act (and local

[[Page 110 STAT. 878]]

currencies generated by such funds) that are made available for economic 
revitalization, the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development shall provide written approval for grants and loans prior to 
the obligation and expenditure of funds for such purposes, and the 
Administrator shall receive the agreement of grantees that such funds 
shall be subject to audits by the Inspector General of the Agency for 
International Development: Provided further, That with regard to funds 
appropriated under this heading by this Act (and local currencies 
generated by such funds) that are made available for economic 
revitalization, the Administrator of the Agency for International 
Development shall provide written approval for the use of funds that 
have been returned or repaid to any lending facility and grantee under 
the economic revitalization program prior to the use of such returned or 
repaid funds: Provided further, <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  That, 
notwithstanding any provision of law under this heading in Public Law 
104-107, the provisions of section 532 of that Act shall be applicable 
to funds appropriated under this heading that are used under the 
economic revitalization program and to local currencies generated by 
such funds: Provided further,  That such local currencies may be used 
only for program purposes: Provided further, That for the purposes of 
this Act, local currency generations under the economic revitalization 
program shall include the conversion of funds appropriated under this 
heading into currency used by Bosnia and Herzegovina as local currency 
and local currency returned or repaid under such program.

    Approved March 29, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 170:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Mar. 29, considered and passed House and Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Mar. 29, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>