[104th Congress Public Law 173]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ173.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 1552]]

Public Law 104-173
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the extension of certain hydroelectric projects located 
 in the State of West Virginia. <<NOTE:  Aug. 6, 1996 -  [H.R. 1051]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified in 
section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
apply to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission projects numbered 6901 and 
6902, the Commission shall, upon the request of the licensee for those 
projects, in accordance with the good faith, due diligence, and public 
interest requirements of that section, the Commission's procedures under 
that section, and the procedures specified in that section, extend the 
time period during which the licensee is required to commence 
construction of those projects so as to terminate on October 3, 1999.
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall take effect for the 
projects upon the expiration of the extension, issued by the Commission 
under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806), of the period 
required for commencement of construction of the projects.
    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If a license for a project 
described in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license effective as of 
the date of its expiration and extend the time required for commencement 
of construction of the project until October 3, 1999.

    Approved August 6, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1051 (S. 359):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-319 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-71 accompanying S. 359 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 141 (1995):
                                    Nov. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 142 (1996):
                                    July 25, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>