[104th Congress Public Law 266]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ266.104]


[[Page 3289]]

        RECLAMATION RECYCLING AND WATER CONSERVATION ACT OF 1996

[[Page 110 STAT. 3290]]

Public Law 104-266
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 1996 -  [H.R. 3660]>> To make amendments to the 
Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act, and for 
                             other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Reclamation 
Recycling and Water Conservation Act of 1996.>> 

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h note.>> SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reclamation Recycling and Water 
Conservation Act of 1996''.

SEC. 2. WATER RECYCLING PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) is amended--
        <<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-13, 390h-14, 390h-15.>>     (1) by 
        redesignating sections 1615, 1616, and 1617 as 
        sections 1631, 1632, and 1633, respectively, and
            (2) by inserting after section 1614 the following new 
        sections:

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12a.>> ``SEC. 1615. NORTH SAN DIEGO COUNTY AREA 
            WATER RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the North San Diego County 
Area Water Recycling Project, consisting of projects to reclaim and 
reuse water within service areas of the San Elijo Joint Powers 
Authority, the Leucadia County Water District, the City of Carlsbad, and 
the Olivenhain Municipal Water District, California.

    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12b.>> ``SEC. 1616. CALLEGUAS MUNICIPAL WATER 
            DISTRICT RECYCLING PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the Calleguas Municipal Water 
District Recycling Project to reclaim and reuse water in the service 
area of the Calleguas Municipal Water District in Ventura County, 
California.

    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3291]]

    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12c.>> ``SEC. 1617. CENTRAL VALLEY WATER RECYCLING 
            PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the Central Valley Water 
Recycling Project to reclaim and reuse water in the service areas of the 
Central Valley Reclamation Facility and the Salt Lake County Water 
Conservancy District in Utah.

    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12d.>> ``SEC. 1618. ST. GEORGE AREA WATER RECYCLING 
            PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the St. George Area Water 
Recycling Project to reclaim and reuse water in the service area of the 
Washington County Water Conservancy District in Utah.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12e.>> ``SEC. 1619. WATSONVILLE AREA WATER RECYCLING 
            PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of 
Watsonville, California, is authorized to participate in the design, 
planning, and construction of the Watsonville Area Water Recycling 
Project to reclaim and reuse water in the Pajaro Valley in Santa Cruz 
County, California.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12f.>> ``SEC. 1620. SOUTHERN NEVADA WATER RECYCLING 
            PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the Southern Nevada Water 
Recycling Project to reclaim and reuse water in the service area of the 
Southern Nevada Water Authority in Clark County, Nevada.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in 
subsection (a).

[[Page 110 STAT. 3292]]

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12g.>> ``SEC. 1621. ALBUQUERQUE METROPOLITAN AREA 
            WATER 
            RECLAMATION AND REUSE STUDY.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the city of 
Albuquerque, New Mexico, is authorized to participate in the Albuquerque 
Metropolitan Area Water Reclamation and Reuse Study to reclaim and reuse 
industrial and municipal wastewater and reclaim and use naturally 
impaired ground water in the 
Albuquerque metropolitan area.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12h.>> ``SEC. 1622. EL PASO WATER RECLAMATION AND 
            REUSE PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the El Paso Water Reclamation 
and Reuse Project to reclaim and reuse wastewater in the service area of 
the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board, El Paso, Texas.

    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12i.>> ``SEC. 1623. RECLAIMED WATER IN PASADENA.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the City of Pasadena, 
California, reclaimed water project to obtain, store, and use reclaimed 
water in Pasadena and its service area, as well as neighboring 
communities.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12j.>> ``SEC. 1624. PHASE 1 OF THE ORANGE COUNTY 
            REGIONAL WATER 
            RECLAMATION PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of phase 1 of the Orange County 
Regional Water Reclamation Project, to reclaim and reuse water within 
the service area of the Orange County Water District in California.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in 
subsection (a).

[[Page 110 STAT. 3293]]

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12k.>> ``SEC. 1625. CITY OF WEST JORDAN WATER REUSE 
            PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of 
West Jordan, Utah, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, 
and construction of the City of West Jordan Water Reuse Project to 
recycle and reuse water in its service area from the South Valley Water 
Reclamation Facility Discharge Waters in Utah.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12l.>> ``SEC. 1626. HI-DESERT WATER DISTRICT IN 
            YUCCA VALLEY, 
            CALIFORNIA WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND REUSE FACILITY.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the Hi-Desert Water District 
in Yucca Valley, California wastewater collection and reuse facility.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12m.>> ``SEC. 1627. MISSION BASIN BRACKISH 
            GROUNDWATER DESALTING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of 
Oceanside, is authorized to participate in the design, 
planning, and construction of a 3,000,000 gallon per day expansion of 
the Mission Basin Brackish Groundwater Desalting Demonstration Project 
in Oceanside, California.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.

    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12n.>> ``SEC. 1628. TREATMENT OF EFFLUENT FROM THE 
            SANITATION 
            DISTRICTS OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY THROUGH THE CITY OF LONG 
            BEACH.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the Water 
Replenishment District of Southern California, the Orange County Water 
District in the State of California, and other appropriate authorities, 
is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction 
of water reclamation and reuse projects to treat approximately 10,000 
acre-feet per year of effluent from the sanitation districts of Los 
Angeles County through the city of Long Beach.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3294]]

    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12o.>> ``SEC. 1629. SAN JOAQUIN AREA WATER RECYCLING 
            AND REUSE PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
appropriate State and local authorities, is authorized to participate in 
the design, planning, and construction of the San Joaquin Area Water 
Recycling and Reuse Project, in cooperation with the City of Tracy, and 
consisting of participating projects which will reclaim and reuse water 
within the County of San Joaquin in California.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).

<<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-12p.>> ``SEC. 1630. TOOELE WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND 
            REUSE PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with Tooele 
City, Utah, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Tooele Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Project.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation or maintenance of a project described in subsection (a).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        <<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-13.>>     (1) Section 1631 of such Act, as 
        redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended by striking out 
        ``1614'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``1630''.
        <<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-14.>>     (2) Section 1632(c) of such Act, 
        as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended by striking out 
        ``section 1617'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 1633''.
        <<NOTE: 43 USC 390h-15.>>     (3) Section 1633 of such Act, as 
        redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended by striking out 
        ``section 1616'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``section 1632''.

    (c) Clerical Amendments.--The table of sections in section 2 of the 
Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating the items relating to sections 1615, 
        1616, and 1617 as items relating to sections 1631, 1632, and 
        1633, respectively, and
            (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 1614 the 
        following new items:

``Sec. 1615. North San Diego County Area Water Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1616. Calleguas Municipal Water District Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1617. Central Valley Water Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1618. St. George Area Water Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1619. Watsonville Area Water Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1620. Southern Nevada Water Recycling Project.
``Sec. 1621. Albuquerque Metropolitan Area Water Reclamation and Reuse 
           Study.
``Sec. 1622. El Paso Water Reclamation and Reuse Project.
``Sec. 1623. Reclaimed Water in Pasadena.
``Sec. 1624. Phase 1 of the Orange County Regional Water Reclamation 
           Project.
``Sec. 1625. City of West Jordan Water Reuse Project.
``Sec. 1626. Hi-Desert Water District in Yucca Valley, California 
           Wastewater Collection and Reuse Facility.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3295]]

``Sec. 1627. Mission Basin Brackish Groundwater Desalting Demonstration 
           Project.
``Sec. 1628. Treatment of effluent from the sanitation districts of Los 
           Angeles 
           County through the City of Long Beach.
``Sec. 1629. San Joaquin Area Water Recycling and Reuse Project.
``Sec. 1630. Tooele Wastewater Treatment and Reuse Project.''.

SEC. 3. APPRAISAL INVESTIGATIONS.

    Section 1603(b) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-1(b)) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``by the Secretary or the non-
Federal project sponsor'' after ``undertaken''.

SEC. 4. FEASIBILITY STUDIES.

    Section 1604(c) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-2(c)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``authorized'' and inserting ``conducted by the Secretary or the 
        non-Federal project sponsor'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by inserting ``at least two alternative'' after 
                ``(3)'',
                    (B) by striking ``and'' after ``measures'' and 
                inserting ``or'', and
                    (C) by inserting ``for the project under 
                consideration'' after ``reuse'';
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and,'' at the end;
            (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``or'' at the end of 
        subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end of 
        subparagraph (B) and inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the 
        end the following:
                    ``(C) reduce the demand on existing Federal water 
                supply facilities;''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) the market or dedicated use for reclaimed water in the 
        project's service area; and
            ``(7) the financial capability of the non-Federal project 
        sponsor to fund its proportionate share of the project's 
        construction costs on an annual basis.''.

SEC. 5. DESALINATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.

    Section 1605 of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-3) is amended--
            (1) by designating the existing text as subsection (a); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b)(1) The Secretary, in cooperation with the city of Long Beach, 
the Central Basin Municipal Water District, and the Metropolitan Water 
District of Southern California may participate in the design, planning, 
and construction of the Long Beach Desalination Research and Development 
Project in Los Angeles County, California.
    ``(2) The Federal share of the cost of the project described in 
paragraph (1) shall not exceed 50 percent of the total.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation or 
maintenance of the project described in paragraph (1).
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary, in cooperation with the Southern Nevada 
Water Authority, may participate in the design, planning, and 
construction of the Las Vegas Area Shallow Aquifer Desalination Research 
and Development Project in Clark County, Nevada.
    ``(2) The Federal share of the cost of the project described in 
paragraph (1) shall not exceed 50 percent of the total.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3296]]

    ``(3) The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation or 
maintenance of the project described in paragraph (1).
    ``(d) A Federal contribution in excess of 25 percent for a project 
under this section may not be made until after the Secretary determines 
that the project is not feasible without such Federal contribution.''.

SEC. 6. SAN FRANCISCO AREA WATER RECLAMATION STUDY.

    Section 1611(c) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-9(c)) is amended by striking 
``four'' and inserting ``five''.

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 1631 of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and 
Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-13), as amended by section 2 of 
this Act, is amended by inserting ``(a)'' before ``There are 
authorized'' and by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b)(1) Funds may not be appropriated for the construction of any 
project authorized by this title until after--
            ``(A) an appraisal investigation and a feasibility study 
        that complies with the provisions of sections 1603(b) or 
        1604(c), as the case may be, have been completed by the 
        Secretary or the non-Federal project sponsor;
            ``(B) the Secretary has determined that the non-Federal 
        project sponsor is financially capable of funding the non-
        Federal share of the project's costs; and
            ``(C) the Secretary has approved a cost-sharing agreement 
        with the non-Federal project sponsor which commits the non-
        Federal project sponsor to funding its proportionate share of 
        the project's construction costs on an annual basis.

    ``(2) The requirements of paragraph (1) shall not apply to those 
projects authorized by this title for which funds were appropriated 
prior to January 1, 1996.
    ``(c) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  The Secretary shall notify the 
Committees on Resources and Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and 
Appropriations of the Senate within 30 days after the signing of a cost-
sharing agreement pursuant to subsection (b) that such an agreement has 
been signed and that the Secretary has determined that the non-Federal 
project sponsor is financially capable of funding the project's non-
Federal share of the project's costs.

    ``(d)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title and 
except as provided by paragraph (2), the Federal share of the costs of 
each of the individual projects authorized by this title shall not 
exceed $20,000,000 (October 1996 prices).

[[Page 110 STAT. 3297]]

    ``(2) In the case of any project authorized by this title for which 
construction funds were appropriated before January 1, 1996, the Federal 
share of the cost of such project may not exceed the amount specified as 
the `total Federal obligation' for that project in the budget 
justification made by the Bureau of Reclamation for fiscal year 1997, as 
contained in part 3 of the report of the hearing held on March 27, 1996, 
before the Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development of the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.''.

    Approved October 9, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3660:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-703 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Sept. 4, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 28, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>