[104th Congress Public Law 53]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ53.104]

               LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 1996

[[Page 109 STAT. 514]]

Public Law 104-53
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
  ending September 30, 1996, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 19, 
                         1995 -  [H.R. 2492]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1996.>>  That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS <<NOTE: Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1996. 2 USC 60a note.>> 

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $69,727,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,513,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $325,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,195,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 515]]

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $656,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $996,000 for each such committee; in all, $1,992,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $360,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
 Policy Committee, $965,000 for each such committee, in all, $1,930,000.

    For Office of the Chaplain, $192,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $12,128,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $31,889,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,047,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $15,500,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,381,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$936,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 516]]

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                              of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $66,395,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $305,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,266,000.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $61,347,000.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $6,644,000.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$204,029,000.

               Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Fair Employment 
Practices, $778,000.

                     Settlements and Awards Reserve

    For expenses for settlements and awards, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       stationery (revolving fund)

    For stationery for the President of the Senate, $4,500, for officers 
of the Senate and the Conference of the Majority and Conference of the 
Minority of the Senate, $8,500; in all, $13,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 517]]

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
                              $11,000,000.

    Of the funds previously appropriated under the heading ``SENATE'', 
$63,544,724.12 are rescinded.

                        administrative provisions

    Section 1. <<NOTE: Effective dates. 2 USC 43 note.>> (a) On and 
after October 1, 1995, no Senator shall receive mileage under section 17 
of the Act of July 28, 1866 (2 U.S.C. 43).

    (b) <<NOTE: 2 USC 43a note.>> On and after October 1, 1995, the 
President of the Senate shall not receive mileage under the first 
section of the Act of July 8, 1935 (2 U.S.C. 43a).

    Sec. 2. (a) <<NOTE: Nomenclature. 2 USC 61d-3.>> There is 
established in the Treasury of the United States within the contingent 
fund of the Senate a revolving fund, to be known as the ``Office of the 
Chaplain Expense Revolving Fund'' (hereafter referred to as the 
``fund''). The fund shall consist of all moneys collected or received 
with respect to the Office of the Chaplain of the Senate.

    (b) The fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation for 
disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate, not to exceed $10,000 in 
any fiscal year, for the payment of official expenses incurred by the 
Chaplain of the Senate. In addition, moneys in the fund may be used to 
purchase food or food related items. The fund shall not be available for 
the payment of salaries.
    (c) All moneys (including donated moneys) received or collected with 
respect to the Office of the Chaplain of the Senate shall be deposited 
in the fund and shall be available for purposes of this section.
    (d) Disbursements from the fund shall be made on vouchers approved 
by the Chaplain of the Senate.
    Sec. 3. Funds appropriated under the heading, ``Settlements and 
Awards Reserve'' in Public Law 103-283 shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 4. Section 902 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1983 (2 
U.S.C. 88b-6) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting 
the following: ``The amounts so withheld shall be deposited in the 
revolving fund, within the contingent fund of the Senate, for the Daniel 
Webster Senate Page Residence, as established by section 4 of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995 (2 U.S.C. 88b-7).''.
    Sec. 5. <<NOTE: 2 USC 58a note.>> (a) Any payment for local and long 
distance telecommunications service provided to any user by the Sergeant 
at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate shall cover the total invoiced 
amount, including any amount relating to separately identified toll 
calls, and shall be charged to the appropriation for the fiscal year in 
which the underlying base service period covered by the invoice ends.

    (b) As used in subsection (a), the term ``user'' means any Senator, 
Officer of the Senate, Committee, office, or entity provided telephone 
equipment and services by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate.

[[Page 109 STAT. 518]]

    Sec. 6. Section 4(b) of Public Law 103-283 <<NOTE: 2 USC 88b-7.>>  
is amended by inserting before ``collected'' the following: ``(including 
donated moneys)''.

    Sec. 7. Section 1 of Public Law 101-520 (2 U.S.C. 61g-6a) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``Section 1. (a)(1) The Chairman of the Majority or Minority Policy 
Committee of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her 
election transfer funds from the appropriation account for salaries for 
the Majority and Minority Policy Committees of the Senate, to the 
account, within the contingent fund of the Senate, from which expenses 
are payable for such committees.
    ``(2) The Chairman of the Majority or Minority Policy Committee of 
the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her election transfer 
funds from the appropriation account for expenses, within the contingent 
fund of the Senate, for the Majority and Minority Policy Committees of 
the Senate, to the account from which salaries are payable for such 
committees.
    ``(b)(1) The Chairman of the Majority or Minority Conference 
Committee of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her 
election transfer funds from the appropriation account for salaries for 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees of the Senate, to the 
account, within the contingent fund of the Senate, from which expenses 
are payable for such committees.
    ``(2) The Chairman of the Majority or Minority Conference Committee 
of the Senate may, during any fiscal year, at his or her election 
transfer funds from the appropriation account for expenses, within the 
contingent fund of the Senate, for the Majority and Minority Conference 
Committees of the Senate, to the account from which salaries are payable 
for such committees.
    ``(c) Any funds transferred under this section shall be--
            ``(1) available for expenditure by such committee in like 
        manner and for the same purposes as are other moneys which are 
        available for expenditure by such committee from the account to 
        which the funds were transferred; and
            ``(2) made at such time or times as the Chairman shall 
        specify in writing to the Senate Disbursing Office.

    ``(d) <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Chairman of a committee 
transferring funds under this section shall notify the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate of the transfer.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 61g-6a note.>> The amendment made 
by this section shall take effect on October 1, 1995, and shall be 
effective with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after that date.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$671,561,000,  as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $11,271,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,478,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,470,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,480,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the

[[Page 109 STAT. 519]]

Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $928,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $918,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $376,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $664,000; Republican Conference, $1,083,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,181,000; Democratic Caucus, $566,000; 
and nine minority employees, $1,127,000.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

    Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                              Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $360,503,000: Provided, That 
no such funds shall be used for the purposes of sending unsolicited mass 
mailings within 90 days before an election in which the Member is a 
candidate.

                           Committee Employees

                 Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $78,629,000.

                       Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$16,945,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed.

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $83,733,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not to exceed $1,000 for official 
representation and reception expenses, $13,807,000; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position 
of Superintendent of Garages, and including not to exceed $750 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $3,410,000; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, 
$53,556,000, including salaries, expenses and temporary personal 
services of House Information Resources, $27,500,000, of which 
$16,000,000 is provided herein: Provided, That House Information 
Resources is authorized to receive reimbursement from Members of the 
House of Representatives and other governmental entities for services 
provided and such reimbursement shall be deposited in the Treasury for 
credit to this account; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Inspector General, $3,954,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of Compliance, $858,000; Office of the Chaplain, $126,000; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Parliamentarian, including the

[[Page 109 STAT. 520]]

Parliamentarian and $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, 
$1,180,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision 
Counsel of the House, $1,700,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Legislative Counsel of the House, $4,524,000; and other 
authorized employees, $618,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $120,480,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $1,213,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $1,000,000; 
reemployed annuitants reimbursements, $68,000; Government contributions 
to employees' life insurance fund, retirement funds, Social Security 
fund, Medicare fund, health benefits fund, and worker's and unemployment 
compensation, $117,541,000; and miscellaneous items including purchase, 
exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor vehicles, 
interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased 
employees of the House, $658,000.

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 101. <<NOTE: Effective date. Mail. 2 USC 117j.>> Effective with 
respect to fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1995, in the case of 
mail from outside sources presented to the Chief Administrative Officer 
of the House of Representatives (other than mail through the Postal 
Service and mail with postage otherwise paid) for internal delivery in 
the House of Representatives, the Chief Administrative Officer is 
authorized to collect fees equal to the applicable postage. Amounts 
received by the Chief Administrative Officer as fees under the preceding 
sentence shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

    Sec. 102. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 117k.>> Effective with 
respect to fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1995, amounts 
received by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives from the Administrator of General Services for rebates 
under the Government Travel Charge Card Program shall be deposited in 
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

    Sec. 103. <<NOTE: 2 USC 74a-3, 74a-3 note, 74a-7, 74c note.>> The 
provisions of section 223(b) of House Resolution 6, One Hundred Fourth 
Congress, agreed to January 5 (legislative day, January 4), 1995, 
establishing the Speaker's Office for Legislative Floor Activities; 
House Resolution 7, One Hundred Fourth Congress, agreed to January 5 
(legislative day, January 4), 1995, providing for the designation of 
certain minority employees; House Resolution 9, One Hundred Fourth 
Congress, agreed to January 5 (legislative day, January 4), 1995, 
providing amounts for the Republican Steering Committee
and the Democratic Policy Committee; House Resolution 10, One Hundred 
Fourth Congress, agreed to January 5 (legislative day, January 4), 1995, 
providing for the

[[Page 109 STAT. 521]]

transfer of two employee positions; and House Resolution 113, One 
Hundred Fourth Congress, agreed to March 10, 1995, providing for the 
transfer of certain employee positions shall each be the permanent law 
with respect thereto.

    Sec. 104. (a) The five statutory positions specified in subsection 
(b), subsection (c), and subsection (d) are transferred from the House 
Republican Conference to the Republican Steering Committee.

    (b) The first two of the five positions referred to in subsection 
(a) are--
            (1) the position established for the chief deputy majority 
        whip by subsection (a) of the first section of House Resolution 
        393, Ninety-fifth Congress, agreed to March 31, 1977, as enacted 
        into permanent law by section 115 of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriation Act, 1978 (2 U.S.C. 74a-3); and
            (2) the position established for the chief deputy majority 
        whip by section 102(a)(4) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1990;

both of which positions were transferred to the majority leader by House 
Resolution 10, One Hundred Fourth Congress, agreed to January 5 
(legislative day, January 4), 1995, as enacted into permanent law by 
section 103 of this Act, and both of which positions were further 
transferred to the House Republican Conference by House Resolution 113, 
One Hundred Fourth Congress, agreed to March 10, 1995, as enacted into 
permanent law by section 103 of this Act.

    (c) The second two of the five positions referred to in subsection 
(a) are the two positions established by section 103(a)(2) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1986.

    (d) The fifth of the five positions referred to in subsection (a) is 
the position for the House Republican Conference established by House 
Resolution 625, Eighty-ninth Congress, agreed to October 22, 1965, as 
enacted into permanent law by section 103 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriation Act, 1967.

    (e) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> The transfers under this section shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: 2 USC 72a note.>> (a) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, or any rule, regulation, or other authority, travel 
for studies and examinations under section 202(b) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(b)) shall be governed by 
applicable laws or regulations of the House of Representatives or as 
promulgated from time to time by the Chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Subsection (a) shall take effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to travel 
performed on or after that date.

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 96a note.>> (a) 
Notwithstanding the paragraph under the heading ``general provision'' in 
chapter XI of the Third Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1957 (2 U.S.C. 
102a) or any other provision of law, effective on the date of the 
enactment of this section, unexpended balances in accounts described in 
subsection (b) are withdrawn, with unpaid obligations to be liquidated 
in the manner provided in the second sentence of that paragraph.

    (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are the House of 
Representatives legislative service organization revolving accounts 
under section 311 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1994 (2 
U.S.C. 96a).

[[Page 109 STAT. 522]]

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: 2 USC 123b note.>> (a) Each fund and account 
specified in subsection (b) shall be available only to the extent 
provided in appropriations Acts.

    (b) The funds and accounts referred to in subsection (a) are--
            (1) the revolving fund for the House Barber Shops, 
        established by the paragraph under the heading ``House Barber 
        Shops Revolving Fund'' in the matter relating to the House of 
        Representatives in chapter III of title I of the Supplemental 
        Appropriations Act, 1975 (Public Law 93-554; 88 Stat. 1776);
            (2) the revolving fund for the House Beauty Shop, 
        established by the matter under the heading ``house beauty 
        shop'' in the matter relating to administrative provisions for 
        the House of Representatives in the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriation Act, 1970 (Public Law 91-145; 83 Stat. 347);
            (3) the special deposit account established for the House of 
        Representatives Restaurant by section 208 of the First 
        Supplemental Civil Functions Appropriation Act, 1941 (40 U.S.C. 
        174k note); and
            (4) the revolving fund established for the House Recording 
        Studio by section 105(g) of the Legislative Branch Appropriation 
        Act, 1957 (2 U.S.C. 123b(g)).

    (c) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall take effect on 
October 1, 1995, and shall apply with respect to fiscal years beginning 
on or after that date.

    Sec. 107A. For fiscal year 1996, subject to the direction of the 
Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives, of the 
total amount deposited in the account referred to in section 107(b)(3) 
of this Act from vending operations of the House of Representatives 
Restaurant System, the cost of goods sold shall be available to pay the 
cost of inventory for such operations.
    Sec. 108. The House Employees Position Classification Act (2 U.S.C. 
291, et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3(1), <<NOTE: 2 USC 292.>> by striking out 
        ``Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster,'' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof ``Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector 
        General'';
            (2) in the first sentence of section 4(b), <<NOTE: 2 USC 
        293.>> by striking out ``Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster,'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``Chief Administrative Officer, and 
        the Inspector General'';
            (3) in section 5(b)(1), <<NOTE: 2 USC 294.>> by striking out 
        ``Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General''; and
            (4) in the first sentence of section 5(c), by striking out 
        ``Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster,'' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof ``Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector 
        General''.

    Sec. 109. <<NOTE: Compensation. 2 USC 60o.>> (a) Upon the approval 
of the appropriate employing authority, an employee of the House of 
Representatives who is separated from employment, may be paid a lump sum 
for the accrued annual leave of the employee. The lump sum--
            (1) shall be paid in an amount not more than the lesser of--
                    (A) the amount of the monthly pay of the employee, 
                as determined by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
                House of Representatives; or
                    (B) the amount equal to the monthly pay of the 
                employee, as determined by the Chief Administrative 
                Officer of the House of Representatives, divided by 30, 
                and multiplied by the number of days of the accrued 
                annual leave of the employee;

[[Page 109 STAT. 523]]

            (2) shall be paid--
                    (A) for clerk hire employees, from the clerk hire 
                allowance of the Member;
                    (B) for committee employees, from amounts 
                appropriated for committees; and
                    (C) for other employees, from amounts appropriated 
                to the employing authority; and
            (3) shall be based on the rate of pay in effect with respect 
        to the employee on the last day of employment of the employee.

    (b) The Committee on House Oversight shall have authority to 
prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
    (c) As used in this section, the term ``employee of the House of 
Representatives'' means an employee whose pay is disbursed by the Clerk 
of the House of Representatives or the Chief Administrative Officer of 
the House of Representatives, as applicable, except that such term does 
not include a uniformed or civilian support employee under the Capitol 
Police Board.
    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Payments under this section may be 
made with respect to separations from employment taking place after June 
30, 1995.

    Sec. 110. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> (a)(1) Effective on the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the allowances for office personnel and 
equipment for certain Members of the House of Representatives, as 
adjusted through the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, 
are further adjusted as specified in paragraph (2).

    (2) The further adjustments referred to in paragraph (1) are as 
follows:
            (A) The allowance for the majority leader is increased by 
        $167,532.
            (B) The allowance for the majority whip is decreased by 
        $167,532.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the House of Representatives allowances referred 
to in paragraph (2), as adjusted through the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act, are further adjusted, or are established, as the 
case may be, as specified in paragraph (2).

    (2) The further adjustments and the establishment referred to in 
paragraph (1) are as follows:
            (A) The allowance for the Republican Conference is increased 
        by $134,491.
            (B) The allowance for the Republican Steering Committee is 
        established at $66,995.
            (C) The allowance for the Democratic Steering and Policy 
        Committee is increased by $201,430.
            (D) The allowance for the Democratic Caucus is increased by 
        $56.
                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        joint economic committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,000,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       joint committee on printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$750,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

[[Page 109 STAT. 524]]

                       joint committee on taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$5,116,000, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House.

    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Attending Physician's office; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each to 
not to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistance; and (4) $852,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,260,000, to be disbursed by 
the Clerk of the House.
                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries, including overtime, 
hazardous duty pay differential, clothing allowance of not more than 
$600 each for members required to wear civilian attire, and Government 
contributions to employees' benefits funds, as authorized by law, of 
officers, members, and employees of the Capitol Police, $70,132,000, of 
which $34,213,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
Representatives, to be disbursed by the Clerk of the House, and 
$35,919,000 is provided to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, 
of the amounts appropriated under this heading, such amounts as may be 
necessary may be transferred between the Sergeant at Arms of the House 
of Representatives and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate, upon approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
   Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical services, 
forensic services, stenographic services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and $85 per month for 
extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board by an employee of 
the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of Representatives 
designated by the Chairman of the Board, $2,560,000, to be disbursed by 
the Clerk

[[Page 109 STAT. 525]]

of the House of Representatives: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the cost of basic training for the Capitol 
Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 
1996 shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury from funds available 
to the Department of the Treasury.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 111. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1996 for the Capitol 
Police Board under the heading ``Capitol Police'' may be transferred 
between the headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'', upon 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $1,991,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That none of these funds shall be used to employ more 
than forty individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board 
is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than one hundred twenty days each, 
and not more than ten additional individuals for not more than six 
months each, for the Capitol Guide Service.
                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the first session of the One Hundred Fourth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 112. Section 310 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1990 (2 U.S.C. 130e), is amended--
            (1) by striking out ``Clerk'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
        ``Sergeant at Arms''; and
            (2) by striking out ``Librarian of Congress'' and inserting 
        in lieu thereof ``Architect of the Capitol''.

                          Office of Compliance

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of Public Law 104-1, the Congressional Accountability Act 
of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $2,500,000, of which $500,000 shall be 
transferred from the amount provided for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of Compliance under the headings ``HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES'', 
``Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Salaries, Officers and Employees''.

[[Page 109 STAT. 526]]

                     Office of Technology Assessment

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the orderly closure 
of the Office of Technology Assessment, $3,615,000, of which $150,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 1997. Upon enactment of this 
Act, $2,500,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading in Public 
Law 103-283 shall remain available until September 30, 1996: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available in this Act shall be available for 
salaries or expenses of any employee of the Office of Technology 
Assessment in excess of 17 employees except for severance pay purposes.

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Severance pay. 2 USC 471 note.>> Upon enactment of 
this Act all employees of the Office of Technology Assessment for 183 
days preceding termination of employment who are terminated as a result 
of the elimination of the Office and who are not otherwise gainfully 
employed may continue to be paid by the Office of Technology Assessment 
at their respective salaries for a period not to exceed 60 calendar days 
following the employee's date of termination or until the employee 
becomes otherwise gainfully employed whichever is earlier. Any day for 
which a former employee receives a payment under this section shall be 
counted as Federal service for purposes of determining entitlement to 
benefits, including retirement, annual and sick leave earnings, and 
health and life insurance. A statement in writing to the Director of the 
Office of Technology Assessment or his designee by any such employee 
that he was not gainfully employed during such period or the portion 
thereof for which payment is claimed shall be accepted as prima facie 
evidence that he was not so employed.

    Sec. 114. <<NOTE: 2 USC 471 note.>> Notwithstanding the provisions 
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as 
amended, or any other provision of law, upon the abolition of the Office 
of Technology Assessment, all records and property of the Office 
(including the Unix system, all computer hardware and software, all 
library collections and research materials, and all photocopying 
equipment), shall be under the administrative control of the Architect 
of the Capitol. Not later than December 31, 1995, the Architect shall 
submit a proposal to transfer such records and property to appropriate 
support agencies of the Legislative Branch which request such transfer, 
and shall carry out such transfer subject to the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
to exceed $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $24,288,000: Provided, That none 
of these funds shall be available for the purchase or hire of a 
passenger motor vehicle: Provided further, That

[[Page 109 STAT. 527]]

none of the funds in this Act shall be available for salaries or 
expenses of any employee of the Congressional Budget Office in excess of 
232 full-time equivalent positions: Provided further, That any sale or 
lease of property, supplies, or services to the <<NOTE: 2 USC 
605.>> Congressional Budget Office shall be deemed to be a sale or lease 
of such property, supplies, or services to the Congress subject to 
section 903 of Public Law 98-63: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office shall have the authority, <<NOTE: 2 USC 
606.>> within the limits of available appropriations, to dispose of 
surplus or obsolete personal property by inter-agency transfer, 
donation, or discarding.
                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 115. Section 8402(c) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:

    ``(7) The Director of the Congressional Budget Office may exclude 
from the operation of this chapter an employee under the Congressional 
Budget Office whose employment is temporary or intermittent.''.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                 Office of the Architect of the Capitol

                                salaries

    For the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant Architect of the 
Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay provided by law, 
                               $8,569,000.

    Appropriations <<NOTE: 40 USC 166a.>> under the control of the 
Architect of the Capitol shall be available for expenses of travel on 
official business not to exceed in the aggregate under all funds the sum 
of $20,000.

                           Contingent Expenses

    To enable the Architect of the Capitol to make surveys and studies, 
and to meet unforeseen expenses in connection with activities under his 
care, $100,000.

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol and electrical substations of the Senate and House office 
buildings, under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, 
including furnishings and office equipment; including not to exceed 
$1,000 for official reception and representation expenses, to be 
expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; purchase or 
exchange, maintenance and operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $22,882,000, of which 
$2,950,000 shall remain avail

[[Page 109 STAT. 528]]

able until expended: Provided, <<NOTE: Flags. 40 USC 166g. capitol 
grounds>> That hereafter expenses, based on full cost recovery, for 
flying American flags and providing certification services therefor 
shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request of the Architect of the 
Capitol, and amounts so received shall be deposited into the Treasury.

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,143,000, of which $25,000 shall remain available 
until expended.

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate Office Buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
 $41,757,000, of which $4,850,000 shall remain available until expended.

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $33,001,000, of which $5,261,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, Union Station complex, 
Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare 
Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request 
of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received shall be 
deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this appropriation, 
$31,518,000: Provided, That not to exceed $4,000,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 1996.

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$60,084,000: Provided, That no part of this appropriation may be used to 
pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except

[[Page 109 STAT. 529]]

the Digest of Public General Bills), to be issued by the Library of 
Congress unless such publication has obtained prior approval of either 
the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives or the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 2 USC 166 note.>> That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the compensation of the Director of the Congressional 
Research Service, Library of Congress, shall be at an annual rate which 
is equal to the annual rate of basic pay for positions at level IV of 
the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; 
and printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$83,770,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years.

    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1996''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,053,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. (a) Section 201 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1993 (40 U.S.C. 216c note) is amended by striking out 
``$6,000,000'' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof 
``$10,000,000''.
    (b) Section 307E(a)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1989 (40 U.S.C. 216c(a)(1)) is amended by striking out ``plans'' and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``plants''.

[[Page 109 STAT. 530]]

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress, not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog cards and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $211,664,000, of which not 
more than $7,869,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 1996 under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150): Provided, That the total 
amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than the $7,869,000: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,458,000 is to remain available until 
expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, and newspapers, and all 
other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic services for 
the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, 
when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special and unique 
materials for additions to the collections.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $30,818,000, of which not more than $16,840,000 shall be 
derived from collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal 
year 1996 under 17 U.S.C. 708(c), and not more than $2,990,000 shall be 
derived from collections during fiscal year 1996 under 17 U.S.C. 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: Provided, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $19,830,000: Provided further, That up to 
$100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of 
an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $2,250 may be expended on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress or his designee, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the provisions of the Act of 
March 3, 1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $44,951,000, 
of which $11,694,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 109 STAT. 531]]

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase and repair of furniture, 
furnishings, office and library equipment, $4,882,000, of which $943,000 
shall be available until expended only for the purchase and supply of 
furniture, shelving, furnishings, and related costs necessary for the 
renovation and restoration of the Thomas Jefferson and John Adams 
Library buildings.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 202. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount not to exceed $194,290, of 
which $58,100 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 203. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
              (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
              (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be 
        at work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked 
        by the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a) (10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 204. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead 
costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies under 
the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be used to employ 
more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
              (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
              (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                      (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or
                      (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 205. Not to exceed $5,000 of any funds appropriated to the 
Library of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for the Library of Congress incentive awards program.
    Sec. 206. Not to exceed $12,000 of funds appropriated to the Library 
of Congress may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress or his designee, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 207. Under the heading ``Library of Congress'' obligational 
authority shall be available, in an amount not to exceed $99,412,000

[[Page 109 STAT. 532]]

for reimbursable and revolving fund activities, and $6,812,000 for non-
expenditure transfer activities in support of parliamentary development 
during the current fiscal year.
    Sec. 208. Notwithstanding this or any other Act, obligational 
authority under the heading ``Library of Congress'' for activities in 
support of parliamentary development is prohibited, except for Russia, 
Ukraine, Albania, Slovakia, and Romania, for other than incidental 
purposes.
    Sec. 209. <<NOTE: Electronic information. 2 USC 180.>> (a) The 
purpose of this section is to reduce the cost of information support for 
the Congress by eliminating duplication among systems which provide 
electronic access by Congress to legislative information.

    (b) As used in this section, the term ``legislative information'' 
means information, prepared within the legislative branch, consisting of 
the text of publicly available bills, amendments, committee hearings, 
and committee reports, the text of the Congressional Record, data 
relating to bill status, data relating to legislative activity, and 
other similar public information that is directly related to the 
legislative process.
    (c) Pursuant to the plan approved under subsection (d) and 
consistent with the provisions of any other law, the Library of Congress 
or the entity designated by that plan shall develop and maintain, in 
coordination with other appropriate entities of the legislative branch, 
a single legislative information retrieval system to serve the entire 
Congress.
    (d) The Library shall develop a plan for creation of this system, 
taking into consideration the findings and recommendations of the study 
directed by House Report No. 103-517 to identify and eliminate 
redundancies in congressional information systems. This plan must be 
approved by the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the 
Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives. <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Library shall provide these 
committees with regular status reports on the development of the plan.

    (e) <<NOTE: Public information.>> In formulating its plan, the 
Library shall examine issues regarding efficient ways to make this 
information available to the public. This analysis shall be submitted to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives as well as the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate, and the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
Representatives for their consideration and possible action.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$12,428,000, of which $3,710,000 shall remain available until expended.

[[Page 109 STAT. 533]]

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $30,307,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $130,000: Provided 
further, That funds, not to exceed $2,000,000, from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional Serial Sets and other related Congressional/non-
Congressional publications for 1994 and 1995 to depository and other 
designated libraries.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 210. <<NOTE: Electronic information.>> The fiscal year 1997 
budget submission of the Public Printer to the Congress for the 
Government Printing Office shall include appropriations requests and 
recommendations to the Congress that--
            (1) are consistent with the strategic plan included in the 
        technological study performed by the Public Printer pursuant to 
        Senate Report 104-114;
            (2) assure substantial progress toward maximum use of 
        electronic information dissemination technologies by all 
        departments, agencies, and other entities of the Government with 
        respect to the Depository Library Program and information 
        dissemination generally; and
            (3) are formulated so as to require that any department, 
        agency, or other entity of the Government that does not make 
        such progress shall bear from its own resources the cost of its 
        information dissemination by other than electronic means.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs 
and purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles, not to exceed a fleet of twelve: 
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary 
to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for level

[[Page 109 STAT. 534]]

V of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5316): Provided further, That the 
revolving fund and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of 
Superintendent of Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together may 
not be available for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 
3,800 workyears by the end of fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That 
activities financed through the revolving fund may provide information 
in any format: Provided further, That the revolving fund shall not be 
used to administer any flexible or compressed work schedule which 
applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the grade or level of 
which is equal to or higher than GS-15: Provided further, That expenses 
for attendance at meetings shall not exceed $75,000.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not to exceed $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 
5315); hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign 
countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; benefits comparable to 
those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6) and 901(8) of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6) and 4081(8)); and under 
regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, 
rental of living quarters in foreign countries and travel benefits 
comparable with those which are now or hereafter may be granted single 
employees of the Agency for International Development, including single 
Foreign Service personnel assigned to AID projects, by the Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development--or his designee--under the 
authority of section 636(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2396(b)); $374,406,000: Provided, That not more than $400,000 of 
reimbursements received incident to the operation of the General 
Accounting Office Building shall be available for use in fiscal year 
1996: Provided further, That notwithstanding <<NOTE: 31 USC 9105 
note.>> 31 U.S.C. 9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to the Comptroller 
General pursuant to that section shall be deposited to the appropriation 
of the General Accounting Office then available and remain available 
until expended, and not more than $8,000,000 of such funds shall be 
available for use in fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the Joint Financial 
Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of JFMIP costs as determined by the JFMIP, including 
the salary of the Executive Director and secretarial support: Provided 
further, That this appropriation and appropriations for administrative 
expenses of any other department or agency which is a member of the 
National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental 
Audit Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of Forum 
costs as determined by the Forum, including necessary travel expenses of 
non-Federal participants. Payments hereunder to either the Forum or the 
JFMIP may be credited as reimbursements to

[[Page 109 STAT. 535]]

any appropriation from which costs involved are initially financed: 
Provided further, That to the extent that funds are otherwise available 
for obligation, agreements or contracts for the removal of asbestos, and 
renovation of the building and building systems (including the heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning system, electrical system and other 
major building systems) of the General Accounting Office Building may be 
made for periods not exceeding five years: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, 
including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the 
International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 211. (a) <<NOTE: Effective date. 31 USC 501 note.>> Effective 
June 30, 1996, the functions of the Comptroller General identified in 
subsection (b) are transferred to the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget, contingent upon the additional transfer to the 
Office of Management and Budget of such personnel, budget authority, 
records, and property of the General Accounting Office relating to such 
functions as the Comptroller General and the Director jointly determine 
to be necessary. The Director may delegate any such function, in whole 
or in part, to any other agency or agencies if the Director determines 
that such delegation would be cost-effective or otherwise in the public 
interest, and may transfer to such agency or agencies any personnel, 
budget authority, records, and property received by the Director 
pursuant to the preceding sentence that relate to the delegated 
functions. Personnel transferred pursuant to this provision shall not be 
separated or reduced in classification or compensation for one year 
after any such transfer, except for cause.

    (b) The following provisions of the United States Code contain the 
functions to be transferred pursuant to subsection (a): sections 5564 
and 5583 of title 5; sections 2312, 2575, 2733, 2734, 2771, 4712, and 
9712 of title 10; sections 1626 and 4195 of title 22; section 420 of 
title 24; sections 2414 and 2517 of title 28; sections 1304, 3702, 3726, 
and 3728 of title 31; sections 714 and 715 of title 32; section 554 of 
title 37; section 5122 of title 38; and section 256a of title 41.

    Sec. 212. (a) Section 732 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by adding a new subsection (h) as follows:
    ``(h) <<NOTE: Regulations. Reduction in force.>> Notwithstanding the 
provisions of subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, 
the Comptroller General shall prescribe regulations for the release of 
officers and employees of the General Accounting Office in a reduction 
in force which give due effect to tenure of employment, military 
preference, performance and/or contributions to the agency's goals and 
objectives, and length of service. The regulations shall, to the extent 
deemed feasible by the Comptroller General, be designed to minimize 
disruption to the Office and to assist in promoting the efficiency of 
the Office.''.

    Sec. 213. Section 753 of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as (c), 
        (d), and (e), respectively;

[[Page 109 STAT. 536]]

            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) a new subsection (b) 
        as follows:

    ``(b) The Board has no authority to issue a stay of any reduction in 
force action.''; and
            (3) in the second sentence of subsection (c), as 
        redesignated, by striking ``(c)'' and inserting ``(d)''.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Oversight and for the Senate issued by the 
Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 303. Whenever any office or position not specifically 
established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is appropriated for 
herein or whenever the rate of compensation or designation of any 
position appropriated for herein is different from that specifically 
established for such position by such Act, the rate of compensation and 
the designation of the position, or either, appropriated for or provided 
herein, shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions herein for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the 
statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

    Sec. 306. <<NOTE: 40 USC 175 note.>> (a) Upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and in 
accordance with conditions determined by the Committee on House 
Oversight, positions in connection with House parking activities and 
related funding shall be transferred from the appropriation ``Architect 
of the Capitol, Capitol buildings and grounds, House office buildings'' 
to the appropriation ``House of Representatives, salaries, officers and 
employees, Office of the Sergeant at Arms'': Provided, That the position 
of Superintendent of Garages shall be subject to authorization in annual 
appropriations Acts.

    (b) <<NOTE: Annuities.>> For purposes of section 8339(m) of title 5, 
United States Code, the days of unused sick leave to the credit of any 
such

[[Page 109 STAT. 537]]

employee as of the date such employee is transferred under subsection 
(a) shall be included in the total service of such employee in 
connection with the computation of any annuity under subsections (a) 
through (e) and (o) of such section.

    (c) In the case of days of annual leave to the credit of any such 
employee as of the date such employee is transferred under subsection 
(a) the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to make a lump sum 
payment to each such employee for that annual leave. No such payment 
shall be considered a payment or compensation within the meaning of any 
law relating to dual compensation.
    Sec. 307. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the relocation of the office of any Member of the House of 
Representatives within the House office buildings.
    Sec. 308. <<NOTE: Effective dates. 40 USC 212a-4.>> (a)(1) Effective 
October 1, 1995, the unexpended balances of appropriations specified in 
paragraph (2) are transferred to the appropriation for general expenses 
of the Capitol Police, to be used for design and installation of 
security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds.

    (2) The unexpended balances referred to in paragraph (1) are--
            (A) the unexpended balance of appropriations for security 
        installations, as referred to in the paragraph under the heading 
        ``capitol buildings'', under the general headings ``JOINT 
        ITEMS'', ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'', and ``Capitol Buildings 
        and Grounds'' in title I of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 1995 (108 Stat. 1434), including any 
        unexpended balance from a prior fiscal year and any unexpended 
        balance under such headings in this Act; and
            (B) the unexpended balance of the appropriation for an 
        improved security plan, as transferred to the Architect of the 
        Capitol by section 102 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
        Act, 1989 (102 Stat. 2165).

    (b) Effective October 1, 1995, the responsibility for design and 
installation of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds 
is transferred from the Architect of the Capitol to the Capitol Police 
Board. Such design and installation shall be carried out under the 
direction of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate, and without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes of 
the United States (41 U.S.C. 5). On and after October 1, 1995, any 
alteration to a structural, mechanical, or architectural feature of the 
Capitol buildings and grounds that is required for a security system 
under the preceding sentence may be carried out only with the approval 
of the Architect of the Capitol.

    (c)(1) Effective October 1, 1995, all positions specified in 
paragraph (2) and each individual holding any such position (on a 
permanent basis) immediately before that date, as identified by the 
Architect of the Capitol, shall be transferred to the Capitol Police.
    (2) The positions referred to in paragraph (1) are those positions 
which, immediately before October 1, 1995, are--
            (A) under the Architect of the Capitol;
            (B) within the Electronics Engineering Division of the 
        Office of the Architect of the Capitol; and
            (C) related to the design or installation of security 
        systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds.

[[Page 109 STAT. 538]]

    (3) All annual leave and sick leave standing to the credit of an 
individual immediately before such individual is transferred under 
paragraph (1) shall be credited to such individual, without adjustment, 
in the new position of the individual.
    Sec. 309. (a) Section 230(a) of the Congressional Accountability Act 
of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1371(a)) is amended by striking out ``Administrative 
Conference of the United States'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``Board''.
    (b) Section 230(d)(1) of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1371(d)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking out ``Administrative Conference of the 
        United States'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Board''; and
            (2) by striking out ``and shall submit the study and 
        recommendations to the Board''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 2 USC 1371 note.>> The amendments made by this section 
shall take effect only if the Administrative Conference of the United 
States ceases to exist prior to the completion and submission of the 
study to the Board as required by section 230 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1371).

    Sec. 310. Any amount appropriated in this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 1996. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for such 
fiscal year shall be deposited in the Treasury, to be used for deficit 
reduction.
    Sec. 311. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 <<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-
6.>> is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking 
``1995'' and inserting ``1996''.

    Sec. 312. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 313. <<NOTE: 2 USC 78 note.>> (a) The Sergeant at Arms of the 
House of Representatives shall have the same law enforcement authority, 
including the authority to carry firearms, as a member of the Capitol 
Police. The law enforcement authority under the preceding sentence shall 
be subject to the requirement that the Sergeant at Arms have the 
qualifications specified in subsection (b).

    (b) The qualifications referred to in subsection (a) are the 
following:
            (1) A minimum of five years of experience as a law 
        enforcement officer before beginning service as the Sergeant at 
        Arms.
            (2) Current certification in the use of firearms by the 
        appropriate Federal law enforcement entity or an equivalent non-
        Federal entity.
            (3) Any other firearms qualification required for members of 
        the Capitol Police.

    (c) The Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives 
shall have authority to prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
    Sec. 314. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 57b.>> Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, effective September 1, 1995, the Committee on 
House Oversight of the House of Representatives shall have authority--
            (1) <<NOTE: Nomenclature.>> to combine the House of 
        Representatives Clerk Hire Allowance, Official Expenses 
        Allowance, and Official Mail Allowance into a single allowance, 
        to be known as the ``Members' Representational Allowance''; and

[[Page 109 STAT. 539]]

            (2) to prescribe regulations relating to allocations, 
        expenditures, and other matters with respect to the Members' 
        Representational Allowance.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1996''.

    Approved November 19, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2492:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            Oct. 31, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 2, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 31 (1995):
            Nov. 19, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>