[104th Congress Public Law 283]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ283.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3363]]

Public Law 104-283
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To reauthorize the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 11, 1996 -  [H.R. 543]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United <<NOTE: National Marine Sanctuaries Preservation Act.>>  States 
of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1431 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Marine Sanctuaries 
Preservation Act''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENT OF NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARIES ACT.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of National Marine Sanctuaries 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1431-1445a).

SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARIES ACT.

    Section 313 (16 U.S.C. 1444) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 313. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this title--
            ``(1) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1997;
            ``(2) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; and
            ``(3) $18,000,000 for fiscal year 1999.''.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1445 note.>>  MANAGEMENT, RECOVERY, AND 
            PRESERVATION PLAN FOR U.S.S. MONITOR.

    The Secretary of Commerce shall, within 12 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, prepare and submit to the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a long-range, comprehensive 
plan for the management, stabilization, preservation, and recovery of 
artifacts and materials of the U.S.S. MONITOR. In preparing and 
implementing the plan, the Secretary shall to the extent feasible 
utilize the resources of other Federal and private entities with 
expertise and capabilities that are helpful.

SEC. 5. PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF CERTAIN ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETINGS.

    Section 315(e)(3) (16 U.S.C. 1445a(e)(3)) is amended by inserting 
before the period at the end the following: ``, except that in the case 
of a meeting of an Advisory Council established to provide assistance 
regarding any individual national marine sanctuary the notice is not 
required to be published in the Federal Register''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3364]]

SEC. 6. ENHANCING SUPPORT FOR NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARIES.

    (a) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1431 note, 1442 note, 1445b.>>  Incorporation of 
Existing Provision.--Section 316 (16 U.S.C. 1445 note) is redesignated 
as section 317, section 2204 of the National Marine Sanctuaries Program 
Amendments Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 5049) is moved so as to appear in the 
National Marine Sanctuaries Act following section 315, and that moved 
section is designated as section 316 of the National Marine Sanctuaries 
Act.

    (b) Amendment of Incorporated Section.--Section 316, as moved and 
designated by subsection (a) of this section, <<NOTE: 16 USC 1445b.>>  
is amended as follows:
            (1) Subsections (a), (g), and (h) are struck, and 
        subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) are redesignated as 
        subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e), respectively.
            (2) In subsection (a), as so redesignated, the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1) is struck and the following is inserted:

    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary may establish a program consisting 
of--''.
            (3) In subsection (a)(5), as so redesignated--
                    (A) ``establishment'' is struck and ``solicitation'' 
                is inserted; and
                    (B) ``fees'' is struck and ``monetary or in-kind 
                contributions'' is inserted.
            (4) In subsection (a)(6), as so redesignated--
                    (A) ``fees'' is struck and ``monetary or in-kind 
                contributions'' is inserted;
                    (B) ``paragraph (5)'' is struck and ``paragraphs (5) 
                and (6)'' is inserted;
                    (C) ``assessed'' is struck and ``collected'' is 
                inserted; and
                    (D) ``in an interest-bearing revolving fund'' is 
                struck.
            (5) In subsection (a)(7), as so redesignated--
                    (A) ``and use'' is inserted after ``expenditure'';
                    (B) ``fees'' is struck and ``monetary and in-kind 
                contributions'' is inserted; and
                    (C) ``and any interest in the fund established under 
                paragraph (6)'' is struck.
            (6) In subsection (a), as so redesignated, paragraphs (5), 
        (6), and (7) are redesignated in order as paragraphs (6), (7), 
        and (8), and the following new paragraph is inserted after 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(5) <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  the creation, marketing, and 
        selling of products to promote the national marine sanctuary 
        program, and entering into exclusive or nonexclusive agreements 
        authorizing entities to create, market or sell on the 
        Secretary's behalf;''.
            (7) The following new sentence is added at the end of 
        subsection (a), as so redesignated:

``Monetary and in-kind contributions raised through the sale, marketing, 
or use of symbols and products related to an individual national marine 
sanctuary shall be used to support that sanctuary.''.
            (8) In subsection (e), as so redesignated--
                    (A) paragraph (2) is struck;
                    (B) in paragraph (1), ``(1)'' is struck, and 
                subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) are redesignated as 
                paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4); and
                    (C) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, ``fee'' is 
                struck and ``monetary or in-kind contribution'' is 
                inserted.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3365]]

            (9) In each of subsections (b), (c), and (d), as so 
        redesignated, by striking ``subsection (b)'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)''.

SEC. 7. HAWAIIAN ISLANDS NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY.

    (a) Inclusion of Kahoolawe Island Waters.--Section 2305 of the 
Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary Act (16 U.S.C. 1433 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``(A)'' and inserting ``(a)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the area described in subsection 
                (b) is'' and inserting ``the area described in 
                subsection (b)(1) and any area included under subsection 
                (b)(2) are'';
            (2) by amending subsection (b)(2) to read as follows:

    ``(2)(A) Within 6 months after the date of receipt of a request in 
writing from the Kahoolawe Island Reserve Commission for inclusion 
within the Sanctuary of the area of the marine environment within 3 
nautical miles of the mean high tide line of Kahoolawe Island (in this 
section referred to as the `Kahoolawe Island waters'), the Secretary 
shall determine whether those waters may be suitable for inclusion in 
the Sanctuary.
    ``(B) If the Secretary determines under subparagraph (A) that the 
Kahoolawe Island waters may be suitable for inclusion within the 
Sanctuary--
            ``(i) <<NOTE: Notices.>>  the Secretary shall provide notice 
        of that determination to the Governor of Hawaii; and
            ``(ii) the Secretary shall prepare a supplemental 
        environmental impact statement, management plan, and 
        implementing regulations for that inclusion in accordance with 
        this Act, the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, and the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969.''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:

    ``(c) Effect of Objection by Governor.--(1)(A) If, within 45 days 
after the date of issuance of the comprehensive management plan and 
implementing regulations under section 2306, the Governor of Hawaii 
certifies to the Secretary that the management plan, the implementing 
regulations, or any term of the plan or regulations is unacceptable, the 
management plan, regulation, or term, respectively, shall not take 
effect in the area of the Sanctuary lying within the seaward boundary of 
the State of Hawaii.
    ``(B) If the Secretary considers that an action under subparagraph 
(A) will affect the Sanctuary in such a manner that the policy or 
purposes of this title cannot be fulfilled, the Secretary may terminate 
the designation under subsection (a). At least 30 days before that 
termination, the Secretary shall submit written notice of the 
termination to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate.
    ``(2)(A) If, within 45 days after the Secretary issues the documents 
required under subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii), the Governor of Hawaii 
certifies to the Secretary that the inclusion of the Kahoolawe Island 
waters in the Sanctuary or any term of that inclusion is unacceptable--
            ``(i) the inclusion or the term shall not take effect; and
            ``(ii) subsection (b)(2) shall not apply during the 3-year 
        period beginning on the date of that certification.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3366]]

    ``(B) If the Secretary considers that an action under subparagraph 
(A) regarding a term of the inclusion of the Kahoolawe Island waters 
will affect the inclusion or the administration of the Kahoolawe Island 
waters as part of the Sanctuary in such a manner that the policy or 
purposes of this title cannot be fulfilled, the Secretary may terminate 
that inclusion.''.
    (b) Limitation on User Fees.--The Hawaiian Islands National Marine 
Sanctuary Act (16 U.S.C. 1433 note) is further amended by redesignating 
section 2307 as section 2308, and by inserting after section 2306 the 
following new section:

``SEC. 2307. LIMITATION ON USER FEES.

    ``(a) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not institute any user fee 
under this Act or the National Marine Sanctuaries Act for any activity 
within the Hawaiian Islands National Marine Sanctuary or any use of the 
Sanctuary or its resources.
    ``(b) User Fee Defined.--In this section, the term `user fee' does 
not include--
            ``(1) any fee authorized by section 310 of the National 
        Marine Sanctuaries Act;
            ``(2) any gift or donation received under section 311 of 
        that Act; and
            ``(3) any monetary or in-kind contributions under section 
        316 of that Act.''.

SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1433 note.>>  FLOWER GARDEN BANKS BOUNDARY 
            MODIFICATION.

    (a) Modification.--Notwithstanding section 304 of the National 
Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1434), the boundaries of the Flower 
Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary, as designated by Public Law 102-
251, are amended to include the area described in subsection (d), 
popularly known as Stetson Bank. This area shall be part of the Flower 
Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary and shall be managed and 
regulated as though it had been designated by the Secretary of Commerce 
under the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.
    (b) Depiction of Sanctuary Boundaries.--The Secretary of Commerce 
shall--
            (1) prepare a chart depicting the boundaries of the Flower 
        Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary, as modified by this 
        section; and
            (2) submit copies of this chart to the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.

    (c) Application of Regulations.--Regulations issued by the Secretary 
of Commerce to implement the designation of the Flower Garden Banks 
National Marine Sanctuary shall apply to the area described in 
subsection (d), unless modified by the Secretary. <<NOTE: Effective 
date.>>  This subsection shall take effect 45 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

    (d) Area Described.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        area referred to in subsections (a), (b), and (c) is the area 
        that is--
                    (A) generally depicted on the Department of the 
                Interior, Minerals Management Service map titled 
                ``Western Gulf of Mexico, Lease Sale 143, September 
                1993, Biologically Sensitive Areas, Map 3 of 3, Final'';

[[Page 110 STAT. 3367]]

                    (B) labeled ``Stetson'' on the High Island Area 
                South Addition diagram on that map; and
                    (C) within the 52 meter isobath.
            (2) Minor boundary adjustments.--The Secretary of Commerce 
        may make minor adjustments to the boundaries of the area 
        described in paragraph (1) as necessary to protect living coral 
        resources or to simplify administration of the Flower Garden 
        Banks National Marine Sanctuary and to establish precisely the 
        geographic boundaries of Stetson Bank. The adjustments shall not 
        significantly enlarge or otherwise alter the size of the area 
        described in paragraph (1), and shall not result in the 
        restriction of oil and gas activities otherwise permitted 
        outside of the ``no activity'' zone designated for Stetson Bank 
        as that zone is depicted on the Minerals Management Service map 
        entitled ``Final Notice of Sale 161, Western Gulf Mexico, 
        Biological Stipulation Map Package''.

    (e) Publication of Notice.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  In general.--
        The Secretary of Commerce shall, as soon as practicable after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, publish in the Federal 
        Register a notice describing--
                    (A) the boundaries of the Flower Garden Banks 
                National Marine Sanctuary, as modified by this section, 
                and
                    (B) any modification of regulations applicable to 
                that Sanctuary that are necessary to implement that 
                modification of the boundaries of the Sanctuary.
            (2) Treatment as notice required under national marine 
        sanctuaries act.--A notice published under paragraph (1) shall 
        be considered to be the notice required to be published under 
        section 304(b)(1) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1434(b)(1)).

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--Amounts may be appropriated to 
carry out this section under the authority provided in section 313 of 
the National Marine Sanctuaries Act, as amended by this Act.

SEC. 9. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Section 301(b)(2) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 
U.S.C. 1431(b)(2)) is amended by striking the period at the end and 
inserting a semicolon.
    (b) Section 302 of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 
1432) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6) by striking ``, and'' at the end of 
        subparagraph (C) and inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) in paragraph (7) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon 
        at the end.

    (c) Section 307(e)(1)(A) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 
U.S.C. 1437(e)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting ``of 1980'' before the 
period at the end.
    (d) Section 2109 of the National Marine Sanctuaries Program 
Amendments Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 5045) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1442.>>  is 
amended by striking the open quotation marks before ``Section 311''.

    (e) Section 2110(d) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Program 
Amendments Act of 1992 (106 Stat. 5046) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1443.>>  is 
deemed to have amended section 312(b)(1) of the Marine Protection, 
Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1443(b)(1)) by 
inserting ``or authorize'' after ``undertake''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3368]]

    (f) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1431 note, 1445a.>>  The material added to the 
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 by section 2112 
of the National Marine Sanctuaries Program Amendments Act of 1992 (106 
Stat. 5046)--
            (1) is deemed to have been added by that section at the end 
        of title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries 
        Act of 1972; and
            (2) shall not be considered to have been added by that 
        section to the end of the Marine Protection, Research, and 
        Sanctuaries Act of 1972.

    (g) Section 2202(e) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Program 
Amendments Act of 1992 (16 U.S.C. 1433 note) is amended by striking 
``section 304(e)'' and inserting ``304(d)''.
    (h) Section 304(b)(3) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 
U.S.C. 1434(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C);
            (2) by moving the text of subparagraph (A) so as to begin at 
        the end of the line on which appears the heading for paragraph 
        (3);
            (3) by moving clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A) 2 ems 
        to the left;
            (4) by striking ``(A) In'' and inserting ``In'';
            (5) by striking ``(i)'' and inserting ``(A)''; and
            (6) by striking ``(ii)'' and inserting ``(B)''.

SEC. 10. <<NOTE: Washington.>>  NORTHWEST STRAITS.

    No <<NOTE: 16 USC 1433 note.>>  designation of an area in the 
Northwest Straits in the State of Washington as a national marine 
sanctuary under the National Marine Sanctuaries Act shall take effect 
unless that designation is specifically authorized by a law enacted 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3369]]

SEC. 11. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1433 note.>>  DESIGNATION OF GERRY E. STUDDS 
            STELLWAGEN BANK NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY.

    The Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary shall be known and 
designated as the ``Gerry E. Studds Stellwagen Bank National Marine 
Sanctuary''. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, 
or other record of the United States to that national marine sanctuary 
shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Gerry E. Studds Stellwagen 
Bank National Marine 
Sanctuary''.

    Approved October 11, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 543:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Sept. 28, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>