[104th Congress Public Law 213]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ213.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3016]]

Public Law 104-213
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Carbon Hill 
    National Fish Hatchery to the State of Alabama. <<NOTE: Oct. 1, 
                         1996 -  [H.R. 2982]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Carbon Hill 
National Fish Hatchery Conveyance Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Carbon Hill National Fish Hatchery 
Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF CARBON HILL NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY TO THE STATE OF 
            ALABAMA.

    (a) Conveyance Requirement.--Within 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the 
State of Alabama without reimbursement, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the property described in subsection (b), 
for use by the Game and Fish Division of the Alabama Department of 
Conservation and Natural Resources, as part of the State of Alabama fish 
culture program.
    (b) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is the property known as the Carbon Hill National Fish Hatchery, located 
on County Road 63 at Carbon Hill, Alabama, in Walker County, Alabama, 
consisting of 67 acres (more or less), and all improvements and related 
personal property under the control of the Secretary that is located on 
that property, including buildings, structures, equipment, and all 
easements, leases, and water rights relating to that property.
    (c) Use and Reversionary Interest.--The property conveyed to the 
State of Alabama pursuant to this section shall be used by the State for 
purposes of fishery resources management and fisheries-related 
activities, and if it is used for any other purpose detrimental to those 
purposes and activities, all right, title, and interest in and to all 
property conveyed pursuant to this section shall revert to the United 
States. The State of Alabama shall ensure that the property reverting to 
the United States is in substantially the same or better condition as at 
the time of transfer.

    Approved October 1, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2982:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-568 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            May 14, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>