[104th Congress Public Law 197]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ197.104]


[[Page 2393]]

               LEGISLATIVE BRANCH APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 1997

[[Page 110 STAT. 2394]]

Public Law 104-197
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
                                 ending 
     September 30, 1997, and for other purposes. <<NOTE:  Sept. 16, 
                         1996 -  [H.R. 3754]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That <<NOTE: Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1997.>> the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and 
for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS <<NOTE: Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1997. 2 USC 60a note.>> 

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the Senate, 
$10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip of the 
Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; 
in all, $56,000.

     representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized by 
law, including agency contributions, $74,615,000, which shall be paid 
from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, as 
follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,513,000.

                   office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $325,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,195,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2395]]

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,156,000.

                          conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $996,000 for each such committee; in all, $1,992,000.

  offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority and 
the Conference of the Minority, $384,000.

                            policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $965,000 for each such committee, in all, $1,930,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $234,000.

                         office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $12,714,000.

              office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $34,037,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,135,000.

                agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $17,000,000.

             Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $3,447,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$936,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2396]]

           Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, 
 Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the 
                   Majority and Minority of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the 
Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                    Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $69,561,000.

 expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                 control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $305,000.

                         secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,511,000.

              sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of 
the Senate, $65,931,000.

                           miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $6,791,000.

         senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$208,000,000.

                       stationery (revolving fund)

    For stationery for the President of the Senate, $4,500, for officers 
of the Senate and the Conference of the Majority and Conference of the 
Minority of the Senate, $8,500; in all, $13,000.

                           official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 1998.

                        administrative provisions

    Section 1. Section 195(a) of chapter IX of title I of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1985 (Public Law 99-88; 2 U.S.C. 61g-
7(a)) is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting

[[Page 110 STAT. 2397]]

``or with respect to the administration of the affairs of the 
committee.''.
    Sec. 2. Section 105(d)(1) of chapter VI of title I of the Second 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1978 (Public Law 95-355; 2 U.S.C. 
43d(d)(1)) is amended by striking ``and telephone services'' and 
inserting ``, telephone services, and stationery''.
    Sec. 3. Section 3(f)(1) under the heading ``administrative 
provisions'' in the appropriation for the Senate in the Legislative 
Branch Appropriation Act, 1975 (2 U.S.C. 59(e)(1)) is amended in the 
second sentence by striking ``one year'' and inserting ``3 years''.
    Sec. 4. (a) Section 5 under the heading ``administrative 
provisions'' in the appropriation for the Senate in the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1996 (2 U.S.C. 58a note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``by the Sergeant at Arms 
        and Doorkeeper of the Senate''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) As used in subsection (a), the term `user' means a Senator, an 
Officer of the Senate, and any office, committee, or other entity the 
funds of which are disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. 2 USC 58a note.>> The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 1996, 
and shall apply to all payments made on or after such date for local and 
long distance telecommunications service.

    Sec. 5. <<NOTE: Public schools. Computers. 2 USC 117b note.>> (a) 
The Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate may directly, or 
through the General Services Administration, transfer title to excess or 
surplus educationally useful equipment to a public school. Any such 
transfer shall be completed at the lowest possible cost to the public 
school and the Senate.

    (b) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> The Committee on Rules and Administration 
of the Senate shall prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of 
this section.

    (c) Receipts from reimbursements for the costs of transfer of excess 
or surplus educationally useful equipment under this section, shall be 
deposited in the United States Treasury for credit to the account for 
the ``Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate'' within the 
contingent fund of the Senate.
    (d) For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``public school'' means a public elementary or 
        secondary school as such terms are defined in section 14101 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        8801).
            (2) The term ``educationally useful equipment'' means 
        computers and related peripheral tools, including printers, 
        modems, routers, servers, computer keyboards, scanners, and 
        other telecommunications and research equipment, that are 
        appropriate for use in public school education.

    (e) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall take effect 
beginning with fiscal year 1997 and shall be effective each fiscal year 
thereafter.

    Sec. 6. <<NOTE: 40 USC 214e.>> (a) Notwithstanding section 1345 of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Senate may reimburse 
any individual employed by the Senate day care center for the cost of 
training classes and conferences in connection with the provision of 
child care services and for travel, transportation, and subsistence 
expenses incurred in connection with the training classes and 
conferences.

    (b) <<NOTE: Certification.>> The Senate day care center shall 
certify and provide appropriate documentation to the Secretary of the 
Senate with respect

[[Page 110 STAT. 2398]]

to any reimbursement under this section. Reimbursements under this 
section shall be made from the appropriations account ``MISCELLANEOUS 
ITEMS'' within the contingent fund of the Senate on vouchers approved by 
the Secretary of the Senate.

    (c) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> Reimbursements under this section shall 
be subject to the regulations and limitations prescribed by the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate for travel and 
related expenses for which payment is authorized to be made from the 
contingent fund of the Senate.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall be effective on and 
after October 1, 1996.

    Sec. 7. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
received during fiscal year 1996 by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate in settlement of a contract claim or dispute, but not to 
exceed $1,450,000, shall be deposited into the appropriation account for 
fiscal year 1997 for the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate 
within the contingent fund of the Senate and shall be available in a 
like manner and for the same purposes as are the other funds in that 
account.
    Sec. 8. <<NOTE: 2 USC 123e.>> (a) The Secretary of the Senate, with 
the oversight and approval of the Committee on Rules and Administration 
of the Senate, shall oversee the development and implementation of a 
comprehensive Senate legislative information system.

    (b) In carrying out this section, the Secretary of the Senate shall 
consult and work with officers and employees of the House of 
Representatives. Legislative branch agencies and departments and 
agencies of the executive branch shall provide cooperation, 
consultation, and assistance as requested by the Secretary of the Senate 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Any funds that were appropriated under the heading ``Secretary 
of the Senate'' for expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the 
Senate by the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1995, to remain 
available until September 30, 1998, and that the Secretary determines 
are not needed for development of a financial management system for the 
Senate may, with the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, be used to carry out the provisions of this section, and such 
funds shall be available through September 30, 2000.
    (d) The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may 
prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the 
provisions of this section.
    (e) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall be effective for 
fiscal years beginning on or after October 1, 1996.

    Sec. <<NOTE: 2 USC 60p.>>  9. Payment for Unaccrued Leave.--

    (a) In General.--The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to 
accept from an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of 
Senate a payment representing pay for any period of unaccrued annual 
leave used by that individual, as certified by the head of the employing 
office of the individual making the payment.
    (b) Withholding.--The Financial Clerk of the Senate is authorized to 
withhold the amount referred to in subsection (a) from any amount which 
is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and which is due to or on 
behalf of the individual described in subsection (a).

[[Page 110 STAT. 2399]]

    (c) Deposit.--Any payment accepted under this section shall be 
deposited in the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
    (d) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``head of the 
employing office'' means any person with the final authority to appoint, 
hire, discharge, and set the terms, conditions, or privileges of the 
employment of an individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.
    (e) Applicability.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 1996 and 
each fiscal year thereafter.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$683,831,000, as follows:

                        house leadership offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $11,592,000, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $1,535,000, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$1,526,000, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $1,534,000, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $957,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, $949,000, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority Whip; Speaker's 
Office for Legislative Floor Activities, $376,000; Republican Steering 
Committee, $664,000; Republican Conference, $1,130,000; Democratic 
Steering and Policy Committee, $1,191,000; Democratic Caucus, $603,000; 
and nine minority employees, $1,127,000.

                  members' representational allowances

    including members' clerk hire, official expenses of members, and 
                              official mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $363,313,000.

                           committee employees

                 standing committees, special and select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $80,222,000.

                       committee on appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$17,580,000, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2400]]

                    salaries, officers and employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $86,259,000, including: for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Clerk, including not more than $3,500, of which not 
more than $2,500 is for the Family Room, for official representation and 
reception expenses, $15,074,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office 
of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages, and including not more than $750 for official representation 
and reception expenses, $3,638,000; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer, $55,209,000, including 
salaries, expenses and temporary personal services of House Information 
Resources, $22,577,000, of which $16,577,000 is provided herein: 
Provided, That House Information Resources is authorized to receive 
reimbursement from Members of the House of Representatives and other 
governmental entities for services provided and such reimbursement shall 
be deposited in the Treasury for credit to this account; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $3,954,000; Office 
of the Chaplain, $126,000; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian and $2,000 for 
preparing the Digest of Rules, $1,036,000; for salaries and expenses of 
the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the House, $1,767,000; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the 
House, $4,687,000; and other authorized employees, $768,000.

                         allowances and expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $124,865,000, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $2,374,000; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $1,000,000; 
reemployed annuitants reimbursement, $71,000; Government contributions 
for health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $120,779,000; and miscellaneous items including purchase, 
exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor vehicles, 
interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased 
employees of the House, $641,000.

                            child care center

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care 
Center, such amounts as are deposited in the account established by 
section 312(d)(1) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 (40 
U.S.C. 184g(d)(1)), subject to the level specified in the budget of the 
Center, as submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Section 107A of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1996 (109 Stat. 522) <<NOTE: 40 USC 174k note.>>  is amended--
            (1) by striking out ``For fiscal year 1996, subject'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``(a) Subject'';
            (2) by striking out ``of the total amount'' and all that 
        follows through ``cost of inventory'' and inserting in lieu 
        thereof

[[Page 110 STAT. 2401]]

        the following: ``the amounts deposited in the account specified 
        in subsection (b) from vending operations of the House of 
        Representatives Restaurant System shall be available to pay the 
        cost of goods sold''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) The account referred to in subsection (a) is the special 
deposit account established for the House of Representatives Restaurant 
by section 208 of the First Supplemental Civil Functions Appropriation 
Act, 1941 (40 U.S.C. 174k note).''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability. 40 USC 174k note.>> The amendments made 
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal years beginning 
after September 30, 1996.

    Sec .102. (a) Section 3210(a)(6)(A) of title 39, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by inserting ``(or, in the case of a 
        Member of the House, fewer than 90 days)'' after ``60 days''; 
        and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking out ``60 days'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``90 days''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date. Applicability. 39 USC 3210 note.>> The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 1996, 
and shall apply with respect to any mailing postmarked on or after that 
date.

                               JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

             Joint Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 1997

    For construction of platform and seating stands and for salaries and 
expenses of conducting the inaugural ceremonies of the President and 
Vice President of the United States, January 20, 1997, in accordance 
with such program as may be adopted by the joint committee authorized by 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 47, One Hundred Fourth Congress, agreed to 
March 20, 1996, and Senate Concurrent Resolution 48, One Hundred Fourth 
Congress, agreed to March 20, 1996, $950,000 to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate and to remain available until September 30, 
1997. Such funds shall be available for payment, on a direct or 
reimbursable basis, whether incurred on, before, or after, October 1, 
1996: Provided, That the compensation of any employee of the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate who has been designated to 
perform service for the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural 
Ceremonies shall continue to be paid by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration, but the account from which such staff member is paid may 
be reimbursed for the services of the staff member (including agency 
contributions when appropriate) out of funds made available under this 
heading.

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$2,750,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                       Joint Committee on Printing

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Printing, 
$777,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2402]]

                       Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$5,470,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.

    For other joint items, as follows:

                    Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to two medical 
officers while on duty in the Attending Physician's office; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each to 
not to exceed nine assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistance; and (4) $867,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,225,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $69,356,000, of which $33,437,000 is provided to the Sergeant 
at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House, and $35,919,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be disbursed by the 
Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the amounts appropriated 
under this heading, such amounts as may be necessary may be transferred 
between the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives and the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services,  the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, telephone 
service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and liaison personnel 
for the Federal Law Enforcement

[[Page 110 STAT. 2403]]

Training Center, and $85 per month for extra services performed for the 
Capitol Police Board by an employee of the Sergeant at Arms of the 
Senate or the House of Representatives designated by the Chairman of the 
Board, $2,782,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
of the House of Representatives: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the cost of basic training for the Capitol 
Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 
1997 shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury from funds available 
to the Department of the Treasury.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 103. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1997 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to 
        the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.

            Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $1,991,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ more 
than forty individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide Board 
is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than one hundred twenty days each, 
and not more than ten additional individuals for not more than six 
months each, for the Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the One Hundred Fourth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as authorized 
by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1385), $2,609,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2404]]

                       CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $24,532,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 104. <<NOTE: 2 USC 605.>> (a) Any sale or lease of property, 
supplies, or services to the Congressional Budget Office shall be deemed 
to be a sale or lease to the Congress subject to section 903 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1983 (2 U.S.C. 111b).

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1996.

    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Personal property. 2 USC 606.>> (a) The Director 
of the Congressional Budget Office shall have the authority, within the 
limits of available appropriations, to dispose of surplus or obsolete 
personal property by inter-agency transfer, donation, or discarding.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1996.

    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Compensation. 2 USC 607.>> (a) The Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office shall have the authority to make lump-sum 
payments to separated employees of the Congressional Budget Office for 
unused annual leave.

    (b) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1996.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                 Office of the Architect of the Capitol

                                salaries

    For the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant Architect of the 
Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay provided by law, 
$8,454,000.

                                 travel

    Appropriations <<NOTE: 40 USC 166a.>> under the control of the 
Architect of the Capitol shall be available for expenses of travel on 
official business not to exceed in the aggregate under all funds the sum 
of $20,000.

                           Contingent Expenses

    To enable the Architect of the Capitol to make surveys and studies, 
and to meet unforeseen expenses in connection with activities under his 
care, $100,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2405]]

                      Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                            capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol and electrical substations of the Senate and House office 
buildings under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, 
including furnishings and office equipment; including not more than 
$1,000 for official reception and representation expenses, to be 
expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; purchase or 
exchange, maintenance and operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $23,255,000, of which 
$2,950,000 shall remain available until expended.

                             capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,020,000, of which $25,000 shall remain available 
until expended.

                         senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for maintenance, care and operation of 
Senate Office Buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be expended 
under the control and supervision of the Architect of the Capitol, 
$39,640,000, of which $3,200,000 shall remain available until expended.

                         house office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $32,556,000, of which $4,825,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                           capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, Union Station complex, 
Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger Shakespeare 
Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed upon request 
of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received shall be 
deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this appropriation, 
$30,749,000: Provided, That not more than $4,000,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 1997.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2406]]

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to revise 
and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of America, 
$62,641,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to pay 
any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or preparation 
of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General Bills), to be 
issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication has obtained 
prior approval of either the Committee on House Oversight of the House 
of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate: Provided further, That, <<NOTE: 2 USC 166 
note.>> notwithstanding any other provision of law, the compensation of 
the Director of the Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, 
shall be at an annual rate which is equal to the annual rate of basic 
pay for positions at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of title 5, United States Code.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional Record, 
as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; 
and printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$81,669,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations incurred 
under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years.

    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 1997''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $2,902,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2407]]

                           LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; preparation and 
distribution of catalog cards and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $216,007,000, of which not 
more than $7,869,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 1997, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150): Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts: Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than the $7,869,000: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,458,000 is to remain available until 
expended for acquisition of books, periodicals, and newspapers, and all 
other materials including subscriptions for bibliographic services for 
the Library, including $40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, 
when specifically approved by the Librarian, of special and unique 
materials for additions to the collections: Provided further, That of 
the total amount appropriated, $928,800 shall be for the operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library.

                            Copyright Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, including 
publication of the decisions of the United States courts involving 
copyrights, $33,402,000, of which not more than $17,340,000 shall be 
derived from collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal 
year 1997 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), and not more than $4,929,000 shall be 
derived from collections during fiscal year 1997 under 17 U.S.C. 
111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005: Provided, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $22,269,000: Provided further, That not more 
than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright 
Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals 
of developing countries in intellectual property laws and policies: 
Provided further, That not more than $2,250 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2408]]

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                          salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $44,964,000, of which 
$11,694,000 shall remain available until expended.

                        Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase and repair of furniture, 
furnishings, office and library equipment, $4,882,000.

                        Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $194,290, of 
which $58,100 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian, for attendance at meetings 
concerned with the function or activity for which the appropriation is 
made.
    Sec. 202. (a) No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by the Library of Congress to administer any flexible or compressed 
work schedule which--
            (1) applies to any manager or supervisor in a position the 
        grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-15; and
            (2) grants such manager or supervisor the right to not be at 
        work for all or a portion of a workday because of time worked by 
        the manager or supervisor on another workday.

    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``manager or supervisor'' 
means any management official or supervisor, as such terms are defined 
in section 7103(a) (10) and (11) of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 203. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead 
costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies under 
the authority of 31 U.S.C. 1535 and 1536 shall not be used to employ 
more than 65 employees and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations 
        Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work performed 
                for such agency; or
                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).

    Sec. 204. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 205. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with

[[Page 110 STAT. 2409]]

official representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field 
Offices.

    Sec. 206. (a) For fiscal year 1997, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $108,275,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the legislative 
branch.
    Sec. 207. (a)(1) Subject to subsection (b), for fiscal year 1997, 
the obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the activities 
described in paragraph (2) may not exceed $2,000,000.
    (2) The activities referred to in paragraph (1) are non-expenditure 
transfer activities in support of parliamentary development that are 
funded from sources other than appropriations to the Library in 
appropriations Acts for the legislative branch.
    (b) The obligational authority under subsection (a)--
            (1) <<NOTE: Foreign countries.>> shall be available only 
        with respect to Russia, Ukraine, Albania, Slovakia, and Romania; 
        and
            (2) <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> shall expire on December 31, 
        1996.

    Sec. 208. <<NOTE: Effective date. 2 USC 142l.>> From and after 
October 1, 1996, the Disbursing Officer of the Library of Congress is 
authorized to disburse funds appropriated for the Office of Compliance, 
and the Library of Congress shall provide financial management support 
to the Office of Compliance as may be required and mutually agreed to by 
the Librarian of Congress and the Executive Director of the Office of 
Compliance. The Library of Congress is further authorized to compute and 
disburse the basic pay of all personnel of the Office of Compliance 
pursuant to the provisions of section 5504 of 
title 5.

    All <<NOTE: Certification.>> vouchers certified for payment by duly 
authorized certifying officers of the Library of Congress shall be 
supported with a certification by an officer or employee of the Office 
of Compliance duly authorized in writing by the Executive Director of 
the Office of Compliance to certify payments from appropriations of the 
Office of Compliance. The Office of Compliance certifying officers shall 
(1) be held responsible for the existence and correctness of the facts 
recited in the certificate or otherwise stated on the voucher or its 
supporting paper and the legality of the proposed payment under the 
appropriation or fund involved, (2) be held responsible and accountable 
for the correctness of the computations of certifications made, and (3) 
be held accountable for and required to make good to the United States 
the amount of any illegal, improper, or incorrect payment resulting from 
any false, inaccurate, or misleading certificate made by them, as well 
as for any payment prohibited by law which did not represent a legal 
obligation under the appropriation or fund involved: Provided, That the 
Comptroller General of the United States may, at his discretion, relieve 
such certifying officer or employee of liability for any payment 
otherwise proper whenever he finds (1) that the certification was based 
on official records and that such certifying officer or employee did not 
know, and by reasonable diligence and inquiry could not have ascertained 
the actual facts, or (2) that the obligation was incurred in good faith, 
that the payment was not contrary to any statutory provision 
specifically prohibiting payments of the character 
involved, and the United States has received value for such payment: 
Provided further, That the Comptroller General shall relieve

[[Page 110 STAT. 2410]]

such certifying officer or employee of liability for an overpayment for 
transportation services made to any common carrier covered by section 
3726 of title 31, whenever he finds that the overpayment occurred solely 
because the administrative examination made prior to payment of the 
transportation bill did not include a verification of transportation 
rates, freight classifications, or land grant deductions.

    The Disbursing Officer of the Library of Congress shall not be held 
accountable or responsible for any illegal, improper, or incorrect 
payment resulting from any false, inaccurate, or misleading certificate, 
the responsibility for which is imposed upon a certifying officer or 
employee of the Office of Compliance.
    Sec. 209. Section 8 of the American Folklife Preservation Act (20 
U.S.C. 2107) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Center to carry out 
this Act such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1997 
and 1998.''.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                      Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$9,753,000, of which $1,310,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                  Office of Superintendent of Documents

                          salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $29,077,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $150,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000, from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 1995 and 
1996 to depository and other designated libraries.

                Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolv

[[Page 110 STAT. 2411]]

ing fund: Provided, That not more than $2,500 may be expended on the 
certification of the Public Printer in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of not more 
than twelve passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, That 
expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory councils 
to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall be available for temporary or intermittent services 
under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for 
individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund and the funds 
provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of Documents'' 
and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available for the 
full-time equivalent employment of more than 3,600 workyears by the end 
of fiscal year 1997: Provided further, That activities financed through 
the revolving fund may provide information in any format: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall not be used to administer any 
flexible or compressed work schedule which applies to any manager or 
supervisor in a position the grade or level of which is equal to or 
higher than GS-15: Provided further, That expenses for attendance at 
meetings shall not exceed $75,000.

                        GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                          Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3324; 
benefits comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), 901(6) and 
901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6) 
and 4081(8)); <<NOTE: Regulations.>> and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries; $332,520,000: Provided, That not more than 
$100,000 of reimbursements received incident to the operation of the 
General Accounting Office Building shall be available for use in fiscal 
year 1997: Provided further, That <<NOTE: 31 USC 9105 
note.>> notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 9105 hereafter amounts reimbursed to 
the Comptroller General pursuant to that section shall be deposited to 
the appropriation of the General Accounting Office then available and 
remain available until expended, and not more than $5,805,000 of such 
funds shall be available for use in fiscal year 1997: Provided further, 
That this appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses 
of any other department or agency which is a member of the Joint 
Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of JFMIP costs as determined by the JFMIP, 
including the salary of the Executive Director and secretarial support: 
Provided further, That this appro

[[Page 110 STAT. 2412]]

priation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any other 
department or agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental 
Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be 
available to finance an appropriate share of Forum costs as determined 
by the Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants. Payments hereunder to either the Forum or the JFMIP may be 
credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs 
involved are initially financed: Provided further, That to the extent 
that funds are otherwise available for obligation, agreements or 
contracts for the removal of asbestos, and renovation of the building 
and building systems (including the heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning system, electrical system and other major building systems) 
of the General Accounting Office Building may be made for periods not 
exceeding five years: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the American Consortium on International 
Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including 
any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International 
Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Oversight and for the Senate issued by the 
Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond fiscal year 1997 unless expressly so 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in 
this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That 
the provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House of 
Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 304. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds made 
available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance to, or 
entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available 
in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent 
practicable,

[[Page 110 STAT. 2413]]

shall provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.

    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.

    Sec. 306. <<NOTE: 40 USC 166h.>> During fiscal year 1997 and fiscal 
years thereafter, amounts appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol 
(including amounts relating to the Botanic Garden) may be transferred 
among accounts available to the Architect of the Capitol upon the 
approval of--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation for Capitol buildings and grounds under the 
        heading ``house office buildings'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation for Capitol 
        buildings and grounds under the heading ``senate office 
        buildings''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred 
        from any other appropriation.

    Sec. <<NOTE: 40 USC 175 note.>>  307. (a) Upon approval of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and in 
accordance with conditions determined by the Committee on House 
Oversight, positions in connection with House public address sound 
system activities and related funding shall be transferred from the 
appropriation for the Architect of the Capitol for Capitol buildings and 
grounds under the heading ``capitol buildings'' to the appropriation for 
salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives for the Office of 
the Clerk under the heading ``salaries, officers and em-
ployees''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Annuities.>>  For purposes of section 8339(m) of title 
5, United States Code, the days of unused sick leave to the credit of 
any such employee as of the date such employee is transferred under 
subsection (a) shall be included in the total service of such employee 
in connection with the computation of any annuity under subsections (a) 
through (e) and (o) of such section.

    (c) In the case of days of annual leave to the credit of any such 
employee as of the date such employee is transferred under subsection 
(a), the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to make a lump sum 
payment to each such employee for that annual leave. No such payment 
shall be considered a payment or compensation within the meaning of any 
law relating to dual compensation.

    Sec. 308. <<NOTE: Effective dates. Government organization. 40 USC 
212a-4a.>> (a) Effective October 1, 1996, the responsibility for 
maintenance of security systems for the Capitol buildings and grounds is 
transferred from the Architect of the Capitol to the Capitol Police 
Board. Such maintenance shall be carried out under the direction of the 
Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate. On and after 
October 1, 1996, any alteration to a structural, mechanical, or 
architectural feature of the Capitol

[[Page 110 STAT. 2414]]

buildings and grounds that is required for security system maintenance 
under the preceding sentence may be carried out only with the approval 
of the Architect of the Capitol.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Government organization.>> Effective October 1, 1996, 
all positions specified in paragraph (2) and each individual holding any 
such position (on a permanent basis) immediately before that date, as 
identified by the Architect of the Capitol, shall be transferred to the 
Capitol Police.

    (2) The positions referred to in paragraph (1) are those positions 
which, immediately before October 1, 1996, are--
            (A) under the Architect of the Capitol;
            (B) within the Electronics Engineering Division of the 
        Office of the Architect of the Capitol; and
            (C) related to the maintenance of security systems for the 
        Capitol buildings and grounds.

    (3) All annual leave and sick leave standing to the credit of an 
individual immediately before such individual is transferred under 
paragraph (1) shall be credited to such individual, without adjustment, 
in the new position of the individual.
    Sec. 309. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 310. Any amount appropriated in this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 1997. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for such 
fiscal year shall be deposited in the Treasury, to be used for deficit 
reduction.

    Sec. 311. <<NOTE: Mail. Notice. 2 USC 59h.>> (a) Each mass mailing 
sent by a Member of the House of Representatives shall bear in a 
prominent place on its face, or on the envelope or outside cover or 
wrapper in which the mail matter is sent, the following notice: ``this 
mailing was prepared, published, and mailed at taxpayer expense.'', or a 
notice to the same effect in words which may be prescribed under 
subsection (c). The notice shall be printed in a type size not smaller 
than 7-point.

    (b)(1) <<NOTE: Reports.>> There shall be published in the itemized 
report of disbursements of the House of Representatives as required by 
law, a summary tabulation setting forth, for the office of each Member 
of the House of Representatives, the total number of pieces of mass mail 
mailed during the period involved and the total cost of those mass 
mailings.

    (2) Each such tabulation shall also include--
            (A) the total cost (as referred to in paragraph (1)) divided 
        by the number (as determined by the Postmaster General) of 
        addresses (other than business possible delivery stops) in the 
        Congressional district from which the Member was elected (as 
        such addresses are described in section 3210(d)(7)(B) of title 
        39, United States Code); and
            (B) the total number of pieces of mass mail (as referred to 
        in paragraph (1)) divided by the number (as determined by the 
        Postmaster General) of addresses (other than business possible 
        delivery stops) in the Congressional district from which the 
        Member was elected (as such addresses are described in section 
        3210(d)(7)(B) of title 39, United States Code).

[[Page 110 STAT. 2415]]

    (c) <<NOTE: Rules and regulations.>> The Committee on House 
Oversight shall prescribe such rules and regulations and shall take such 
other action as the Committee considers necessary and proper for Members 
to conform to the provisions of this subsection and applicable rules and 
regulations.

    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``Member of the House of Representatives'' 
        means a Representative in, or a Delegate or Resident 
        Commissioner to, the Congress; and
            (2) the term ``mass mailing'' has the meaning given such 
        term by section 3210(a)(6)(E) of title 39, United States Code.

    (e) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to sessions of Congress beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

    Sec. 312. (a) Section 203(a)(3) of Public Law 104-1 (2 U.S.C. 
1313(a)(3)) is amended by inserting ``and in subsection (c)(4)'' after 
``(c)(3)''.
    (b) Section 203(c) of Public Law 104-1 (2 U.S.C. 1313(c)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following paragraph:
            ``(4) Law enforcement.--Law enforcement personnel of the 
        Capitol Police who are subject to the exemption under section 
        7(k) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 207(k)) 
        may elect to receive compensatory time off in lieu of overtime 
        compensation for hours worked in excess of the maximum for their 
        work period.''.

    Sec. 313. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 <<NOTE: 40 USC 188b-
6.>> is amended in the first sentence of subsection (a) by striking 
``1996'' and inserting ``1997''.

    Sec. 314. <<NOTE: Establishment. Science and technology. Tele- 
communications. 2 USC 181.>> (a) Upon enactment into law of this Act, 
there shall be established a program for providing the widest possible 
exchange of information among legislative branch agencies with the long-
range goal of improving information technology planning and evaluation. 
The Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate are requested to 
determine the structure and operation of this program and to provide 
appropriate <<NOTE: Reports.>> oversight. All of the appropriate offices 
and agencies of the legislative branch as defined below shall 
participate in this program for information exchange, and shall report 
annually on the extent and nature of their participation in their budget 
submissions to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

    (b) As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``offices and agencies of the legislative 
        branch'' means, the office of the Clerk of the House, the office 
        of the Secretary of the Senate, the office of the Architect of 
        the Capitol, the General Accounting Office, the Government 
        Printing Office, the Library of Congress, the Congressional 
        Research Service, the Congressional Budget Office, the Chief 
        Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Sergeant at Arms of the Senate; and
            (2) the term ``technology'' refers to any form of computer 
        hardware and software; computer-based systems, services, and 
        support for the creation, processing, exchange, and delivery of 
        information; and telecommunications systems, and the associated 
        hardware and software, that provide for voice, data, or image 
        communication.

[[Page 110 STAT. 2416]]

   prohibitions against political recommendations relating to federal 
                               employment

    Sec. 315. (a) In General.--Section 3303 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:

``Sec. 3303. Competitive service; recommendations of Senators or 
                        Representatives

    ``An individual concerned in examining an applicant for or 
appointing him in the competitive service may not receive or consider a 
recommendation of the applicant by a Senator or Representative, except 
as to the character or residence of the applicant.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--(1) The table of sections 
for chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by amending 
the item relating to section 3303 to read as follows:

``3303. Competitive service; recommendations of Senators or 
           Representatives.''.

    (2) Section 2302(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(2) solicit or consider any recommendation or statement, 
        oral or written, with respect to any individual who requests or 
        is under consideration for any personnel action unless such 
        recommendation or statement is based on the personal knowledge 
        or records of the person furnishing it and consists of--
                    ``(A) an evaluation of the work performance, 
                ability, aptitude, or general qualifications of such 
                individual; or
                    ``(B) an evaluation of the character, loyalty, or 
                suitability of such individual;''.

    (c) Effective Date.--This <<NOTE: 5 USC 2302 note.>> section shall 
take effect 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    Sec. 316. Limitation on Exclusive Copyrights for Literary Works in 
Specialized Format for the Blind and Disabled.--
    (a) In General.--Chapter 1 of title 17, United States Code, is 
amended by adding after section 120 the following new section:

``Sec. 121. Limitations on exclusive rights: reproduction for blind or 
                        other people with disabilities

    ``(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 106 and 710, it is 
not an infringement of copyright for an authorized entity to reproduce 
or to distribute copies or phonorecords of a previously published, 
nondramatic literary work if such copies or phonorecords are reproduced 
or distributed in specialized formats exclusively for use by blind or 
other persons with disabilities.
    ``(b)(1) Copies or phonorecords to which this section applies 
shall--
            ``(A) not be reproduced or distributed in a format other 
        than a specialized format exclusively for use by blind or other 
        persons with disabilities;
            ``(B) <<NOTE: Notice.>> bear a notice that any further 
        reproduction or distribution in a format other than a 
        specialized format is an infringement; and
            ``(C) <<NOTE: Notice.>> include a copyright notice 
        identifying the copyright owner and the date of the original 
        publication.

    ``(2) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to 
standardized, secure, or norm-referenced tests and related testing 
material, or to computer programs, except the portions thereof that are 
in conventional human language (including descriptions

[[Page 110 STAT. 2417]]

of pictorial works) and displayed to users in the ordinary course of 
using the computer programs.
    ``(c) For purposes of this section, the term--
            ``(1) `authorized entity' means a nonprofit organization or 
        a governmental agency that has a primary mission to provide 
        specialized services relating to training, education, or 
        adaptive reading or information access needs of blind or other 
        persons with disabilities;
            ``(2) `blind or other persons with disabilities' means 
        individuals who are eligible or who may qualify in accordance 
        with the Act entitled ``An Act to provide books for the adult 
        blind'', approved March 3, 1931 (2 U.S.C. 135a; 46 Stat. 1487) 
        to receive books and other publications produced in specialized 
        formats; and
            ``(3) `specialized formats' means braille, audio, or digital 
        text which is exclusively for use by blind or other persons with 
        disabilities.''.

    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 1 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by adding after 
the item relating to section 120 the following:

``121. Limitations on exclusive rights: reproduction for blind or other 
           people with disabilities.''.

    Sec. 317. <<NOTE: Jo Ann Emerson.>> For payment to Jo Ann Emerson, 
widow of Bill Emerson, late a Representative from the State of Missouri, 
$133,600.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1997''.

    Approved September 16, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3754:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 104-657 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 104-733 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-323 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            July 10, considered and passed House.
            July 29, 30, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Aug. 1, House agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 3, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Sept. 16, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>