[104th Congress Public Law 180]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ180.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 1569]]

Public Law 104-180
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 1997, and for other purposes. <<NOTE:  Aug. 6, 
                         1996 -  [H.R. 3603]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1997.>> assembled, That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1997, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $2,836,000: Provided, That not to exceed $11,000 of this amount, 
along with any unobligated balances of representation funds in the 
Foreign Agricultural Service shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, not otherwise provided for, as determined 
by the Secretary: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to pay the salaries and 
expenses of personnel of the Department of Agriculture to carry out 
section 793(c)(1)(C) of Public Law 104-127: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to enforce section 
793(d) of Public Law 104-127.

                          Executive Operations

                             chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost-benefit analysis, and the functions of 
the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a)

[[Page 110 STAT. 1570]]

of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,231,000.

                        national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,718,000.

                  office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,986,000.

                         Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,283,000: Provided, 
That the Chief Financial Officer shall actively market cross-servicing 
activities of the National Finance Center.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded in this 
Act, $613,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings, $120,548,000: 
Provided, That in the event an agency within the Department should 
require modification of space needs, the Secretary of Agriculture may 
transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made available by this 
Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of this appropriation 
to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers shall not exceed 5 
percent of the funds made available for space rental and related costs 
to or from this account. In addition, for construction, repair, 
improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or 
facilities as necessary to carry out the programs of the Department, 
where not otherwise provided, $23,505,000, to remain available until 
expended; making a total appropriation of $144,053,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1571]]

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 
U.S.C. 9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be 
transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in meeting all 
requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal 
lands.

                       Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Departmental Administration, $30,529,000, to provide for 
necessary expenses for management support services to offices of the 
Department and for general administration and disaster management of the 
Department, repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies 
and expenses not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical 
and efficient work of the Department, including employment pursuant to 
the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $10,000 is for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this appropriation shall be reimbursed from 
applicable appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to 
the holding of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
in this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,668,000: Provided, That no other 
funds appropriated to the Department in this Act shall be available to 
the Department for support of activities of congressional relations: 
Provided further, That not less than $2,241,000 shall be transferred to 
agencies funded in this Act to maintain personnel at the agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the dissemination 
of agricultural information, and the coordination of information, work, 
and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, $8,138,000, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not 
to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1572]]

                     Office of the Inspector General

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, $63,028,000, including such sums as may be 
necessary for contracting and other arrangements with
public agencies and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, including a sum not to exceed 
$50,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to 
exceed $95,000 for certain confidential operational expenses including 
the payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of 
Public Law 97-98: Provided, That funds transferred to the Office of the 
Inspector General through forfeiture proceedings or from the Department 
of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the Treasury 
Forfeiture Fund, as a participating agency, as an equitable share from 
the forfeiture of property in investigations in which the Office of the 
Inspector General participates, or through the granting of a Petition 
for Remission or Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this 
account for law enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector 
General Act of 1978, as amended, to remain available until expended.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$27,749,000.

   Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service, and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$540,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$53,109,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
marketing surveys, and the Census of Agriculture notwithstanding 13 
U.S.C. 142(a-b), as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 
(7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws,

[[Page 110 STAT. 1573]]

$100,221,000, of which up to $17,500,000 shall be available until 
expended for the Census of Agriculture: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

                      Agricultural Research Service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, $716,826,000: Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available for temporary 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $115,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>> That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase 
of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, <<NOTE: 7 
USC 2254.>>  That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant 
to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of 
constructing any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for 
headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and 
except for ten buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to 
exceed $500,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during 
the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $250,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act shall 
not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities at 
Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That the foregoing limitations 
shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry out the Act 
of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That funds may be 
received from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or 
individual for the purpose of establishing or operating any research 
facility or research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as 
authorized by law: Provided further, <<NOTE: Public lands. Southeastern 
Oklahoma State University.>> That all rights and title of the United 
States in the property known as the National Agricultural Water Quality 
Laboratory of the United States Department of Agriculture, consisting of 
approximately 9.161 acres in the city of Durant, Oklahoma, including 
facilities and fixed equipment, shall be conveyed to Southeastern 
Oklahoma State University.

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided,

[[Page 110 STAT. 1574]]

$69,100,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): 
Provided, That funds may be received from any State, other political 
subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing 
any research facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as 
authorized by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                    research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $168,734,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i); $20,497,000 for grants for cooperative 
forestry research (16 U.S.C. 582a-582-a7); $27,735,000 for payments to 
the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 
3222); $49,767,000 for special grants for agricultural research (7 
U.S.C. 450i(c)); $11,769,000 for special grants for agricultural 
research on improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $94,203,000 for 
competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); $4,775,000 for the 
support of animal health and disease programs (7 U.S.C. 3195); $650,000 
for supplemental and alternative crops and products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); 
$500,000 for grants for research pursuant to the Critical Agricultural 
Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and section 1472 of the Food and 
Agriculture Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3318), to remain available 
until expended; $475,000 for rangeland research grants (7 U.S.C. 3331-
3336); $3,000,000 for higher education graduate fellowships grants (7 
U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$4,000,000 for higher education challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); 
$1,000,000 for a higher education minority scholars program (7 U.S.C. 
3152(b)(5)), to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$1,500,000 for an education grants program for Hispanic-serving 
Institutions (7 U.S.C. 3241); $4,000,000 for aquaculture grants (7 
U.S.C. 3322); $8,000,000 for sustainable agriculture research and 
education (7 U.S.C. 5811); $9,200,000 for a program of capacity building 
grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) to colleges eligible to receive funds under 
the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including 
Tuskegee University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b); $1,450,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to 
section 534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $10,249,000 for necessary 
expenses of Research and Education Activities, of which not to exceed 
$100,000 shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, 
$421,504,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

               Native American Institutions Endowment Fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 130-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1575]]

                        buildings and facilities

  For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities and for grants 
to States and other eligible recipients for such purposes, as necessary 
to carry out the agricultural research, extension, and teaching programs 
of the Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, 
$61,591,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                          Extension Activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, as 
amended, to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and 
under section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail 
for cooperative extension agents and State extension directors, 
$268,493,000; $2,000,000 for extension work at the 1994 Institutions 
under the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)); payments for the 
nutrition and family education program for low-income areas under 
section 3(d) of the Act, $58,695,000; payments for the pest management 
program under section 3(d) of the Act, $10,783,000; payments for the 
farm safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,855,000; payments 
for the pesticide impact assessment program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,214,000; payments to upgrade 1890 land-grant college research, 
extension, and teaching facilities as authorized by section 1447 of 
Public Law 95-113, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $7,549,000, to remain 
available until expended; payments for the rural development centers 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $908,000; payments for a groundwater 
quality program under section 3(d) of the Act, $10,733,000; payments for 
the agricultural telecommunications program, as authorized by Public Law 
101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), $1,167,000; payments for youth-at-risk programs 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,554,000; payments for a food safety 
program under section 3(d) of the
Act, $2,365,000; payments for carrying out the provisions of the 
Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978, $3,192,000; payments for 
Indian reservation agents under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,672,000; 
payments for sustainable agriculture programs under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural health and safety education as 
authorized by section 2390 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 
2662), $2,628,000; payments for cooperative extension work by the 
colleges receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-
326, 328) and Tuskegee University, $24,337,000; and for Federal 
administration and coordination including administration of the Smith-
Lever Act, as amended, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-
349), as amended, and section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 
U.S.C. 301 note), and to coordinate and provide program leadership for 
the extension work of the Department and the several States and insular 
possessions, $12,066,000; in all, $425,520,000: Provided, That funds 
hereby appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 
1953, and section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, as amended, shall not 
be paid to any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and

[[Page 110 STAT. 1576]]

American Samoa prior to availability of an equal sum from non-Federal 
sources for expenditure during the current fiscal year.

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $618,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended (21 U.S.C. 114b-c), 
necessary to prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and animal 
diseases; to carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory 
activities; to discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture 
under the Act of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and 
to protect the environment, as authorized by law, $434,909,000, of which 
$4,500,000 shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, 
plant diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
birds to the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, 
That no funds shall be used to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
eradication program for the current fiscal year that does not require 
minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available for field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for the operation and maintenance of 
aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall be 
for replacement only: Provided further, That, in addition, in <<NOTE: 21 
USC 129.>> emergencies which threaten any segment of the agricultural 
production industry of this country, the Secretary may transfer from 
other appropriations or funds available to the agencies or corporations 
of the Department such sums as he may deem necessary, to be available 
only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication of contagious or 
infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for 
expenses in accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended, 
and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 1944, as amended, and any 
unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the next preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such transferred 
amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alteration 
of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the 
cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not 
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the building.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1577]]

    In fiscal year 1997 the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic and 
international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, or 
services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, without 
further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.
    Of the total amount available under this heading in fiscal year 
1997, $98,000,000 shall be derived from user fees deposited in the 
Agricultural Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension,
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized 
by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
428a, $3,200,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, and 
regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration and 
coordination of payments to States; including field employment pursuant 
to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $38,507,000, 
including funds for the wholesale market development program for the 
design and development of wholesale and farmer market facilities for the 
major metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $59,012,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating

[[Page 110 STAT. 1578]]

expenses, except for: (1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as 
authorized by the Fish and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers 
otherwise provided in this Act; and (3) not more than $10,576,000 for 
formulation and administration of marketing agreements and orders 
pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as 
amended, and the Agricultural Act of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, as amended, for the administration of the 
Packers and Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect 
purchasers of farm products, and the standardization activities related 
to grain under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended, 
including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $23,128,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

                    inspection and weighing services

         limitation on inspection and weighing service expenses

    Not to exceed $43,207,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $446,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, the Poultry Products Inspection 
Act, as amended, and the Egg Products Inspection Act, as amended, 
$574,000,000, and in addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this 
account from fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
authorized by section 1017 of Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for

[[Page 110 STAT. 1579]]

shell egg surveillance under section 5(d) of the Egg Products Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, That this appropriation shall 
be available for field employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C.
3109: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Farm Service Agency, Foreign 
Agricultural Service, and the Commodity Credit Corporation, $572,000.

                           Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Farm Service Agency, 
$746,440,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

                         dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, and 
in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk 
from commercial markets because of (1) the presence of products of 
nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer, or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances

[[Page 110 STAT. 1580]]

not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were not 
used in a manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling 
instructions provided at the time of use and the contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer, $100,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained in 
this Act shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer whose 
milk was removed from commercial markets as a result of his willful 
failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal Government: 
Provided further, That this amount shall be transferred to the Commodity 
Credit Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized 
to utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy indemnity 
disbursements.

               outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $600,000,000, of which $550,000,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,345,071,000, of which 
$1,700,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$200,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,000,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $25,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters; for boll weevil eradication program loans as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, $34,653,000; and for credit sales of 
acquired property, $25,000,000.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $27,975,000, of which 
$22,055,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, $96,840,000, 
of which $19,210,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$18,480,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $54,000; for emergency 
insured loans, $6,365,000 to meet the needs resulting from natural 
disasters for boll weevil eradication program loans as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1989, $499,000; and for credit sales of acquired property, 
$2,530,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $221,046,000, of which $208,446,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the ``Farm Service Agency, 
Salaries and Expenses'' account.

                        Office of Risk Management

    For administrative and operating expenses, as authorized by the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7

[[Page 110 STAT. 1581]]

U.S.C. 6933), $64,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $700 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, as 
authroized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, as amended, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1997, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed (estimated to be $1,500,000,000 in the President's 
fiscal year 1997 Budget Request (H. Doc. 104-162)), but not to exceed 
$1,500,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961, as 
amended (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).

        operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1997, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 
42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, That expenses shall be for operations and 
maintenance costs only and that other hazardous waste management costs 
shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation 
in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                          CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

   Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, $693,000.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1582]]

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$619,742,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $5,835,000 is for snow survey and water forecasting 
and not less than $8,825,000 is for operation and establishment of the 
plant materials centers: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall 
be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement 
of buildings and public improvements at plant materials centers, except 
that the cost of alterations and improvements to other buildings and 
other public improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, 
That when buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, 
that the right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 
2250a: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance and related expenses to carry out programs 
authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control Act of 1974, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation may be expended for soil and 
water conservation operations under the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
590a-590f) in demonstration projects: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed 
$25,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That qualified local engineers may be temporarily employed at 
per diem rates to perform the technical planning work of the Service (16 
U.S.C. 590e-2).

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, as amended 
(16 U.S.C. 1001-1009), $12,381,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1583]]

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, 
methods of cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of 
existing works and changes in use of land, in accordance with the 
Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, 
as amended (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005, 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the 
provisions of laws relating to the activities of the Department, 
$101,036,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of 
which up to $15,000,000 may be available for the watersheds authorized 
under the Flood Control Act approved June 22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 
U.S.C. 1006a), as amended and supplemented: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $200,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,000,000 of this 
appropriation is available to carry out the purposes of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), as 
amended, including cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to 
relocate endangered or threatened species to other suitable habitats as 
may be necessary to expedite project construction.

                  resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
590a-f), and the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-3461), 
$29,377,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                       forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized in the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

                                TITLE III

            RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

           Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Development to administer programs under the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing Service,

[[Page 110 STAT. 1584]]

Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of 
the Department of Agriculture, $588,000.

                          Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, 
as follows: $3,300,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $2,300,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $35,000,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $15,000,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$58,654,000 for section 515 rental housing; $600,000 for section 524 
site loans; $50,000,000 for credit sales of acquired property; and 
$600,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $89,210,000, of which 
$6,210,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $11,081,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$6,885,000; section 515 rental housing, $28,987,000;
credit sales of acquired property, $4,050,000; and section 523 self-help 
housing land development loans, $17,000.

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $366,205,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Housing 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 
$493,870,000; and in addition such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount not 
more than $5,900,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or payments 
for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the 
Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to nonprofit 
organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other than 
purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to section 
502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements entered into 
or renewed during fiscal year 1997 shall be funded for a five-year 
period, although the life of any such agreement may be extended to fully 
utilize amounts obligated.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1585]]

                   mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $26,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    rural housing assistance program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, agreements, and 
grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1479, 
1486, and 1490(a), except for sections 381E, 381H, 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $130,433,000, to remain 
available until expended, for direct loans and loan guarantees for 
community facilities, community facilities grant program, rental 
assistance associated with and direct loans for new construction of 
section 515 rental housing, rural housing for domestic farm labor 
grants, supervisory and technical assistance grants, very low-income 
housing repair grants, rural community fire protection grants, rural 
housing preservation grants, and compensation for construction defects 
of the Rural Housing Service: Provided, That the cost of direct loans 
and loan guarantees shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That the 
amounts appropriated shall be transferred to loan program and grant 
accounts as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available in this paragraph not more than $1,200,000 shall be 
available for the multi-family rural housing loan guarantee program as 
authorized by section 5 of Public Law 104-120: Provided further, That if 
such funds are not obligated for multi-family rural housing loan 
guarantees by June 30, 1997, they remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $1,200,000 shall be available for the cost 
of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants to be made available for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities as authorized by Public Law 
103-66: Provided further, That if such funds are not obligated for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities by June 30, 1997, they 
remain available for other authorized purposes under this head.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, as amended, title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, and cooperative agreements, $60,743,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944, and not to exceed 
$520,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1586]]

                   Rural Business-Cooperative Service

               rural development loan fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $17,270,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $37,544,000: Provided 
further, That through June 30, 1997, of the total amount appropriated 
$3,345,000 shall be available for the cost of direct loans, for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as authorized by title 
XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, $7,246,000.

            rural economic development loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$12,865,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$2,830,000. In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry 
out the direct loan program, $654,000, which shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and Expenses.''.

 alternative agricultural research and commercialization revolving fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$7,000,000 is appropriated to the alternative agricultural research and 
commercialization revolving fund.

             rural business--cooperative assistance program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1928, and 1932, except for 381E, 381H, 381N 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $51,400,000, to 
remain available until expended, for direct loans and loan guarantees 
for business and industry assistance, rural business grants, rural 
cooperative development grants, and rural business opportunity grants of 
the Rural Business--Cooperative Service: Provided, That the cost of 
direct loans and loan guarantees shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
$500,000 shall be available for grants to qualified nonprofit 
organizations as authorized under section 310B(c)(2) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932): Provided further, That

[[Page 110 STAT. 1587]]

the amounts appropriated shall be transferred to loan program and grant 
accounts as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That, of the 
total amount appropriated, not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be available 
for cooperative development: Provided further, That, of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $148,000 shall be available for the cost of 
direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants to be made available for 
business and industry loans for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities as authorized by Public Law 103-66 and rural development 
loans for empowerment zones and enterprise communities as authorized by 
title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993: Provided 
further, That if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities by June 30, 1997, they remain available for other 
authorized purposes under this head.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business--Cooperative Service, 
including administering the programs authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act, as amended; section 1323 of the Food Security 
Act of 1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for activities 
relating to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic 
research findings, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 
1946; for activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and cooperative agreements; 
$25,680,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944, and not to exceed $260,000 may be used for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

                         Rural Utilities Service

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), shall be made as 
follows: 5 percent rural electrification loans, $125,000,000, 5 percent 
rural telecommunications loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric 
loans, $525,000,000; and loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, 
rural electric, $300,000,000, and rural telecommunications, 
$120,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 935), as follows: cost of direct loans, $4,818,000; 
cost of municipal rate loans, $28,245,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $60,000; cost of loans guaranteed pursuant to 
section 306, $2,790,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
305(d)(2) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower interest 
rates may exceed 7 percent per year.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1588]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
Expenses.''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as 
amended, as may be necessary in carrying out its authorized programs for 
the current fiscal year. During fiscal year 1997 and within the 
resources and authority available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $175,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, 
as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), $2,328,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,500,000.

               distance learning and medical link program

    For the cost of direct loans and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
950aaa et seq., as amended, $9,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be available for loans and grants for telemedicine and 
distance learning services in rural areas: Provided, That the costs of 
direct loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974.

                   rural utilities assistance program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1928, and 1932, except for 381E, 381H, 381N 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $566,935,000, to 
remain available until expended, for direct loans and loan guarantees 
and grants for rural water and waste disposal, and solid waste 
management grants of the Rural Utilities Service: Provided, That the 
cost of direct loans and loan guarantees shall be as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided 
further, That the amounts appropriated shall be transferred to loan 
program and grant accounts as determined by the Secretary: Provided 
further, That, through June 30, 1997, of the total amount appropriated, 
$18,700,000 shall be available for the costs of direct loans, loan 
guarantees, and grants to be made available for empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided 
further, That, of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$18,700,000 shall be for water and waste disposal systems to benefit the 
Colonias along the United States/Mexico border, including grants 
pursuant to section 306C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act, as amended: Provided further, That, of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $5,200,000 shall be available for 
contracting with qualified national organizations for a circuit rider 
program

[[Page 110 STAT. 1589]]

to provide technical assistance for rural water systems: Provided 
further, That an amount not less than that available in fiscal year 1996 
be set aside and made available for ongoing technical assistance under 
sections 306(a)(14) (7 U.S.C. 1926) and 310(B)(b) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932): Provided further, That 
of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $8,750,000 shall be for 
water and waste disposal systems pursuant to section 757 of Public Law 
104-127: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 306(a)(7) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(7)), the 
town of Berlin, New Hampshire, shall be eligible during fiscal year 1997 
for a grant under the rural utilities assistance program.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, as amended, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act, as amended, and cooperative agreements, $33,195,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944, and not to exceed 
$105,000 may be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Consumer Service, 
$454,000.

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751-1769b), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1772-1785, and 1789); except sections 17 and 19; 
$8,653,297,000, to remain available through September 30, 1998, of which 
$3,219,544,000 is hereby appropriated and $5,433,753,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from funds available under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That not to exceed $1,000,000 
of the funds made available under this heading shall be used for studies 
and evaluations: Provided further, That up to $4,031,000 shall be 
available for independent verification of school food service claims.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,729,807,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1998: Provided, That none of the funds

[[Page 110 STAT. 1590]]

made available under this heading may be used to begin more than two 
studies and evaluations: Provided further, That up to $6,750,000 may be 
used to carry out the farmers' market nutrition program from any funds 
not needed to maintain current caseload levels: Provided further, That 
once the amount for fiscal year 1996 carryover funds has been determined 
by the Secretary, any funds in excess of $100,000,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Rural Utilities Assistance 
Program and/or to the Rural Housing Insurance Fund for the cost of 
direct section 502 loans, including the cost of modifying loans, as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
administrative expenses of WIC clinics except those that have an 
announced policy of prohibiting smoking within the space used to carry 
out the program: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in 
this account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula 
except in accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1786): Provided further, That State agencies required to 
procure infant formula using a competitive bidding system may use funds 
appropriated by this Act to purchase infant formula under a cost 
containment contract entered into after September 30, 1996 only if the 
contract was awarded to the bidder offering the lowest net price, as 
defined by section 17(b)(20) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, unless 
the State agency demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that 
the weighted average retail price for different brands of infant formula 
in the State does not vary by more than five percent.

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011 et seq.), $27,618,029,000: Provided, That funds provided herein 
shall remain available through September 30, 1997, in accordance with 
section 18(a) of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That $100,000,000 
of the foregoing amount shall be placed in reserve for use only in such 
amounts and at such times as may become necessary to carry out program 
operations: Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000,000 of the funds 
made available under this heading shall be used for studies and 
evaluations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or workfare requirements as may be required by law: 
Provided further, That $1,174,000,000 of the foregoing amount shall be 
available for nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 2028.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, as amended, and section 110 of the Hunger 
Prevention Act of 1988, $166,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1998: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1591]]

               food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), and section 
311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3030a), 
$141,250,000, to remain available through September 30, 1998.

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $106,128,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon 
handling, and assistance in the prevention, identification, and 
prosecution of fraud and other violations of law: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), 
and not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

         Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and 
for enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural work, including not 
to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and for expenses 
pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
1766), $135,561,000, of which $3,231,000 may be transferred from the 
Export Loan Program account in this Act, and $1,035,000 may be 
transferred from the Public Law 480 program account in this Act: 
Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse 
this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, 
public and private organizations and institutions under agreements 
executed pursuant to the agricultural food production assistance 
programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs of the 
International Development Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 2392).

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

                public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1715, 1721-1726, 1727-1727f, 1731-
1736g), as follows: (1) $226,900,000 for Public Law 480 title I credit, 
including Food for Progress programs; (2)

[[Page 110 STAT. 1592]]

$13,905,000 is hereby appropriated for ocean freight differential costs 
for the shipment of agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said 
Act and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended; (3) $837,000,000 
is hereby appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with 
dispositions abroad pursuant to title II of said Act; and (4) 
$29,500,000 is hereby appropriated for commodities supplied in 
connection with dispositions abroad pursuant to title III of said Act: 
Provided, That not to exceed 15 percent of the funds made available to 
carry out any title of said Act may be used to carry out any other title 
of said Act: Provided further, That such sums shall remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 
and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended, including the cost of 
modifying credit agreements under said Act, $185,589,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as 
amended, to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are 
utilized, $1,780,000.

        commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, $3,820,000; 
to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the 
Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which not to exceed $3,231,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the salaries and 
expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, and of which not to exceed 
$589,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the 
salaries and expenses of the Farm Service Agency.

                              export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$5,500,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program extended to finance the export sales of United States 
agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as authorized by 
section 202 (a) and (b) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5641).

[[Page 110 STAT. 1593]]

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for rental of 
special purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $907,499,000, of 
which not to exceed $87,528,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
derived from applications received during fiscal year 1997 shall be 
subject to the fiscal year 1997 limitation: Provided further, That none 
of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 801 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this account, to remain available 
until expended.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 601. <<NOTE: 21 USC 353 note.>> Effective Medication Guides.--

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human 
Services shall request that national organizations representing health 
care professionals, consumer organizations, voluntary health agencies, 
the pharmaceutical industry, drug wholesalers, patient drug information 
database companies, and other relevant parties collaborate to develop a 
long-range comprehensive action plan to achieve goals consistent with 
the goals of the proposed rule of the Food and Drug Administration on 
``Prescription Drug Product Labeling: Medication Guide Requirements'' 
(60 Fed. Reg. 44182; relating to the provision of oral and written 
prescription information to consumers).
    (b) Goals.--Goals consistent with the proposed rule described in 
subsection (a) are the distribution of useful written information to 75 
percent of individuals receiving new precriptions by the year 2000 and 
to 95 percent by the year 2006.
    (c) Plan.--The plan described in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) identify the plan goals;
            (2) assess the effectiveness of the current private-sector 
        approaches used to provide oral and written prescription 
        information to consumers;

[[Page 110 STAT. 1594]]

            (3) <<NOTE: Guidelines.>> develop guidelines for providing 
        effective oral and written prescription information consistent 
        with the findings of any such assessment;
            (4) contain elements necessary to ensure the transmittal of 
        useful information to the consuming public, including being 
        scientifically accurate, non-promotional in tone and content, 
        sufficiently specific and comprehensive as to adequately inform 
        consumers about the use of the product, and in an 
        understandable, legible format that is readily comprehensible 
        and not confusing to consumers expected to use the product.
            (5) develop a mechanism to assess periodically the quality 
        of the oral and written prescription information and the 
        frequency with which the information is provided to consumers; 
        and
            (6) provide for compliance with relevant State board 
        regulations.

    (d) Limitation on the Authority of the Secretary.--The Secretary of 
the Department of Health and Human Services shall have no authority to 
implement the proposed rule described in subsection (a), or to develop 
any similar regulation, policy statement, or other guideline specifying 
a uniform content or format for written information voluntarily provided 
to consumers about prescription drugs if, (1) not later than 120 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the national organizations 
described in subsection (a) develop and submit to the Secretary for 
Health and Human Services a comprehensive, long-range action plan (as 
described in subsection (a)) which shall be acceptable to the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services; (2) the aforementioned plan is submitted 
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for review and acceptance: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall give due consideration to the 
submitted plan and that any such acceptance shall not be arbitrarily 
withheld; and (3) the implementation of (a) a plan accepted by the 
Secretary commences within 30 days of the Secretary's acceptance of such 
plan, or (b) the plan submitted to the Secretary commences within 60 
days of the submission of such plan if the Secretary fails to take any 
action on the plan within 30 days of the submission of the plan. The 
Secretary shall accept, reject or suggest modifications to the plan 
submitted within 30 days of its submission. The Secretary may confer 
with and assist private parties in the development of the plan described 
in subsections (a) and (b).
    (e) Secretary Review.--Not later than January 1, 2001, the Secretary 
of the Department of Health and Human Services shall review the status 
of private-sector initiatives designed to achieve the goals of the plan 
described in subsection (a), and if such goals are not achieved, the 
limitation in subsection (d) shall not apply, and the Secretary shall 
seek public comment on other initiatives that may be carried out to meet 
such goals.
    Sec. 602. Section 3 of the Saccharin Study and Labeling Act (21 
U.S.C 348 note) is amended by striking out ``May 1, 1997'' and inserting 
in lieu thereof ``May 1, 2002''.
    Sec. 603. Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.--
    (a) Imports for Export.--Section 801(d)(3) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act <<NOTE: 21 USC 381.>> is amended--

[[Page 110 STAT. 1595]]

            (1) by striking ``accessory of a device which is ready'' and 
        inserting ``accessory of a device, or other article of device 
        requiring further processing, which is ready'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``is intended to be'' 
        and inserting ``is intended to be further processed by the 
        initial owner or consignee, or''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) by striking ``part,'' and inserting ``part, 
                article,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``incorporated'' and inserting 
                ``incorporated or further processed''.

    (b) Labeling of Exported Drugs.--Section 801(f) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act <<NOTE: 21 USC 381.>>  is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``If a drug'' and 
        inserting ``If a drug (other than insulin, an antibiotic drug, 
        an animal drug, or a drug exported under section 802)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new 
        sentence: ``A drug exported under section 802 is exempt from 
        this section.''.

    (c) Export of Certain Unapproved Drugs and Devices.--Section 
802(f)(5) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act <<NOTE: 21 USC 
382.>> is amended by striking ``if the drug or device is not labeled'' 
and inserting ``if the labeling of the drug or device is not''.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $21,350,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                          rental payments (fda)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration 
which are included in this Act, $46,294,000: Provided, That in the event 
the Food and Drug Administration should require modification of space 
needs, a share of the salaries and expenses appropriation may be 
transferred to this appropriation, or a share of this appropriation may 
be transferred to the salaries and expenses appropriation, but such 
transfers shall not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for 
rental payments (FDA) to or from this account.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

   payments to the farm credit system financial assistance corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, for 
reimbursement of interest expenses incurred by the Financial

[[Page 110 STAT. 1596]]

Assistance Corporation on obligations issued through 1994, as authorized 
$10,290,000.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include 
multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not 
to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $55,101,000, 
including not to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to charge 
reasonable fees to attendees of Commission sponsored educational events 
and symposia to cover the Commission's costs of providing those events 
and symposia, and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be 
credited to this account, to be available without further appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $37,478,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions and from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 1997 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 667 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 643 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefore as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1623a.>> 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the 
appropriations of the Department of Agriculture in this Act for research 
and service work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said 
Acts and chapter.

    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance
Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided, That no funds 
in this Act appropriated to an agency of the Department shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the approval of the 
agency administrator.

    Sec. 705. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b.>> New obligational authority provided 
for the following appropriation items in this Act shall remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, the contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit

[[Page 110 STAT. 1597]]

fly program, and integrated systems acquisition project; Farm Service 
Agency, salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; 
and Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training 
program.

    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field automation 
and information management project; funds appropriated for rental 
payments; funds for the Native American institutions endowment fund in 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, and 
funds for the competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.
    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to 
carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This does 
not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. <<NOTE: 7 USC 612c note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, commodities acquired by the Department in 
connection with Commodity Credit Corporation and section 32 price 
support operations may be used, as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 
7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide commodities to individuals in cases of 
hardship as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs in excess of the amounts specified in this Act; 
nor shall this or any other provision of law require a reduction in the 
level of rental space or services below that of fiscal year 1996 or 
prohibit an expansion of rental space or services with the use of funds 
otherwise appropriated in this Act. Further, no agency of the Department 
of Agriculture, from funds otherwise available, shall reimburse the 
General Services Administration for payment of space rental and related 
costs provided to such agency at a percentage rate which is greater than 
is available in the case of funds appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 712. With the exception of grants awarded under the Small 
Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219, as 
amended (15 U.S.C. 638), none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available to pay indirect costs on research grants

[[Page 110 STAT. 1598]]

awarded competitively by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and 
Extension Service that exceed 14 percent of total Federal funds provided 
under each award.
    Sec. 713. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 714. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1997 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1997 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; and 
the rural economic development loans program account.
    Sec. 715. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1997 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 716. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').

    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 717. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between Agricultural Marketing 
Service or the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a State or 
Cooperator to carry out agricultural marketing programs or to carry out 
programs to protect the Nation's animal and plant resources.
    Sec. 718. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5% of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank or to maintain 
any account or subaccount within the accounting

[[Page 110 STAT. 1599]]

records of the Rural Telephone Bank the creation of which has not 
specifically been authorized by statute: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury or to 
the Federal Financing Bank any unobligated balance of the Rural 
Telephone Bank telephone liquidating account which is in excess of 
current requirements and such balance shall receive interest as set 
forth for financial accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal Credit 
Reform Act of 1990.
    Sec. 719. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to provide food stamp benefits to households 
whose benefits are calculated using a standard deduction greater than 
the standard deduction in effect for fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 720. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide assistance to, or to pay the salaries of personnel who carry 
out a market promotion/market access program pursuant to section 203 of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623) that provides 
assistance to the United States Mink Export Development Council or any 
mink industry trade association.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act, or made available through the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
shall be used to enroll in excess of 130,000 acres in the fiscal year 
1997 wetlands reserve program, as authorized by section 3837 of title 
16, United States Code: Provided, That additional acreage may be 
enrolled in the program to the extent that non-Federal funds available 
to the Secretary are used to fully compensate for the cost of additional 
enrollments: Provided further, That the condition on enrollments 
provided in section 1237(b)(2)(B) of the Food Security Act of 1985, as 
amended (16 U.S.C. 3837(b)(2)(B)) shall be deemed met upon the 
enrollment of 43,333 acres through the use of temporary easements: 
Provided further, That the Secretary shall not enroll acres in the 
wetlands reserve program through the use of new permanent easements in 
fiscal year 1998 until the Secretary has enrolled at least 31,667 acres 
in the program through the use of temporary easements.
    Sec. 722. Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$1,000,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task forces 
of the Department of Agriculture except for panels used to comply with 
negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate competitively 
awarded grants.
    Sec. 723. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out an export enhancement program if the aggregate amount of 
funds and/or commodities under such program exceeds $100,000,000.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out a farmland protection program in excess of $2,000,000 
authorized by section 388 of Public Law 104-127.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who carry out a conservation farm option program in excess of $2,000,000 
authorized by section 335 of Public Law 104-127.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1600]]

    Sec. 726. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries of employees of the Department of Agriculture who 
make payments pursuant to a production flexibility contract entered into 
under section 111 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act 
of 1996 (Public Law 104-127; 7 U.S.C. 7211) when it is made known to the 
Federal official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that 
the land covered by that production flexibility contract is not being 
used for the production of an agricultural commodity or is not devoted 
to a conserving use, unless it is also made known to that Federal 
official that the lack of agricultural
production or the lack of a conserving use is a consequence of drought, 
flood, or other natural disaster.

    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to extend any existing or expiring contract in 
the Conservation Reserve Program authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3831-3845.
    Sec. 728. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
carry out the provisions of section 918 of Public Law 104-127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act.
    Sec. 729. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2272a.>> Hereafter, funds appropriated to 
the Department of Agriculture may be used for incidental expenses such 
as transportation, uniforms, lodging, and subsistence for volunteers 
serving under the authority of 7 U.S.C. 2272, when such volunteers are 
engaged in the work of the United States Department of Agriculture; and 
for promotional items of nominal value relating to the United States 
Department of Agriculture Volunteer Programs.

    Sec. 730. No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act to any 
other agency or office of the Department for more than 30 days unless 
the individual's employing agency or office is fully reimbursed by the 
receiving agency or office for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 731. Section 747 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 <<NOTE: Ante, p. 1125.>> is amended by inserting, 
``effective October 1, 1996,'' following ``The Secretary shall make 
grants'' in section 310B(e)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act: Provided, <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  That this section 
shall take effect upon enactment of this Act into law.

    Sec. 732. Labeling of Raw Poultry Products.--
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the final rule related to the labeling of 
raw poultry products promulgated by the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service on August 25, 1995 (60 Fed. Reg. 44395), and the final rule 
shall not be effective during fiscal year 1997.
    (b) Final Rule.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue a revised final 
rule related to the labeling of raw poultry products that--
            (1) maintains the standard that the term ``fresh'' may be 
        used only for raw poultry products the internal core temperature 
        of which has not fallen below 26/ Fahrenheit;
            (2) deletes the requirement that poultry products the 
        internal core temperature of which has ever been less than 26/ 
        Fahrenheit, but more than 0/ Fahrenheit, be labeled as ``hard 
        chilled'' or ``previously hard chilled'', except that--

[[Page 110 STAT. 1601]]

                    (A) the products shall be prohibited under the rule 
                from being labeled as ``fresh'' but shall not be 
                required to bear any specific alternative labeling; and
                    (B) nothing in this section shall be interpreted as 
                modifying the requirements for labeling of all poultry 
                products the internal core temperature of which has ever 
                fallen to 0/ Fahrenheit as ``frozen'';
            (3) provides for a tolerance from the 26/ Fahrenheit 
        standard established by the rule of--
                    (A) 1/ Fahrenheit for poultry products within an 
                official processing establishment;
                    (B) 2/ Fahrenheit for poultry products in commerce;
            (4) exempts from temperature testing wings, tenders, hearts, 
        livers, gizzards, necks, and products that undergo special 
        processing, such as sliced poultry products; and
            (5) in all other terms and conditions (including the period 
        of time permitted for implementation) is substantively identical 
        to the rule referred to in subsection (a).

    (c) Revised Labeling Standards.--Not later than 60 days after the 
issuance of a revised final rule under subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Agriculture, acting through the Administrator of the Food Safety and 
Inspection Service, shall issue a compliance directive for the 
enforcement of the revised labeling standards established by the rule, 
including standards for--
            (1) temperature testing that are based on measurements at 
        the center of the deepest muscle; and
            (2) sampling methods that ensure that the average of 
        individual temperatures within poultry product lots of each 
        specific product type (such as whole birds, whole muscle leg 
        products, and whole muscle breast products) meet the standards.

    (d) Severability.--If any provision of this section or the 
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the 
validity of the remainder of this section and of the application of the 
provision to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
    Sec. 733. <<NOTE: 21 USC 342 note.>>  Hereafter, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, any domestic fish or fish product produced in 
compliance with food safety standards or procedures accepted by the Food 
and Drug Administration as satisfying the requirements of the 
``Procedures for the Safe and Sanitary Processing and Importing of Fish 
and Fish Products'' (published by the Food and Drug Administration as a 
final regulation in the Federal Register of December 18, 1995), shall be 
deemed to have met any inspection requirements of the Department of 
Agriculture or other Federal agency for any Federal commodity purchase 
program, including the program authorized under section 32 of the Act of 
August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c) except that the Department of 
Agriculture or other Federal agency may utilize lot inspection to 
establish a reasonable degree of certainty that fish or fish products 
purchased under a Federal commodity purchase program, including the 
program authorized under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), meet Federal product specifications.

    Sec. 734. Rural Housing Program Extensions.--
    (a) Extension of Multifamily Rural Housing Loan Program.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 1602]]

            (1) Authority to make loans.--Section 515(b)(4) of the 
        Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485(b)(4)) is amended by 
        striking ``September 30, 1996'' and inserting ``September 30, 
        1997''.
            (2) Set-aside for nonprofit entities.--The first sentence of 
        section 515(w)(1) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
        1485(w)(1)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 1996'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 1997''.

    (b) Extension of Housing in Underserved Areas Program.--The first 
sentence of section 509(f)(4)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
1479(f)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 1996'' and inserting 
``fiscal year 1997''.
    (c) Reforms for Multifamily Rural Housing Loan Program.--
            (1) Limitation on project transfers.--Section 515 of the 
        Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485) is amended by inserting 
        after subsection (g) the following new subsection:

    ``(h) Project Transfers.--After the date of the enactment of the Act 
entitled `An Act making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies programs 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, and for other purposes', 
the ownership or control of a project for which a loan is made or 
insured under this section may be transferred only if the Secretary 
determines that such transfer would further the provision of housing and 
related facilities for low-income families or persons and would be in 
the best interests of residents and the Federal Government.''.
            (2) Equity loans.--Section 515(t) of the Housing Act of 1949 
        (42 U.S.C. 1485(t)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (8) as 
                paragraphs (4) through (6), respectively.
            (3) Equity takeout loans to extend low-income use.--
                    (A) Authority and limitation.--Section 
                502(c)(4)(B)(iv) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 
                1472(c)(4)(B)(iv)) is amended by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``or under paragraphs 
                (1) and (2) of section 514(j), except that an equity 
                loan referred to in this clause may not be made 
                available after the date of the enactment of the Act 
                entitled `An Act making appropriations for Agriculture, 
                Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
                Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
                September 30, 1997, and for other purposes', unless the 
                Secretary determines that the other incentives available 
                under this subparagraph are not adequate to provide a 
                fair return on the investment of the borrower, to 
                prevent prepayment of the loan insured under section 514 
                or 515, or to prevent the displacement of tenants of the 
                housing for which the loan was made''.
                    (B) Approval of assistance.--Section 502(c)(4)(C) of 
                the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472(c)(4)(C)) is 
                amended by striking ``(C)'' and all that follows through 
                ``provided--
                '' and inserting the following:

    ``(C) Approval of assistance.--The Secretary may approve assistance 
under subparagraph (B) for assisted housing only if the restrictive 
period has expired for any loan for the housing made or insured under 
section 514 or 515 pursuant to a contract

[[Page 110 STAT. 1603]]

entered into after December 21, 1979, but before the date of the 
enactment of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act 
of 1989, and the Secretary determines that the combination of assistance 
provided--''.
                    (C) Technical correction.--Section 515(c)(1) of the 
                Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485(c)(1)) is amended by 
                striking ``December 21, 1979'' and inserting ``December 
                15, 1989''.

    (d) Reform of Section 515.--Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 
(42 U.S.C. 1485) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (r) and inserting the following:

    ``(r)(1) the Secretary--
            ``(A) may require that the initial operating reserve under 
        this section may be in the form of an irrevocable letter of 
        credit; and
            ``(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), may require not 
        more than a 3 percent contribution to equity, except that the 
        Secretary shall require a 5 percent contribution in the case of 
        a project that is allocated a low-income housing tax credit 
        pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

    ``(2) The Secretary may adjust the amount of equity contribution to 
ensure that assistance provided is not more than is necessary to provide 
affordable housing after taking account of assistance from all Federal, 
State, and local sources.
    ``(3) <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  Not later than 60 days after the date 
of enactment of the Act entitled `An Act making appropriations for 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and 
Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, 
and for other purposes', the Secretary shall issue regulations to 
implement subsection (r)(2) in accordance with the negotiated rulemaking 
procedures set forth in subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5, United 
States Code: Provided, That if the negotiated rulemaking is not 
completed within the designated time, the Secretary shall proceed to 
promulgate regulations under the rulemaking authority contained in 5 
U.S.C. 557.''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (z).

    (e) Equity Skimming Penalties.--
            (1) Insurance of loans for the provision of housing and 
        related facilities for domestic farm labor.--Section 514 of the 
        Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new subsection:

    ``(j) Equity Skimming Penalty.--Whoever, as an owner, agent, or 
manger, or who is otherwise in custody, control, or possession of 
property that is security for a loan made or insured under this section 
willfully uses, or authorizes the use, of any part of the rents, assets, 
proceeds, income, or other funds derived from such property, for any 
purpose other than to meet actual or necessary expenses of the property, 
or for any other purpose not authorized by this title or the regulations 
adopted pursuant to this title, shall be fined not more than $250,000 or 
imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.''.
            (2) Direct and insured loans to provide housing and related 
        facilities for elderly persons and families in rural areas.--
        Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485), as 
        amended by subsection (d)(2) of this section, is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new subsection:

[[Page 110 STAT. 1604]]

    ``(z) Equity Skimming Penalty.--Whoever, as an owner, agent, or 
manager, or who is otherwise in custody, control, or possession of 
property that is security for a loan made or insured under this section 
willfully uses, or authorizes the use, of any part of the rents, assets, 
proceeds, income, or other fund derived from such property, for any 
purpose other than to meet actual or necessary expenses of the property, 
or for any other purpose not authorized by this title or the regulations 
adopted pursuant to this title, shall be fined not more than $250,000 or 
imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.''.
    (f) Prioritization of Assistance.--Section 532 of the Housing Act of 
1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490l) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c), the 
        Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) Prioritization of Section 515 Housing Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall make assistance under 
        section 515 available pursuant to an objective procedure 
        established by the Secretary, under which the Secretary shall 
        identify counties and communities having the greatest need for 
        such assistance and designate such counties and communities to 
        receive such assistance.
            ``(2) Objective measures.--The Secretary shall use the 
        following objective measures to determine the need for rental 
        housing assistance under paragraph (1):
                    ``(A) The incidence of poverty.
                    ``(B) The lack of affordable housing and the 
                existence of substandard housing.
                    ``(C) The lack of mortgage credit.
                    ``(D) The rural characteristics of the location.
                    ``(E) Other factors as determined by the Secretary, 
                demonstrating the need for affordable housing.
            ``(3) Information.--In administering this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall use information from the most recent decennial 
        census of the United States, relevant comprehensive affordable 
        housing strategies under section 105 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
        National Affordable Housing Act, and other reliable sources 
        obtained by the Secretary which demonstrate the need for 
        affordable housing in rural areas.
            ``(4) Designation.--A designation under this subsection 
        shall not be effective for a period of more than 3 years, but 
        may be renewed by the Secretary in accordance with the procedure 
        set forth in this subsection. The Secretary shall take such 
        other reasonable actions as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate to notify the public of such designations.''.

    Sec. 735. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5597 note.>> Department of Agriculture 
Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--

    (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``agency'' means the Department of Agriculture;
            (2) the term ``employee'' means an employee (as defined by 
        section 2105 of title 5, United States Code) who is employed by 
        the agency (or an individual employed by a county committee 
        established under section 8(b)(5) of the Soil Conservation and 
        Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)(5))), is serving under 
        an appointment without time limitation, and has been currently

[[Page 110 STAT. 1605]]

        employed for a continuous period of at least 3 years, but does 
        not include--
                    (A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of 
                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, 
                or another retirement system for employees of the 
                agency;
                    (B) an employee having a disability on the basis of 
                which such employee is or would be eligible for 
                disability retirement under the applicable retirement 
                system referred to in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) an employee who is in receipt of a specific 
                notice of involuntary separation for misconduct or 
                unacceptable performance;
                    (D) an employee who, upon completing an additional 
                period of service as referred to in section 
                3(b)(2)(B)(ii) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring 
                Act of 1994 (5 U.S.C. 5597 note), would qualify for a 
                voluntary separation incentive payment under section 3 
                of such Act;
                    (E) an employee who has previously received any 
                voluntary separation incentive payment by the Federal 
                Government under this section or any other authority and 
                has not repaid such payment;
                    (F) an employee covered by statutory reemployment 
                rights who is on transfer to another organization; or
                    (G) any employee who, during the twenty-four month 
                period preceding the date of separation, has received a 
                recruitment or relocation bonus under section 5753 of 
                title 5, United States Code, or who, within the twelve 
                month period preceding the date of separation, received 
                a retention allowance under section 5754 of title 5, 
                United States Code.

    (b) Agency Strategic Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The head of the agency, prior to obligating 
        any resources for voluntary separation incentive payments, shall 
        submit to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
        the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of 
        Representatives a strategic plan outlining the intended use of 
        such incentive payments and a proposed organizational chart for 
        the agency once such incentive payments have been completed.
            (2) Contents.--The agency's plan shall include--
                    (A) the positions and functions to be reduced or 
                eliminated, identified by organizational unit, 
                geographic location, occupational category and grade 
                level;
                    (B) the number and amounts of voluntary separation 
                incentive payments to be offered; and
                    (C) a description of how the agency will operate 
                without the eliminated positions and functions.

    (c) Authority to Provide Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--
            (1) In general.--A voluntary separation incentive payment 
        under this section may be paid by an agency to any employee only 
        to the extent necessary to eliminate the positions and functions 
        identified by the strategic plan.
            (2) Amount and treatment of payments.--A voluntary 
        separation incentive payment--
                    (A) shall be paid in a lump sum after the employee's 
                separation;

[[Page 110 STAT. 1606]]

                    (B) shall be paid from appropriations or funds 
                available for the payment of the basic pay of the 
                employees;
                    (C) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                          (i) an amount equal to the amount the employee 
                      would be entitled to receive under section 5595(c) 
                      of title 5, United States Code; or
                          (ii) an amount determined by the agency head 
                      not to exceed $25,000 in fiscal year 1997, $20,000 
                      in fiscal year 1998, $15,000 in fiscal year 1999, 
                      or $10,000 in fiscal year 2000;
                    (D) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not 
                be included in the computation, of any other type of 
                Government benefit; and
                    (E) shall not be taken into account in determining 
                the amount of any severance pay to which the employee 
                may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5, United 
                States Code, based on any other separation.
            (3) Limitation.--No amount shall be payable under this 
        section based on any separation occurring before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, or after September 30, 2000.

    (d) Additional Agency Contributions to the Retirement Fund.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to any other payments which it 
        is required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
        chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the agency shall 
        remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the 
        Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil Service 
        Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 15 percent of 
        the final basic pay of each employee of the agency who is 
        covered under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of 
        title 5, United States Code, to whom a voluntary separation 
        incentive has been paid under this section.
            (2) Definition.--For the purpose of paragraph (1), the term 
        ``final basic pay'', with respect to an employee, means the 
        total amount of basic pay which would be payable for a year of 
        service by such employee, computed using the employee's final 
        rate of basic pay, and, if last serving on other than a full-
        time basis, with appropriate adjustment therefor.

    (e) Effect of Subsequent Employment with the Government.--An 
individual who has received a voluntary separation incentive payment 
under this section and accepts any employment for compensation with the 
Government of the United States, or who works for any agency of the 
United States Government through a personal services contract, within 5 
years after the date of the separation on which the payment is based 
shall be required to pay, prior to the individual's first day of 
employment, the entire amount of the incentive payment to the agency 
that paid the incentive payment.
    (f) Reduction of Agency Employment Levels.--
            (1) In general.--The total number of funded employee 
        positions in the agency shall be reduced by one position for 
        each vacancy created by the separation of any employee who has 
        received, or is due to receive, a voluntary separation incentive 
        payment under this section. For the purposes of this subsection, 
        positions shall be counted on a full-time-equivalent basis.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1607]]

            (2) <<NOTE: President.>> Enforcement.--The President, 
        through the Office of Management and Budget, shall monitor the 
        agency and take any action necessary to ensure that the 
        requirements of this subsection are met.

    (g) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect October 1, 1996.
    Sec. 736. Interim Moratorium on Bypass Flows.--
    (a) Moratorium.--Section 389(a) of Public Law 104-127 <<NOTE: Ante, 
p. 1021.>> is amended by striking ``an 18-month'' after the word ``be'' 
and inserting ``a 20-month''.

    (b) Report.--Section 389(d)(4) of Public Law 104-127 is amended by 
striking ``1 year'' after the word ``than'' and inserting ``14 months''.
    (c) Extension for Delay.--Section 389 of Public Law 104-127 is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection--
    ``(e) Extension for Delay.--There shall be a day-for-day extension 
to the 20-month moratorium required by subsection (a) and a day-for-day 
extension to the report required by subsection (d)(4)--
            ``(1) for every day of delay in implementing or establishing 
        the Water Rights Task Force caused by a failure to nominate Task 
        Force members by the Administration or by the Congress; or
            ``(2) for every day of delay caused by a failure by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to identify adequate resources as 
        determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out the 
        purposes of the Task Force.''.

              TITLE VIII--SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND 
                 RESCISSION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING 
                           SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

                        DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                           Farm Service Agency

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

    For an additional amount for the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund 
Program Account for the additional cost of emergency insured loans 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, including the cost of modifying such 
loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
resulting from droughts in the Western United States, Hurricane Bertha, 
and other natural disasters, to remain available until expended, 
$32,244,000: Provided, That these funds are available to subsidize 
additional gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans of 
$110,000,000: Provided further, That the entire amount is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as 
amended: Provided further, <<NOTE: President.>>  That the amount shall 
be available to the extent that the President notifies Congress of his 
designation of any or all of these amounts as an emergency requirement 
under section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

[[Page 110 STAT. 1608]]

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Salaries and Expenses'', to be used 
in connection with investigations of arson or violence against religious 
institutions, $12,011,000, to remain available until expended.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           information systems

                              (rescission)

    Of the funds made available under this heading in Public Law 104-52, 
$16,500,000 are rescinded.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997''.

    Approved August 6, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3603:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 104-613 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 104-726 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-317 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            June 11, 12, considered and passed House.
            July 22-24, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Aug. 1, House and Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Aug. 6, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>