[104th Congress Public Law 332]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ332.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 4073]]

Public Law 104-332
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for ballast water management to prevent the introduction and 
 spread of nonindigenous species into the waters of the United States, 
     and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 26, 1996 -  [H.R. 4283]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: National 
Invasive Species Act of 1996. Environmental protection. Maritime 
affairs.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 4701 note.>>     (a) In General.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``National Invasive Species Act of 1996''.

    (b) References.--Whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to or repeal of a section or other 
provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or 
other provision of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and 
Control Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.).

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE NONINDIGENOUS AQUATIC NUISANCE PREVENTION AND 
            CONTROL ACT OF 1990.

    (a) Findings; Definitions.--
            (1) Findings.--Section 1002(a) (16 U.S.C. 4701(a)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting 
                the following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) when environmental conditions are favorable, 
        nonindigenous species become established, may compete with or 
        prey upon native species of plants, fish, and wildlife, may 
        carry diseases or parasites that affect native species, and may 
        disrupt the aquatic environment and economy of affected 
        nearshore areas;
            ``(3) the zebra mussel was unintentionally introduced into 
        the Great Lakes and has infested--
                    ``(A) waters south of the Great Lakes, into a good 
                portion of the Mississippi River drainage;
                    ``(B) waters west of the Great Lakes, into the 
                Arkansas River in Oklahoma; and
                    ``(C) waters east of the Great Lakes, into the 
                Hudson River and Lake Champlain;'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                          (i) by inserting ``by the zebra mussel and 
                      ruffe, round goby, and other nonindigenous 
                      species'' after ``other species''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4074]]

            ``(6) in 1992, the zebra mussel was discovered at the 
        northernmost reaches of the Chesapeake Bay watershed;
            ``(7) the zebra mussel poses an imminent risk of invasion in 
        the main waters of the Chesapeake Bay;
            ``(8) since the Chesapeake Bay is the largest recipient of 
        foreign ballast water on the East Coast, there is a risk of 
        further invasions of other nonindigenous species;
            ``(9) the zebra mussel is only one example of thousands of 
        nonindigenous species that have become established in waters of 
        the United States and may be causing economic and ecological 
        degradation with respect to the natural resources of waters of 
        the United States;
            ``(10) since their introduction in the early 1980's in 
        ballast water discharges, ruffe--
                    ``(A) have caused severe declines in populations of 
                other species of fish in Duluth Harbor (in Minnesota and 

                Wisconsin);
                    ``(B) have spread to Lake Huron; and
                    ``(C) are likely to spread quickly to most other 
                waters in North America if action is not taken promptly 
                to control their spread;
            ``(11) examples of nonindigenous species that, as of the 
        date of enactment of the National Invasive Species Act of 1996, 
        infest coastal waters of the United States and that have the 
        potential for causing adverse economic and ecological effects 
        include--
                    ``(A) the mitten crab (Eriocher sinensis) that has 
                become established on the Pacific Coast;
                    ``(B) the green crab (Carcinus maenas) that has 
                become established in the coastal waters of the Atlantic 
                Ocean;
                    ``(C) the brown mussel (Perna perna) that has become 
                established along the Gulf of Mexico; and
                    ``(D) certain shellfish pathogens;
            ``(12) many aquatic nuisance vegetation species, such as 
        Eurasian watermilfoil, hydrilla, water hyacinth, and water 
        chestnut, have been introduced to waters of the United States 
        from other parts of the world causing or having a potential to 
        cause adverse environmental, ecological, and economic effects;
            ``(13) if preventive management measures are not taken 
        nationwide to prevent and control unintentionally introduced 
        nonindigenous aquatic species in a timely manner, further 
        introductions and infestations of species that are as 
        destructive as, or more destructive than, the zebra mussel or 
        the ruffe infestations may occur;
            ``(14) once introduced into waters of the United States, 
        aquatic nuisance species are unintentionally transported and 
        introduced into inland lakes and rivers by recreational boaters, 
        commercial barge traffic, and a variety of other pathways; and
            ``(15) resolving the problems associated with aquatic 
        nuisance species will require the participation and cooperation 
        of the Federal Government and State governments, and investment 
        in the development of prevention technologies.''.
            (2) Definitions.--Section 1003 (16 U.S.C. 4702) is 
        amended--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4075]]

                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and redesignating 
                paragraphs (2) through (8) as paragraphs (1) through 
                (7), respectively;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking 
                ``assistant Secretary'' and inserting ``Assistant 
                Secretary'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (15) as 
                paragraphs (11) through (17), respectively; and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (7), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the 
                following:
            ``(8) `Great Lakes region' means the 8 States that border on 
        the Great Lakes;
            ``(9) `Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe, band, nation, 
        or other organized group or community, including any Alaska 
        Native village or regional corporation (as defined in or 
        established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
        (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)) that is recognized as eligible for the 
        special programs and services provided by the United States to 
        Indians because of their status as Indians;
            ``(10) `interstate organization' means an entity--
                    ``(A) established by--
                          ``(i) an interstate compact that is approved 
                      by 
                      Congress;
                          ``(ii) a Federal statute; or
                          ``(iii) a treaty or other international 
                      agreement with respect to which the United States 
                      is a party; and
                    ``(B)(i) that represents 2 or more--
                          ``(I) States or political subdivisions 
                      thereof; or
                          ``(II) Indian tribes; or
                    ``(ii) that represents--
                          ``(I) 1 or more States or political 
                      subdivisions thereof; and
                          ``(II) 1 or more Indian tribes; or
                    ``(iii) that represents the Federal Government and 1 
                or more foreign governments; and
                    ``(C) has jurisdiction over, serves as forum for 
                coordinating, or otherwise has a role or responsibility 
                for the management of, any land or other natural 
                resource;''.

    (b) Aquatic Nuisance Species Control Program.--
            (1) Amendment to heading.--The heading to subtitle B (16 
        U.S.C. 4711 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:

``Subtitle B--Prevention of Unintentional Introductions of Nonindigenous 
                           Aquatic Species''.

            (2) Aquatic nuisance species.--Section 1101 (16 U.S.C. 4711) 
        is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1101. AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES IN WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.

    ``(a) Great Lakes Guidelines.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue voluntary 
        guidelines to prevent the introduction and spread of aquatic

[[Page 110 STAT. 4076]]

        nuisance species into the Great Lakes through the exchange of 
        ballast water of vessels prior to entering those waters.
            ``(2) Content of guidelines.--The guidelines issued under 
        this subsection shall--
                    ``(A) ensure to the maximum extent practicable that 
                ballast water containing aquatic nuisance species is not 
                discharged into the Great Lakes;
                    ``(B) protect the safety of--
                          ``(i) each vessel; and
                          ``(ii) the crew and passengers of each vessel;
                    ``(C) take into consideration different vessel 
                operating conditions; and
                    ``(D) be based on the best scientific information 
                available.

    ``(b) Regulations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Task Force, shall issue regulations to prevent the introduction 
        and spread of aquatic nuisance species into the Great Lakes 
        through the ballast water of vessels.
            ``(2) Content of regulations.--The regulations issued under 
        this subsection shall--
                    ``(A) apply to all vessels equipped with ballast 
                water tanks that enter a United States port on the Great 
                Lakes after operating on the waters beyond the exclusive 
                economic zone;
                    ``(B) require a vessel to--
                          ``(i) carry out exchange of ballast water on 
                      the waters beyond the exclusive economic zone 
                      prior to entry into any port within the Great 
                      Lakes;
                          ``(ii) carry out an exchange of ballast water 
                      in other waters where the exchange does not pose a 
                      threat of infestation or spread of aquatic 
                      nuisance species in the Great Lakes and other 
                      waters of the United States, as recommended by the 
                      Task Force under 
                      section 1102(a)(1); or
                          ``(iii) use environmentally sound alternative 
                      ballast water management methods if the Secretary 
                      determines that such alternative methods are as 
                      effective as ballast water exchange in preventing 
                      and controlling infestations of aquatic nuisance 
                      species;
                    ``(C) not affect or supersede any requirements or 
                prohibitions pertaining to the discharge of ballast 
                water into waters of the United States under the Federal 
                Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                    ``(D) provide for sampling procedures to monitor 
                compliance with the requirements of the regulations;
                    ``(E) prohibit the operation of a vessel in the 
                Great Lakes if the master of the vessel has not 
                certified to the Secretary or the Secretary's designee 
                by not later than the departure of that vessel from the 
                first lock in the St. Lawrence Seaway that the vessel 
                has complied with the requirements of the regulations;
                    ``(F) protect the safety of--
                          ``(i) each vessel; and
                          ``(ii) the crew and passengers of each vessel;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4077]]

                    ``(G) take into consideration different operating 
                conditions; and
                    ``(H) be based on the best scientific information 
                available.
            ``(3) Additional regulations.--In addition to 
        promulgating regulations under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Task Force, shall, not later than November 
        4, 1994, issue regulations to prevent the introduction and 
        spread of aquatic nuisance species into the Great Lakes through 
        ballast water carried on vessels that enter a 
        United States port on the Hudson River north of the George 
        Washington Bridge.
            ``(4) Education and technical assistance programs.--The 
        Secretary may carry out education and technical assistance 
        programs and other measures to promote compliance with the 
        regulations issued under this subsection.

    ``(c) Voluntary National Guidelines.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of the National Invasive Species Act of 1996, and 
        after providing notice and an opportunity for public comment, 
        the Secretary shall issue voluntary guidelines to prevent the 
        introduction and spread of nonindigenous species in waters of 
        the United States by ballast water operations and other 
        operations of vessels equipped with ballast water tanks.
            ``(2) Content of guidelines.--The voluntary guidelines 
        issued under this subsection shall--
                    ``(A) ensure to the maximum extent practicable that 
                aquatic nuisance species are not discharged into waters 
                of the United States from vessels;
                    ``(B) apply to all vessels equipped with ballast 
                water tanks that operate in waters of the United States;
                    ``(C) protect the safety of--
                          ``(i) each vessel; and
                          ``(ii) the crew and passengers of each vessel;
                    ``(D) direct a vessel that is carrying ballast water 
                into waters of the United States after operating beyond 
                the exclusive economic zone to--
                          ``(i) carry out the exchange of ballast water 
                      of the vessel in waters beyond the exclusive 
                      economic zone;
                          ``(ii) exchange the ballast water of the 
                      vessel in other waters where the exchange does not 
                      pose a threat of infestation or spread of 
                      nonindigenous species in waters of the United 
                      States, as recommended by the Task Force under 
                      section 1102(a)(1); or
                          ``(iii) use environmentally sound alternative 
                      ballast water management methods, including 
                      modification of the vessel ballast water tanks and 
                      intake systems, if the Secretary determines that 
                      such alternative 
                      methods are at least as effective as ballast water 
                      exchange in preventing and controlling 
                      infestations of aquatic nuisance species;
                    ``(E) direct vessels to carry out management 
                practices that the Secretary determines to be necessary 
                to reduce the probability of unintentional nonindigenous 
                species transfer resulting from--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4078]]

                          ``(i) ship operations other than ballast water 

                      discharge; and
                          ``(ii) ballasting practices of vessels that 
                      enter waters of the United States with no ballast 
                      water on board;
                <<NOTE: Records.>>     ``(F) provide for the keeping of 
                records that shall be submitted to the Secretary, as 
                prescribed by the guidelines, and that shall be 
                maintained on board each vessel and made available for 
                inspection, upon request of the Secretary and in a 
                manner consistent with subsection (i), in order to 
                enable the Secretary to determine compliance with the 
                guidelines, including--
                          ``(i) with respect to each ballast water 
                      exchange referred to in clause (ii), reporting on 
                      the precise location and thoroughness of the 
                      exchange; and
                          ``(ii) any other information that the 
                      Secretary considers necessary to assess the rate 
                      of effective compliance with the guidelines;
                    ``(G) provide for sampling procedures to monitor 
                compliance with the guidelines;
                    ``(H) take into consideration--
                          ``(i) vessel types;
                          ``(ii) variations in the characteristics of 
                      point of origin and receiving water bodies;
                          ``(iii) variations in the ecological 
                      conditions of waters and coastal areas of the 
                      United States; and
                          ``(iv) different operating conditions;
                    ``(I) be based on the best scientific information 
                available;
                    ``(J) not affect or supersede any requirements or 
                prohibitions pertaining to the discharge of ballast 
                water into waters of the United States under the Federal 
                Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); 
                and
                    ``(K) provide an exemption from ballast water 
                exchange requirements to passenger vessels with 
                operating ballast water systems that are equipped with 
                treatment systems designed to kill aquatic organisms in 
                ballast water, unless the Secretary determines that such 
                treatment systems are less effective than ballast water 
                exchange at reducing the risk of transfers of invasive 
                species in the ballast water of passenger vessels; and
                    ``(L) not apply to crude oil tankers engaged in the 
                coastwise trade.
            ``(3) Education and technical assistance programs.--Not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the National 
        Invasive Species Act of 1996, the Secretary shall carry out 
        education and technical assistance programs and other measures 
        to encourage compliance with the guidelines issued under this 
        subsection.

    ``(d) Report to Congress.--Not sooner than 24 months after the date 
of issuance of guidelines pursuant to subsection (c) and not later than 
30 months after such date, and after consultation with interested and 
affected persons, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress a 
report containing the information required pursuant to paragraphs (1) 
and (2) of subsection (e).
    ``(e) Periodic Review and Revision.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4079]]

            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        issuance of guidelines pursuant to subsection (c), and not less 
        frequently than every 3 years thereafter, the Secretary shall, 
        in accordance with criteria developed by the Task Force under 
        paragraph (3)--
                    ``(A) assess the compliance by vessels with the 
                voluntary guidelines issued under subsection (c) and the 
                regulations promulgated under this Act;
                    ``(B) establish the rate of compliance that is based 
                on the assessment under subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) assess the effectiveness of the voluntary 
                guidelines and regulations referred to in subparagraph 
                (A) in reducing the introduction and spread of aquatic 
                nuisance species by vessels; and
                    ``(D) as necessary, on the basis of the best 
                scientific information available--
                          ``(i) revise the guidelines and regulations 
                      referred to in subparagraph (A);
                          ``(ii) promulgate additional regulations 
                      pursuant to subsection (f)(1); or
                          ``(iii) carry out each of clauses (i) and 
                      (ii).
            ``(2) Special review and revision.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the Task Force makes a request to the Secretary for a 
        special review and revision for coastal and inland waterways 
        designated by the Task Force, the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) conduct a special review of guidelines and 
                regulations applicable to those waterways in accordance 
                with the review procedures under paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) as necessary, in the same manner as provided 
                under paragraph (1)(D)--
                          ``(i) revise those guidelines;
                          ``(ii) promulgate additional regulations 
                      pursuant to subsection (f)(1); or
                          ``(iii) carry out each of clauses (i) and 
                      (ii).
            ``(3) Criteria for effectiveness.--Not later than 18 months 
        after the date of enactment of the National Invasive Species Act 
        of 1996, the Task Force shall submit to the 
        Secretary criteria for determining the adequacy and 
        effectiveness of the voluntary guidelines issued under 
        subsection (c).

    ``(f) Authority of Secretary.--
            ``(1) General regulations.--If, on the basis of a periodic 
        review conducted under subsection (e)(1) or a special review 
        conducted under subsection (e)(2), the Secretary determines 
        that--
                    ``(A) the rate of effective compliance (as 
                determined by the Secretary) with the guidelines issued 
                pursuant to subsection (c) is inadequate; or
                    ``(B) the reporting by vessels pursuant to those 
                guidelines is not adequate for the Secretary to assess 
                the compliance with those guidelines and provide a rate 
                of compliance of vessels, including the assessment of 
                the rate of compliance of vessels under subsection 
                (e)(2),
        the Secretary shall promptly promulgate regulations that meet 
        the requirements of paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Requirements for regulations.--The regulations 
        promulgated by the Secretary under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) shall--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4080]]

                          ``(i) not be promulgated sooner than 180 days 
                      following the issuance of the report to Congress 
                      submitted pursuant to subsection (d);
                          ``(ii) make mandatory the requirements 
                      included in the voluntary guidelines issued under 
                      subsection (c); and
                          ``(iii) provide for the enforcement of the 
                      regula-
                      tions; and
                    ``(B) may be regional in scope.
            ``(3) International regulations.--The Secretary shall revise 
        regulations promulgated under this subsection to the extent 
        required to make such regulations consistent with the treatment 
        of a particular matter in any international agreement, agreed to 
        by the United States, governing management of the transfer of 
        nonindigenous aquatic species by vessel.

    ``(g) Sanctions.--
            ``(1) Civil penalties.--Any person who violates a regulation 
        promulgated under subsection (b) or (f) shall be liable for a 
        civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $25,000. Each day of a 
        continuing violation constitutes a separate violation. A vessel 
        operated in violation of the regulations is liable in rem for 
        any civil penalty assessed under this subsection for that 
        violation.
            ``(2) Criminal penalties.--Any person who knowingly 
        violates the regulations promulgated under subsection (b) or (f) 
        is guilty of a class C felony.
            ``(3) Revocation of clearance.--Upon request of the 
        Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury shall withhold or 
        revoke the clearance of a vessel required by section 4197 of the 
        Revised Statutes (46 U.S.C. App. 91), if the owner or operator 
        of that vessel is in violation of the regulations issued under 
        subsection (b) or (f).
            ``(4) Exception to sanctions.--This subsection does not 
        apply to a failure to exchange ballast water if--
                    ``(A) the master of a vessel, acting in good faith, 
                decides that the exchange of ballast water will threaten 
                the safety or stability of the vessel, its crew, or its 
                passengers; and
                    ``(B) the recordkeeping and reporting requirements 
                of the Act are complied with.

    ``(h) Coordination With Other Agencies.--In carrying out the 
programs under this section, the Secretary is encouraged to use, to the 
maximum extent practicable, the expertise, facilities, members, or 
personnel of established agencies and organizations that have routine 
contact with vessels, including the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service of the Department of Agriculture, the National Cargo Bureau, 
port administrations, and ship pilots' associations.
    ``(i) Consultation With Canada, Mexico, and Other Foreign 
Governments.--In developing the guidelines issued and regulations 
promulgated under this section, the Secretary is encouraged to consult 
with the Government of Canada, the Government of Mexico, and any other 
government of a foreign country that the Secretary, in consultation with 
the Task Force, determines to be necessary to develop and implement an 
effective international program for preventing the unintentional 
introduction and spread of nonindigenous species.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4081]]

    ``(j) International Cooperation.--The Secretary, in cooperation with 
the International Maritime Organization of the United Nations and the 
Commission on Environmental Cooperation established pursuant to the 
North American Free Trade Agreement, is encouraged to enter into 
negotiations with the governments of foreign countries to develop and 
implement an effective international program for preventing the 
unintentional introduction and spread of nonindigenous species.
    ``(k) Safety Exemption.--
            ``(1) Master discretion.--The master of a vessel is not 
        required to conduct a ballast water exchange if the master 
        decides that the exchange would threaten the safety or stability 
        of the vessel, its crew, or its passengers because of adverse 
        weather, vessel architectural design, equipment failure, or any 
        other extraordinary conditions.
            ``(2) Other requirements.--(A) In general.--Except as 
        provided in subparagraph (B), a vessel that does not exchange 
        ballast water on the high seas under paragraph (1) shall not be 
        restricted from discharging ballast water in any harbor.
            ``(B) Great lakes.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in a 
        case in which a vessel is subject to the regulations issued by 
        the Secretary under subsection (b).
            ``(3) Crude oil tanker ballast facility study.--(A) Within 
        60 days of the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is 
        operating, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Commerce 
        for Oceans and Atmosphere, affected shoreside ballast water 
        facility operators, affected crude oil tanker operators, and 
        interested parties, shall initiate a study of the effectiveness 
        of existing shoreside ballast water facilities used by crude oil 
        tankers in the coastwise trade off Alaska in preventing the 
        introduction of nonindigenous aquatic species into the waters 
        off Alaska, as well as the cost and feasibility of modifying 
        such facilities to improve such effectiveness.
            ``(B) The study required under subparagraph (A) shall be 
        submitted to the Congress by no later than October 1, 1997.

    ``(l) Non-Discrimination.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
vessels registered outside of the United States do not receive more 
favorable treatment than vessels registered in the United States when 
the Secretary performs studies, reviews compliance, determines 
effectiveness, establishes requirements, or performs any other 
responsibilities under this Act.''.
    (c) National Ballast Water Management Information.--Section 1102 (16 
U.S.C. 4712) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the 
        following:

``SEC. 1102. NATIONAL BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT INFORMATION.'';

            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by inserting ``, in 
                cooperation with the Secretary,'' before ``shall 
                conduct'' each place it appears;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``Lake Champlain 
                and other'' after ``economic uses of'';
            (3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:

    ``(b) Ecological and Ballast Water Discharge Surveys.--
            ``(1) Ecological surveys.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4082]]

                    ``(A) In general.--The Task Force, in cooperation 
                with the Secretary, shall conduct ecological surveys of 
                the 
                Chesapeake Bay, San Francisco Bay, and Honolulu Harbor 
                and, as necessary, of other estuaries of national 
                significance and other waters that the Task Force 
                determines--
                          ``(i) to be highly susceptible to invasion by 
                      aquatic nuisance species resulting from ballast 
                      water operations and other operations of vessels; 
                      and
                          ``(ii) to require further study.
                    ``(B) Requirements for surveys.--In conducting the 
                surveys under this paragraph, the Task Force shall, with 
                respect to each such survey--
                          ``(i) examine the attributes and patterns of 
                      invasions of aquatic nuisance species; and
                          ``(ii) provide an estimate of the 
                      effectiveness of ballast water management and 
                      other vessel management guidelines issued and 
                      regulations promulgated under this subtitle in 
                      abating invasions of aquatic 
                      nuisance species in the waters that are the 
                      subject of the survey.
            ``(2) Ballast water discharge surveys.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary, in cooperation 
                with the Task Force, shall conduct surveys of ballast 
                water discharge rates and practices in the waters 
                referred to in paragraph (1)(A) on the basis of the 
                criteria under clauses (i) and (ii) of such paragraph.
                    ``(B) Requirements for surveys.--In conducting the 
                surveys under this paragraph, the Secretary shall--
                          ``(i) examine the rate of, and trends in, 
                      ballast water discharge in the waters that are the 
                      subject of the survey; and
                          ``(ii) assess the effectiveness of voluntary 
                      guidelines issued, and regulations promulgated, 
                      under this subtitle in altering ballast water 
                      discharge practices to reduce the probability of 
                      accidental introductions of aquatic nuisance 
                      species.
            ``(3) Columbia river.--The Secretary, in cooperation with 
        the Task Force and academic institutions in each of the States 
        affected, shall conduct an ecological and ballast water 
        discharge survey of the Columbia River system consistent with 
        the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2).''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

    ``(e) Regional Research Grants.--Out of amounts appropriated to 
carry out this subsection for a fiscal year, the Under Secretary may--
            ``(1) make available not to exceed $750,000 to fund research 
        on aquatic nuisance species prevention and control in the 
        Chesapeake Bay through grants, to be competitively awarded and 
        subject to peer review, to universities and research 
        institutions;
            ``(2) make available not to exceed $500,000 to fund research 
        on aquatic nuisance species prevention and control in the Gulf 
        of Mexico through grants, to be competitively awarded and 
        subject to peer review, to universities and research 
        institutions;
            ``(3) make available not to exceed $500,000 to fund research 
        on aquatic nuisance species prevention and control for the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4083]]

        Pacific Coast through grants, to be competitively awarded and 
        subject to peer review, to universities and research 
        institutions;
            ``(4) make available not to exceed $500,000 to fund research 
        on aquatic nuisance species prevention and control for the 
        Atlantic Coast through grants, to be competitively awarded and 
        subject to peer review, to universities and research 
        institutions; and
            ``(5) make available not to exceed $750,000 to fund research 
        on aquatic nuisance species prevention and control in the San 
        Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary through grants, to be competitively 
        awarded and subject to peer review, to universities and research 
        institutions.

    ``(f) National Ballast Information Clearinghouse.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and maintain, 
        in consultation and cooperation with the Task Force and the 
        Smithsonian Institution (acting through the Smithsonian 
        Environmental Research Center), a clearinghouse of national data 
        concerning--
                    ``(A) ballasting practices;
                    ``(B) compliance with the guidelines issued pursuant 
                to section 1101(c); and
                    ``(C) any other information obtained by the Task 
                Force under subsection (b).
            ``(2) Report.--In consultation and cooperation with the Task 
        Force and the Smithsonian Institution (acting through the 
        Smithsonian Environmental Research Center), the 
        Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Task Force and the 
        Congress, on a biannual basis, a report that synthesizes and 
        analyzes the data referred to in paragraph (1) relating to--
                    ``(A) ballast water delivery and management; and
                    ``(B) invasions of aquatic nuisance species 
                resulting from ballast water.''.

    (d) Armed Services Ballast Water Program; Ballast Water Management 
Demonstration Program.--Subtitle B (16 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new sections:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 4713.>> ``SEC. 1103. ARMED SERVICES BALLAST WATER 
            PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Department of Defense Vessels.--Subject to operational 
conditions, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary, the Task Force, and the International Maritime Organization, 
shall implement a ballast water management program for seagoing vessels 
of the Department of Defense to minimize the risk of introduction of 
nonindigenous species from releases of ballast water.
    ``(b) Coast Guard Vessels.--Subject to operational conditions, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Task Force and the International 
Maritime Organization, shall implement a ballast water management 
program for seagoing vessels of the Coast Guard to minimize the risk of 
introduction of nonindigenous species from releases of ballast water.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 4714.>> ``SEC. 1104. BALLAST WATER MANAGEMENT 
            DEMONSTRATION 
            PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Technologies and Practices Defined.--For purposes of this 
section, the term `technologies and practices' means those technologies 
and practices that--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4084]]

            ``(1) may be retrofitted--
                    ``(A) on existing vessels or incorporated in new 
                vessel designs; and
                    ``(B) on existing land-based ballast water treatment 
                facilities;
            ``(2) may be designed into new water treatment facilities;
            ``(3) are operationally practical;
            ``(4) are safe for a vessel and crew;
            ``(5) are environmentally sound;
            ``(6) are cost-effective;
            ``(7) a vessel operator is capable of monitoring; and
            ``(8) are effective against a broad range of aquatic 
        nuisance species.

    ``(b) Demonstration Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--During the 18-month period beginning on 
        the date that funds are made available by appropriations 
        pursuant to section 1301(e), the Secretary of the Interior and 
        the Secretary of Commerce, with the concurrence of and in 
        cooperation with the Secretary, shall conduct a ballast water 
        management demonstration program to demonstrate technologies and 
        practices to prevent aquatic nonindigenous species from being 
        introduced into and spread through ballast water in the Great 
        Lakes and other waters of the United States.
            ``(2) Location.--The installation and construction of the 
        technologies and practices used in the demonstration program 
        conducted under this subsection shall be performed in the United 
        States.
            ``(3) Vessel selection.--In demonstrating technologies and 
        practices on vessels under this subsection, the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, shall--
                    ``(A) use only vessels that--
                          ``(i) are approved by the Secretary;
                          ``(ii) have ballast water systems conducive to 
                      testing aboard-vessel or land-based technologies 
                      and 
                      practices applicable to a significant number of 
                      merchant vessels; and
                          ``(iii) are--
                                    ``(I) publicly or privately owned; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) in active use for trade or 
                                other cargo shipment purposes during the 
                                demonstration;
                    ``(B) select vessels for participation in the 
                program by giving priority consideration--
                          ``(i) first, to vessels documented under 
                      chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code;
                          ``(ii) second, to vessels that are a majority 
                      owned by citizens of the United States, as 
                      determined by the Secretary; and
                          ``(iii) third, to any other vessels that 
                      regularly call on ports in the United States; and
                    ``(C) seek to use a variety of vessel types, 
                including vessels that--
                          ``(i) call on ports in the United States and 
                      on the Great Lakes; and
                          ``(ii) are operated along major coasts of the 
                      United States and inland waterways, including the 
                      San 
                      Francisco Bay and Chesapeake Bay.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4085]]

            ``(4) Selection of technologies and practices.--In selecting 
        technologies and practices for demonstration under this 
        subsection, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
        Commerce shall give priority consideration to technologies and 
        practices identified as promising by the National Research 
        Council Marine Board of the National Academy of Sciences in its 
        report on ships' ballast water operations issued in July 1996.
            ``(5) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of the National Invasive Species Act of 1996, the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall 
        prepare and submit a report to the Congress on the demonstration 
        program conducted pursuant to this section. The report shall 
        include findings and recommendations of the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of Commerce concerning technologies 
        and practices.

    ``(c) Authorities; Consultation and Cooperation With International 
Maritime Organization and Task Force.--
            ``(1) Authorities.--In conducting the demonstration 
        program under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior 
        may--
                    ``(A) enter into cooperative agreements with 
                appropriate officials of other agencies of the Federal 
                Government, agencies of States and political 
                subdivisions thereof, and private entities;
                    ``(B) accept funds, facilities, equipment, or 
                personnel from other Federal agencies; and
                    ``(C) accept donations of property and services.
            ``(2) Consultation and cooperation.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall consult and cooperate with the International 
        Maritime Organization and the Task Force in carrying out this 
        section.''.

    (e) Amendments to Subtitle C.--
            (1) Subtitle heading.--The heading to subtitle C (16 U.S.C. 
        4721 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:

    ``Subtitle C--Prevention and Control of Aquatic Nuisance Species 
                              Dispersal''.

            (2) Task force.--Section 1201 (16 U.S.C. 4721) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                          (i) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                      paragraph (5);
                          (ii) by redesignating paragraph (6) as 
                      paragraph (7); and
                          (iii) by inserting after paragraph (5) the 
                      following new paragraph:
            ``(6) the Secretary of Agriculture; and''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by inserting ``the Chesapeake 
                Bay Program, the San Francisco Bay-Delta Estuary 
                Program,'' before ``and State agencies''.
            (3) Research program.--Section 1202 (16 U.S.C. 4722) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (f)(1)(A), by inserting ``and 
                impacts'' after ``economic risks''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i)--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4086]]

                          (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(1) In general.--
                                The Task Force'' and inserting the 
                                following:
            ``(1) Zebra mussel.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Task Force'';
                                    (II) by striking ``(A) research'' 
                                and inserting the following:
                          ``(i) research'';
                                    (III) by striking ``(B) tracking'' 
                                and inserting the following:
                          ``(ii) tracking'';
                                    (IV) by striking ``(C) development'' 
                                and 
                                inserting the following:
                          ``(iii) development''; and
                                    (V) by striking ``(D) provision'' 
                                and inserting the following:
                          ``(iv) provision'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(2) 
                      Public 
                      facility research and development.--'' and 
                      inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Public facility research and develop-
                ment.--'';
                          (iii) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), as 
                      so redesignated, by striking the first sentence 
                      and inserting the following: ``The Assistant 
                      Secretary, in consultation with the Task Force, 
                      shall develop a program of research, technology 
                      development, and demonstration for the 
                      environmentally sound control of zebra mussels in 
                      and around public facilities.'';
                          (iv) in paragraph (1), by adding after 
                      subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, the 
                      following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Voluntary guidelines.--Not later than 1 year 
                after the date of enactment of this subparagraph, the 
                Task Force shall develop and submit to the Secretary 
                voluntary guidelines for controlling the spread of the 
                zebra mussel and, if appropriate, other aquatic nuisance 
                species through recreational activities, including 
                boating and fishing. Not later than 4 months after the 
                date of such submission, and after providing notice and 
                an opportunity for public comment, the Secretary shall 
                issue voluntary guidelines that are based on the 
                guidelines developed by the Task Force under this 
                subparagraph.''; and
                          (v) by adding at the end the following new 
                      paragraphs:
            ``(2) Dispersal containment analysis.--
                    ``(A) Research.--The Administrator of the 
                Environmental Protection Agency, in cooperation with the 
                National Science Foundation and the Task Force, shall 
                provide research grants on a competitive basis for 
                projects that--
                          ``(i) identify environmentally sound methods 
                      for controlling the dispersal of aquatic nuisance 
                      species, such as the zebra mussel; and
                          ``(ii) adhere to research protocols developed 
                      pursuant to subsection (f)(2).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4087]]

                    ``(B) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental 
                Protection Agency to carry out this paragraph, $500,000.
            ``(3) Dispersal barrier demonstration.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Assistant Secretary, in 
                consultation with the Task Force, shall investigate and 
                identify environmentally sound methods for preventing 
                and reducing the dispersal of aquatic nuisance species 
                between the Great Lakes-Saint Lawrence drainage and the 
                Mississippi River drainage through the Chicago River 
                Ship and Sanitary Canal, including any of those methods 
                that could be incorporated into the operation or 
                construction of the lock system of the Chicago River 
                Ship and Sanitary Canal.
                    ``(B) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the 
                date of enactment of this paragraph, the Assistant 
                Secretary shall issue a report to the Congress that 
                includes 
                recommendations concerning--
                          ``(i) which of the methods that are identified 
                      under the study conducted under this paragraph are 
                      most promising with respect to preventing and 
                      reducing the dispersal of aquatic nuisance 
                      species; and
                          ``(ii) ways to incorporate those methods into 
                      ongoing operations of the United States Army Corps 
                      of Engineers that are conducted at the Chicago 
                      River Ship and Sanitary Canal.
                    ``(C) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the 
                Army, to carry out this paragraph, $750,000.
            ``(4) Contributions.--To the extent allowable by law, in 
        carrying out the studies under paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the 
        Secretary of the Army may enter into an agreement with an 
        interested party under which that party provides in kind or 
        monetary contributions for the study.
            ``(5) Technical assistance.--The Great Lakes Environmental 
        Research Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
        Administration shall provide technical assistance to appropriate 
        entities to assist in the research conducted pursuant to this 
        subsection.''.
            (4) Implementation.--Section 1202(j)(1) (16 U.S.C. 
        4722(j)(1)) is amended by striking ``Not later than 18 months 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director'' and 
        inserting ``The Director, the Secretary,''.
            (5) Regional Coordination.--Section 1203 (16 U.S.C. 4723) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking the section heading and inserting 
                the following:

``SEC. 1203. REGIONAL COORDINATION.'';

                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) by striking ``(a) In General.--Not'' and 
                      inserting the following:

    ``(a) Great Lakes Panel.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not'';
                          (ii) by striking ``(1) identify'' and 
                      inserting the 
                      following:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4088]]

                    ``(A) identify'';
                          (iii) by striking ``(2) make'' and inserting 
                      the 
                      following:
                    ``(B) make'';
                          (iv) by striking ``(3) assist'' and inserting 
                      the 
                      following:
                    ``(C) assist'';
                          (v) by striking ``(4) coordinate'' and 
                      inserting the following:
                    ``(D) coordinate'';
                          (vi) by striking ``(5) provide'' and inserting 
                      the following:
                    ``(E) provide'';
                          (vii) by striking ``(6) submit'' and inserting 
                      the following:
                    ``(F) submit'';
                          (viii) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by inserting 
                                ``region'' before ``representatives''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraphs (A) through 
                                (F), by 
                                striking ``Great Lakes'' each place it 
                                appears and inserting ``Great Lakes 
                                region'';
                    (C) by striking ``(b) Consultation.--The Task 
                Force'' and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Consultation.--The Task Force'';
                    (D) by striking ``(c) Canadian Participation.--The 
                panel'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Canadian participation.--The panel'';
                    (E) in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a), as 
                so redesignated, by striking ``this section'' and 
                inserting ``this subsection''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsections:

    ``(b) Western Regional Panel.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of enactment of the National Invasive Species Act of 1996, the Task 
Force shall request a Western regional panel, comprised of Western 
region representatives from Federal, State, and local agencies and from 
private environmental and commercial interests, to--
            ``(1) identify priorities for the Western region with 
        respect to aquatic nuisance species;
            ``(2) make recommendations to the Task Force regarding an 
        education, monitoring (including inspection), prevention, and 
        control program to prevent the spread of the zebra mussel west 
        of the 100th Meridian pursuant to section 1202(i) of this Act;
            ``(3) coordinate, where possible, other aquatic nuisance 
        species program activities in the Western region that are not 
        conducted pursuant to this Act;
            ``(4) develop an emergency response strategy for Federal, 
        State, and local entities for stemming new invasions of aquatic 
        nuisance species in the region;
            ``(5) provide advice to public and private individuals and 
        entities concerning methods of preventing and controlling 
        aquatic nuisance species infestations; and
        <<NOTE: Reports.>>     ``(6) submit annually a report to the 
        Task Force describing activities within the Western region 
        related to aquatic nuisance species prevention, research, and 
        control.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4089]]

    ``(c) Additional Regional Panels.--The Task Force shall--
            ``(1) encourage the development and use of regional panels 
        and other similar entities in regions in addition to the Great 
        Lakes and Western regions (including providing financial 
        assistance for the development and use of such entities) to 
        carry out, with respect to those regions, activities that are 
        similar to the activities described in subsections (a) and (b); 
        and
            ``(2) cooperate with regional panels and similar entities 
        that carry out the activities described in paragraph (1).''.
            (6) State or interstate watershed aquatic nuisance species 
        management plan.--Section 1204 (16 U.S.C. 4724) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                          (i) by striking the subsection designation and 
                      heading and inserting the following:

    ``(a) State or Interstate Invasive Species Management Plans.--'';
                          (ii) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
                                following:
            ``(1) In general.--After providing notice and opportunity 
        for public comment, the Governor of each State may prepare and 
        submit, or the Governors of the States and the governments of 
        the Indian tribes involved in an interstate organization, may 
        jointly prepare and submit--'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``technical and financial 
                                assistance'' and inserting ``technical, 
                                enforcement, or financial assistance (or 
                                any combination thereof)''; and
                                    (III) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                                by inserting ``or within the interstate 
                                region involved'' after ``within the 
                                State'' each place it appears;
                          (iii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end of the subparagraph;
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraph 
                                (C) as subparagraph (D);
                                    (III) by inserting after 
                                subparagraph (B) the following:
                    ``(C) identify any authority that the State (or any 
                State or Indian tribe involved in the interstate 
                organization) does not have at the time of the 
                development of the plan that may be necessary for the 
                State (or any State or Indian tribe involved in the 
                interstate organization) to protect public health, 
                property, and the environment from harm by aquatic 
                nuisance species; and''; and
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (D), as so 
                                redesignated, by inserting ``, and 
                                enabling legislation'' before the 
                                period;
                          (iv) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by inserting ``or 
                                        interstate organization'' after 
                                        ``the State''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``Indian 
                                        tribes,'' after ``local 
                                        governments and regional 
                                        entities,''; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4090]]

                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                inserting ``or the appropriate official 
                                of an interstate organization'' after 
                                ``a State''; and
                          (v) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or the 
                      interstate organization'' after ``the Governor'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
                          (i) by striking ``or the Assistant Secretary, 
                      as appropriate under subsection (a),''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``approved management plans'' 
                      and inserting ``management plans approved under 
                      subsection (a)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:

    ``(c) Enforcement Assistance.--Upon request of a State or Indian 
tribe, the Director or the Under Secretary, to the extent allowable by 
law and in a manner consistent with section 141 of title 14, United 
States Code, may provide assistance to a State or Indian tribe in 
enforcing an approved State or interstate invasive species management 
plan.''.
    (f) Authorizations of Appropriations.--Section 1301 (16 U.S.C. 4741) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (2);
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(3) to the Secretary to carry out section 1101--
                    ``(A) $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 and 
                1998; and
                    ``(B) $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 
                through 2002;''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(4) for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2002, to carry 
        out paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1102(b)--
                    ``(A) $1,000,000 to the Department of the Interior, 
                to be used by the Director; and
                    ``(B) $1,000,000 to the Secretary; and
            ``(5) for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2002--
                    ``(A) $3,000,000, which shall be made available from 
                funds otherwise authorized to be appropriated if such 
                funds are so authorized, to the Under Secretary to carry 
                out section 1102(e); and
                    ``(B) $500,000 to the Secretary to carry out section 
                1102(f).'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995'' and 
                inserting ``1997 through 2002''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (1) through (7) and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) $6,000,000 to the Department of the Interior, to be 
        used by the Director to carry out sections 1202 and 1209;
            ``(2) $1,000,000 to the Department of Commerce, to be used 
        by the Under Secretary to carry out section 1202;
            ``(3) $1,625,000, which shall be made available from funds 
        otherwise authorized to be appropriated if such funds are so 
        authorized, to fund aquatic nuisance species prevention and 
        control research under section 1202(i) at the Great Lakes 
        Environmental Research Laboratory of the National Oceanic

[[Page 110 STAT. 4091]]

        and Atmospheric Administration, of which $500,000 shall be made 
        available for grants, to be competitively awarded and subject to 
        peer review, for research relating to Lake Champlain;
            ``(4) $5,000,000 for competitive grants for university 
        research on aquatic nuisance species under section 1202(f)(3) as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) $2,800,000, which shall be made available from 
                funds otherwise authorized to be appropriated if such 
                funds are so authorized, to fund grants under section 
                205 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1124);
                    ``(B) $1,200,000 to fund grants to colleges for the 
                benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts referred to 
                in the first section of the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 
                Stat. 417, chapter 841; 7 U.S.C. 322); and
                    ``(C) $1,000,000 to fund grants through the 
                Cooperative Fisheries and Wildlife Research Unit Program 
                of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
            ``(5) $3,000,000 to the Department of the Army, to be used 
        by the Assistant Secretary to carry out section 1202(i)(1)(B); 
        and
            ``(6) $300,000 to the Department of the Interior, to be used 
        by the Director to fund regional panels and similar entities 
        under section 1203, of which $100,000 shall be used to fund 
        activities of the Great Lakes Commission.'';
            (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:

    ``(c) Grants for State Management Programs.--There are authorized to 
be appropriated for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2002 $4,000,000 to 
the Department of the Interior, to be used by the Director for making 
grants under section 1204, of which $1,500,000 shall be used by the 
Director, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary, for management 
of aquatic nuisance vegetation species.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:

    ``(e) Ballast Water Management Demonstration 
Program.--There are authorized to be appropriated $2,500,000 to carry 
out section 1104.
    ``(f) Research.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Director $1,000,000 to carry out research on the prevention, monitoring, 
and control of aquatic nuisance species in Narragansett Bay, Rhode 
Island. The funds shall be made available for use by the Department of 
Environmental Management of the State of Rhode Island.''.
    (g) References to Appropriate Committees.--The Act (16 U.S.C. 4701 
et seq.) is amended by striking ``appropriate Committees'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``Congress''.
    (h) Technical Corrections.--Public Law 101-646 (16 U.S.C. 4701 et 
seq.) is amended--
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 4701, 941; 33 USC 2761.>>     (1) in titles I, 
        II, and IV, by striking the quotation marks at the beginning of 
        any title, subtitle, section, subsection, 
        paragraph, subparagraph, clause, subclause, or undesignated 
        provision;
            (2) at the end of titles II and IV, by striking the closing 
        quotation marks and the final period; and
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 4702.>>     (3) in section 1003--
                    (A) by striking each single opening quotation mark 
                and inserting double opening quotation marks; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4092]]

                    (B) by striking each single closing quotation mark 
                and inserting double closing quotations marks.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 4701 note.>> SEC. 3. STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act is intended 
to affect the authorities and responsibilities of the Great Lakes 
Fishery Commission established under article II of the Convention on 
Great Lakes Fisheries between the United States of America and Canada, 
signed at Washington on September 10, 1954 (hereafter in this section 
referred to as the ``Convention''), including the authorities and 
responsibilities of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission--
            (1) for developing and implementing a comprehensive 
        program for eradicating or minimizing populations of sea 
        lamprey in the Great Lakes watershed; and
            (2) carrying out the duties of the Commission specified in 
        the Convention (including any amendment thereto) and the Great 
        Lakes Fishery Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 931 et seq.).

    Approved October 26, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4283:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Sept. 28, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 3, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Oct. 26, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>