[104th Congress Public Law 286]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ286.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3387]]

Public Law 104-286
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the Central Utah Project Completion Act to direct the Secretary 
 of the Interior to allow for prepayment of repayment contracts between 
the United States and the Central Utah Water Conservancy District dated 
        December 28, 1965, and November 26, 1985, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 11, 1996 -  [H.R. 1823]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PREPAYMENT OF CERTAIN REPAYMENT CONTRACTS BETWEEN THE UNITED 
            STATES AND THE CENTRAL UTAH WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT.

    Section 210 of the Central Utah Project Completion Act (106 Stat. 
4624) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting the 
following: ``The Secretary shall allow for prepayment of the repayment 
contract between the United States and the Central Utah Water 
Conservancy District dated December 28, 1965, and supplemented on 
November 26, 1985, providing for repayment of municipal and industrial 
water delivery facilities for which repayment is provided pursuant to 
such contract, under terms and conditions similar to those contained in 
the supplemental contract that provided for the prepayment of the Jordan 
Aqueduct dated October 28, 1993. The prepayment may be provided in 
several installments to reflect substantial completion of the delivery 
facilities being prepaid and may not be adjusted on the basis of the 
type of prepayment financing utilized by the District. The District 
shall exercise its right to prepayment pursuant to this section by the 
end of fiscal year 2002. Nothing in this section authorizes or 
terminates the authority to use tax exempt bond financing for this 
prepayment.''.

    Approved October 11, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1823:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-531 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-300 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Apr. 30, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 28, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>