[104th Congress Public Law 23]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ23.104]

Public Law 104-23
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Corning National 
 Fish Hatchery to the State of Arkansas. <<NOTE: Sept. 6, 1995 -  [H.R. 
                                 535]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America <<NOTE: Corning National Fish Hatchery 
Conveyance Act.>>  in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Corning National Fish Hatchery 
Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF CORNING NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY TO THE STATE OF 
            ARKANSAS.

    (a) Conveyance Requirement.--Within 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the 
State of Arkansas without reimbursement all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the property described in subsection (b), 
for use by the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission as part of the State of 
Arkansas fish culture program.
    (b) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is the property known as the Corning National Fish Hatchery (popularly 
known as the William H. Donham State Fish Hatchery), located one mile 
west of Corning, Arkansas, on Arkansas State Highway 67 in Clay County, 
Arkansas, consisting of 137.34 acres (more or less), and all 
improvements and related personal property under the control of the 
Secretary that is located on that property, including buildings, 
structures, and equipment.
    (c) Use and Reversionary Interest.--The property conveyed to the 
State of Arkansas pursuant to this section shall be used by the State 
for purposes of fishery resources management, and if it is used for any 
other purpose all right, title, and interest in and to all property 
conveyed pursuant to this section shall revert to the United States. The 
State of Arkansas shall ensure that the property reverting to the United 
States is in substantially the same or better condition as at the time 
of transfer.

    Approved September 6, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 535:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-34 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            June 7, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>