[104th Congress Public Law 246]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ246.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3146]]

Public Law 104-246
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the extension of a hydroelectric project located in the 
     State of West Virginia. <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 1996 -  [H.R. 1335]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the time period specified in 
section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that would otherwise 
apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Project No. 7307, the 
Commission shall, upon the request of the licensee for the project, in 
accordance with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest 
requirements of that section and the Commission's procedures under that 
section, extend the time period during which the licensee is required to 
commence construction of the project so as to terminate on September 26, 
1999.
    (b) <<NOTE: Effectiuve date.>>  Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall 
take effect for the project described in subsection (a) upon the 
expiration of the extension, issued by the Commission under section 13 
of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806), of the period required for 
commencement of construction of the project.

    (c) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If a license for the project 
described in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commission shall reinstate the license effective as of 
the date of its expiration and extend the time required for commencement 
of construction of the project until September 26, 1999.

    Approved October 9, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1335 (S. 595):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-321 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-108 accompanying S. 595 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 141 (1995):
                                    Nov. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 142 (1996):
                                    Sept. 27, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>