[104th Congress Public Law 259]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ259.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3173]]

Public Law 104-259
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To extend the authorization of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation 
      Control Act of 1978, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 
                         1996 -  [H.R. 2967]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REFERENCE.

    Whenever in this Act (other than in section 3) an amendment or 
repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section 
or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation 
Control Act of 1978.

SEC. 2. TERMINATION; AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 112(a) (42 U.S.C. 7922(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) The authority of the Secretary to perform remedial action 
under this title shall terminate on September 30, 1998, except that--
            ``(A) the authority of the Secretary to perform groundwater 
        restoration activities under this title is without limitation, 
        and
            ``(B) the Secretary may continue operation of the disposal 
        site in Mesa County, Colorado (known as the Cheney disposal 
        cell) for receiving and disposing of residual radioactive 
        material from processing sites and of byproduct material from 
        property in the vicinity of the uranium milling site located in 
        Monticello, Utah, until the Cheney disposal cell has been filled 
        to the capacity for which it was designed, or September 30, 
        2023, whichever comes first.

    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `byproduct material' 
has the meaning given that term in section 11e.(2) of the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)(2)).''.

SEC. 3. REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE PROCESSING SITES.

    (a) Section 1001.--Section 1001 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 
U.S.C. 2296a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking ``$5.50'' and 
        inserting ``$6.25'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking ``$270,000,000'' 
        and inserting ``$350,000,000'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by striking ``$40,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$65,000,000'';

[[Page 110 STAT. 3174]]

            (4) in subsection (b)(2)(E)(i), by striking ``$5.50'' and 
        inserting ``$6.25''; and
            (5) in subsection (b)(2)(E)(ii), by striking ``$5.50'' and 
        inserting ``$6.25''.

    (b) Section 1003.--Section 1003 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
2296a-2) is amended by striking ``$310,000,000'' and inserting 
``$415,000,000''.

SEC. 4. REMEDIAL ACTION FOR THE DISPOSAL OF RADIOACTIVE 
            MATERIALS.

    (a) Section 104.--Section 104(d) (42 U.S.C. 4914(d)) <<NOTE: 42 USC 
7914.>>  is amended by adding at the end the following: ``For purposes 
of this subsection, the term `site' does not include any property 
described in section 101(6)(B) which is in a State which the Secretary 
has certified has a program which would achieve the purposes of this 
subsection.''.

    (b) Section 108.--Section 108(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 7918(a)(1)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``Residual radioactive 
material from a processing site designated under this title may be 
disposed of at a facility licensed under title II under the 
administrative and technical requirements of such title. Disposal of 
such material at such a site in accordance with such requirements shall 
be considered to have been done in accordance with the administrative 
and technical requirements of this title.''.
    (c) Section 115.--Section 115(a) (42 U.S.C. 7925(a)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``This subsection does not prohibit the 
disposal of residual radioactive material from a processing site under 
this title at a site licensed under title II or the expenditure of funds 
under this title for such disposal.''.

    Approved October 9, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2967:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-536 (Comm. on Commerce).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-301 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            May 14, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 28, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>