[104th Congress Public Law 265]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ265.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3288]]

Public Law 104-265
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 1996 -  [H.R. 3546]>> To direct the Secretary of the 
 Interior to convey the Walhalla National Fish Hatchery to the State of 
                 South Carolina, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Walhalla 
National Fish Hatchery Conveyance Act.>> 

                TITLE I--WALHALLA NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Walhalla National Fish Hatchery 
Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 102. CONVEYANCE OF WALHALLA NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY TO THE STATE OF 
            SOUTH CAROLINA.

<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (a) Conveyance Requirement.--Within 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall convey to the State of South Carolina without 
reimbursement all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to the property described in subsection (b), for use by the South 
Carolina Department of Natural Resources as part of the State of South 
Carolina fish culture program.

    (b) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is the property known as the Walhalla National Fish Hatchery, located on 
Indian Camp Creek and the East Fork of Chattooga River off of State 
Secondary Highway 325 in northern Oconee County, South Carolina, 
consisting of 76.2 acres (more or less), all improvements and related 
personal property under the control of the Secretary that is located on 
that property, including buildings, structures, and equipment, and all 
easements, leases, and water rights relating to that property.
    (c) Reversionary Interest.--If any of the property conveyed to the 
State of South Carolina under this section is used for any purpose other 
than the use authorized under subsection (a), all right, title, and 
interest in and to all property conveyed under this section shall revert 
to the United States. The State of South Carolina shall ensure that all 
property reverting to the United States under this subsection is in 
substantially the same or better condition as at the time of transfer to 
the State.

[[Page 110 STAT. 3289]]

          TITLE II--CORRECTION OF COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES MAP

SEC. 201. CORRECTIONS OF MAP.

<<NOTE: Effective date. 16 USC 3503 note.>>     (a) In General.--Not 
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall make such corrections to the set of maps 
described in subsection (b) as are necessary to move the southern-most 
boundary of Unit SC-01 of the Coastal Barrier Resources System (known as 
the ``Long Pond Unit'') to exclude from the Unit the structures known as 
``Lands End'', ``Beachwalk'', and ``Courtyard Villas'', including the 
land lying between the structures. The corrected southern boundary shall 
extend in a straight line, at the break in development, between the 
coast and the north boundary of the unit.

    (b) Maps.--The set of maps described in this subsection is the set 
of maps entitled ``Coastal Barrier Resources System'' dated October 24, 
1990, insofar as the maps relate to Unit SC-01 of the Coastal Barrier 
Resources System.

    Approved October 9, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3546:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-701 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            July 30, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 24, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 27, House concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>