[104th Congress Public Law 37]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ37.104]


[[Page 109 STAT. 299]]

Public Law 104-37
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 1996, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 21, 
                         1995 -  [H.R. 1976]>> 

  
    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Agriculture, Rural 
Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1996.>> assembled, That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other purposes, namely:

                                 TITLE I

                          AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing, and Marketing

                         Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of 
Agriculture, and not to exceed $75,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $10,227,000, of which $7,500,000 to remain available until 
expended, shall be available for InfoShare: Provided, That not to exceed 
$11,000 of this amount, along with any unobligated balances of 
representation funds in the Foreign Agricultural Service shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, not 
otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary.

                          Executive Operations

                             chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Chief Economist, including economic 
analysis, risk assessment, cost benefit analysis, and the functions of 
the World Agricultural Outlook Board, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1622g), and including employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of the section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $5,000 is for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $3,948,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 300]]

                        national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, including 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,846,000.

                  office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program Analysis, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$5,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $5,899,000.

                         Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $4,133,000: Provided, 
That the Chief Financial Officer shall reinstate and market cross-
servicing activities of the National Finance Center: Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act shall be used to obtain, modify, re-engineer, license, operate, 
implement, or expand commercial off-the-shelf financial management 
software systems or existing commercial off-the-shelf system financial 
management contracts, beyond general ledger systems and accounting 
support software, at the National Finance Center until thirty 
legislative days after the Secretary of Agriculture submits to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a complete and thorough cost-
benefit analysis and a certification by the Secretary of Agriculture 
that this analysis provides a detailed and accurate cost-benefit 
analysis comparison between obtaining or expanding commercial off-the-
shelf software systems and conducting identical or comparable software 
systems acquisitions, re-engineering, or modifications in-house.

          Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration to carry out the programs funded in this 
Act, $596,000.

        Agriculture Buildings and Facilities and Rental Payments

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 486,  for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, $110,187,000, of which 
$20,216,000 shall be retained by the Department for the operation, 
maintenance, and repair of Agriculture buildings: Provided, That in the 
event an agency within the Department should require modification of 
space needs, the Secretary

[[Page 109 STAT. 301]]

of Agriculture may transfer a share of that agency's appropriation made 
available by this Act to this appropriation, or may transfer a share of 
this appropriation to that agency's appropriation, but such transfers 
shall not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for space rental 
and related costs to or from this account. In addition, for 
construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities as necessary to carry out the programs 
of the Department, where not otherwise provided, $25,587,000, to remain 
available until expended; making a total appropriation of $135,774,000.

                       Advisory Committees (USDA)

    For necessary expenses for activities of advisory committees of the 
Department of Agriculture which are included in this Act, $650,000: 
Provided, That no other funds appropriated to the Department in this Act 
shall be available to the Department for support of activities of 
advisory committees.

                       Hazardous Waste Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 
U.S.C. 9607(g), and  section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6961, $15,700,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Waste Management may be 
transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in meeting all 
requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-Federal 
lands.

                       Departmental Administration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For Personnel, Operations, Information Resources Management, Civil 
Rights Enforcement, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, 
Administrative Law Judges and Judicial Officer, Disaster Management and 
Coordination, and Modernization of the Administrative Process, 
$27,986,000, to provide for necessary expenses for management support 
services to offices of the Department and for general administration and 
disaster management of the Department, repairs and alterations, and 
other miscellaneous supplies and expenses not otherwise provided for and 
necessary for the practical and efficient work of the Department, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 is for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be reimbursed from applicable appropriations in this 
Act for travel expenses incident to the holding of hearings as required 
by 5 U.S.C. 551-558.

[[Page 109 STAT. 302]]

      Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations to carry out the programs funded 
in this Act, including programs involving intergovernmental affairs and 
liaison within the executive branch, $3,797,000: Provided, That no other 
funds appropriated to the Department in this Act shall be available to 
the Department for support of activities of congressional relations: 
Provided further, That not less than $2,355,000 shall be transferred to 
agencies funded in this Act to maintain personnel at the agency level.

                        Office of Communications

    For necessary expenses to carry on services relating to the 
coordination of programs involving public affairs, for the dissemination 
of agricultural information, and the coordination of information, work, 
and programs authorized by Congress in the Department, $8,198,000, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), of which not to exceed 
$10,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, and not 
to exceed $2,000,000 may be used for farmers' bulletins.

                     Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) 
of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, $63,639,000, including such sums as may be 
necessary for contracting and other arrangements with public agencies 
and private persons pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General 
Act of 1978, as amended, including a sum not to exceed $50,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; and including a sum not to exceed 
$95,000 for certain confidential operational expenses including the 
payment of informants, to be expended under the direction of the 
Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and section 1337 of 
Public Law 97-98: Provided, That funds transferred to the Office of the 
Inspector General through forfeiture proceedings or from the Department 
of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund or the Department of the Treasury 
Forfeiture Fund, as a participating agency, as an equitable share from 
the forfeiture of property in investigations in which the Office of 
Inspector General participates, or through the granting of a Petition 
for Remission or Mitigation, shall be deposited to the credit of this 
account for law enforcement activities authorized under the Inspector 
General Act of 1978, as amended, to remain available until expended.

                      Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$27,860,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 303]]

   Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Research, Education and Economics to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Economic Research Service, the National 
Agricultural Statistics Service, the Agricultural Research Service and 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, 
$520,000.

                        Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service in 
conducting economic research and analysis, as authorized by the 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, 
$53,131,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225).

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service in conducting statistical reporting and service work, including 
crop and livestock estimates, statistical coordination and improvements, 
and marketing surveys, as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act 
of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and other laws, $81,107,000: Provided, That 
this appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109.

                      Agricultural Research Service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to enable the Agricultural Research Service 
to perform agricultural research and demonstration relating to 
production, utilization, marketing, and distribution (not otherwise 
provided for); home economics or nutrition and consumer use including 
the acquisition, preservation, and dissemination of agricultural 
information; and for acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100, $710,000,000: Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available for temporary 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $115,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>>  appropriations hereunder shall be available 
for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to 
exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, That 
appropriations <<NOTE: 7 USC 2254.>>  hereunder shall be available 
pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of 
constructing any one building shall not exceed $250,000, except for 
headhouses or greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,000,000, and 
except for ten buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to 
exceed $500,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during 
the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or

[[Page 109 STAT. 304]]

$250,000, whichever is greater: Provided further, That the limitations 
on alterations contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or 
replacement of existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided 
further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement 
of buildings needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 
113a): Provided further, That the foregoing limitations shall not apply 
to the purchase of land at Beckley, West Virginia: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $190,000 of this appropriation may be transferred to 
and merged with the appropriation for the Office of the Under Secretary 
for Research, Education and Economics for the scientific review of 
international issues involving agricultural chemicals and food 
additives: Provided further, That funds may be received from any State, 
other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose 
of establishing or operating any research facility or research project 
of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law: Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Public lands. Louisiana. American Sugar Cane 
League Foundation.>>  all rights and title of the United States in the 
property known as USDA Houma Sugar Cane Research Laboratory, consisting 
of approximately 20 acres in the City of Houma and 150 acres of farmland 
in Chacahula, Louisiana, including facilities and equipment, shall be 
conveyed to the American Sugar Cane League Foundation: Provided further, 
That <<NOTE: Public lands. California.>>  all rights and title of the 
United States in the Agricultural Research Station at Brawley, 
California, consisting of 80 acres of land, including facilities and 
equipment, shall be conveyed to Imperial County, California: Provided 
further, That <<NOTE: Public lands. Texas. Texas A&M University.>>  all 
rights and title of the United States in the Pecan Genetics and 
Improvement Research Laboratory, consisting of 84.2 acres of land, 
including facilities and equipment, shall be conveyed to Texas A&M 
University: <<NOTE: Public lands. Tennessee. University of Tennessee.>>  
Provided further, That the property originally conveyed by the State of 
Tennessee to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research 
Service, in Lewisburg, Tennessee be conveyed to the University of 
Tennessee.

    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $30,200,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That funds 
may be received from any State, other political subdivision, 
organization, or individual for the purpose of establishing any research 
facility of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by law.

      Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service

                    research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
including $168,734,000 to carry into effect the provisions of the Hatch 
Act (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i); $20,497,000 for grants for

[[Page 109 STAT. 305]]

cooperative forestry research (16 U.S.C. 582a-582-a7); $27,735,000 for 
payments to the 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University 
(7 U.S.C. 3222); $49,846,000 for special grants for agricultural 
research (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); $9,769,000 for special grants for 
agricultural research on improved pest control (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)); 
$96,735,000 for competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)); 
$5,051,000 for the support of animal health and disease programs (7 
U.S.C. 3195); $650,000 for supplemental and alternative crops and 
products (7 U.S.C. 3319d); $500,000 for grants for research pursuant to 
the Critical Agricultural Materials Act of 1984 (7 U.S.C. 178) and 
section 1472 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, as amended (7 
U.S.C. 3318), to remain available until expended; $475,000 for rangeland 
research grants (7 U.S.C. 3331-3336); $3,500,000 for higher education 
graduate fellowships grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6)), to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,350,000 for higher education 
challenge grants (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)); $1,000,000 for a higher 
education minority scholars program (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(5)), to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); $4,000,000 for aquaculture 
grants (7 U.S.C. 3322); $8,100,000 for sustainable agriculture research 
and education (7 U.S.C. 5811); $9,200,000 for a program of capacity 
building grants to colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee 
University, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b); 
$1,450,000 for payments to the 1994 Institutions pursuant to section 
534(a)(1) of Public Law 103-382; and $10,337,000 for necessary expenses 
of Research and Education Activities, of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; in all, $421,929,000.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
carry out research related to the production, processing or marketing of 
tobacco or tobacco products.

               native american institutions endowment fund

    For establishment of a Native American institutions endowment fund, 
as authorized by Public Law 130-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $4,600,000.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities and 
for grants to States and other eligible recipients for such purposes, as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research, extension, and 
teaching programs of the Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise 
provided, $57,838,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b).

                          extension activities

    Payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa: For 
payments for cooperative extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, as 
amended, to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) of said Act, and 
under section 208(c) of Public Law 93-471, for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents and for costs of penalty mail 
for coopera

[[Page 109 STAT. 306]]

tive extension agents and State extension directors, $268,493,000; 
payments for the nutrition and family education program for low-income 
areas under section 3(d) of the Act, $60,510,000; payments for the pest 
management program under section 3(d) of the Act, $10,783,000; payments 
for the farm safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,943,000; 
payments for the pesticide impact assessment program under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $3,313,000; payments to upgrade 1890 land-grant college 
research, extension, and teaching facilities as authorized by section 
1447 of Public Law 95-113, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3222b), $7,782,000, to 
remain available until expended; payments for the rural development 
centers under section 3(d) of the Act, $936,000; payments for a 
groundwater quality program under section 3(d) of the Act, $11,065,000; 
payments for the agricultural telecommunications program, as authorized 
by Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 5926), $1,203,000; payments for youth-
at-risk programs under section 3(d) of the Act, $9,850,000; payments for 
a food safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, $2,438,000; 
payments for carrying out the provisions of the Renewable Resources 
Extension Act of 1978, $3,291,000; payments for Indian reservation 
agents under section 3(d) of the Act, $1,724,000; payments for 
sustainable agriculture programs under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$3,411,000; payments for rural health and safety education as authorized 
by section 2390 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 2662), 
$2,709,000; payments for cooperative extension work by the colleges 
receiving the benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 321-326, 328) 
and Tuskegee University, $25,090,000; and for Federal administration and 
coordination including administration of the Smith-Lever Act, as 
amended, and the Act of September 29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341-349), as 
amended, and section 1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 301 
note), and to coordinate and provide program leadership for the 
extension work of the Department and the several States and insular 
possessions, $12,209,000; in all, $427,750,000: Provided, That funds 
hereby appropriated pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act of June 26, 
1953, and section 506 of the Act of June 23, 1972, as amended, shall not 
be paid to any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, or 
the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American Samoa 
prior to availability of an equal sum from non-Federal sources for 
expenditure during the current fiscal year.

 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Agricultural Marketing Service, and the Grain 
Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, $605,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                          salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, including those pursuant 
to the Act of February 28, 1947, as amended (21 U.S.C. 114b-

[[Page 109 STAT. 307]]

c), necessary to prevent, control, and eradicate pests and plant and 
animal diseases; to carry out inspection, quarantine, and regulatory 
activities; to discharge the authorities of the Secretary of Agriculture 
under the Act of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426-426b); and 
to protect the environment, as authorized by law, $331,667,000, of which 
$4,799,000 shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, 
plant diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and 
birds to the extent necessary to meet emergency conditions: Provided, 
That in fiscal year 1996, amounts in the agricultural quarantine 
inspection user fee account shall be available for authorized purposes 
without further appropriation: Provided further, That no funds shall be 
used to formulate or administer a brucellosis eradication program for 
the current fiscal year that does not require minimum matching by the 
States of at least 40 percent: Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall be available for field employment pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $40,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for the 
operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
four, of which two shall be for replacement only: Provided further, 
That, in addition, <<NOTE: 21 USC 129.>> in emergencies which threaten 
any segment of the agricultural production industry of this country, the 
Secretary may transfer from other appropriations or funds available to 
the agencies or corporations of the Department such sums as he may deem 
necessary, to be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and 
eradication of contagious or infectious diseases or pests of animals, 
poultry, or plants, and for expenses in accordance with the Act of 
February 28, 1947, as amended, and section 102 of the Act of September 
21, 1944, as amended, and any unexpended balances of funds transferred 
for such emergency purposes in the next preceding fiscal year shall be 
merged with such transferred amounts: Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering any one 
building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building: Provided further, That of the 
funds provided, the Secretary of Agriculture may provide for the funding 
of all fees or charges under section 2509 of Public Law 101-624, 
codified at 21 U.S.C. 136a(c), for any service related to the cost of 
providing import, entry, diagnostic and quarantine services in 
connection with the 1996 Summer Olympic Games to be held in Atlanta, 
Georgia.

    In fiscal year 1996 the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic and 
international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, or 
services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall be 
credited to this account, to remain available until expended, without 
further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

[[Page 109 STAT. 308]]

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $8,757,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses to carry on services related to consumer 
protection, agricultural marketing and distribution, transportation, and 
regulatory programs, as authorized by law, and for administration and 
coordination of payments to States; including field employment pursuant 
to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $90,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $46,517,000, 
including funds for the wholesale market development program for the 
design and development of wholesale and farmer market facilities for the 
major metropolitan areas of the country: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, as 
established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $58,461,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Appropriations Committees.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c) shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $10,451,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended, and the 
Agricultural Act of 1961.
    In fiscal year 1996, no more than $23,900,000 in section 32 funds 
shall be used to promote sunflower and cottonseed oil exports as 
authorized by section 1541 of Public Law 101-624 (7 U.S.C. 1464 note), 
and such funds shall be used to facilitate additional sales of such oils 
in world markets.

[[Page 109 STAT. 309]]

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000.

         Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the United 
States Grain Standards Act, as amended, for the administration of the 
Packers and Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures used to protect 
purchasers of farm products, and the standardization activities related 
to grain under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended, 
including field employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment under 
5 U.S.C. 3109, $23,058,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

                    inspection and weighing services

         limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $42,784,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional supervision 
and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this limitation 
may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Appropriations Committees.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food Safety to administer the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, $440,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry on services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, as amended, the Poultry Products Inspection 
Act, as amended, and the Egg Products Inspection Act, as amended, 
$544,906,000, and in addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this 
account from fees collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
authorized by section 1017 of Public Law 102-237: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for shell egg surveillance under 
section 5(d) of the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for field 
employment pursuant to section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 
U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $75,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of 
altering any one build

[[Page 109 STAT. 310]]

ing during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.

Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services to administer the 
laws enacted by Congress for the Consolidated Farm Service Agency, 
Foreign Agricultural Service, and the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
$549,000.

                    Consolidated Farm Service Agency

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs administered by the Consolidated Farm Service 
Agency, $795,000,000: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use 
the services, facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments for all programs 
administered by the Agency: Provided further, That other funds made 
available to the Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and 
merged with this account: Provided further, That these funds shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit Act 
of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $2,000,000.

                         dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers for milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers of 
dairy products who have been directed to remove their milk or dairy 
products from commercial markets because it contained residues of 
chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government, and 
in making indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk 
from commercial markets because of (1) the presence of products of 
nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the 
fault of the farmer, or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances 
not included under the first sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances were not 
used in a manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling 
instructions provided at the time of use and the contamination is not 
due to the fault of the farmer, $100,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none of the funds contained in 
this Act shall be used to make indemnity payments to any farmer whose 
milk was removed from commercial markets as a result of his willful 
failure to follow procedures prescribed by the Federal Government: 
Provided further,

[[Page 109 STAT. 311]]

That this amount shall be transferred to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation: Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized to 
utilize the services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation for the purpose of making dairy indemnity 
disbursements.

               outreach for socially disadvantaged farmers

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 2501 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended.

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928-1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as follows: farm 
ownership loans, $610,000,000, of which $550,000,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, $2,450,000,000, of which 
$1,700,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$200,000,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $750,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $100,000,000 to meet the needs resulting from 
natural disasters.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership loans, $34,053,000, of which 
$20,019,000 shall be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$111,505,000, of which $18,360,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed 
loans and $17,960,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian 
tribe land acquisition loans as authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $206,000; 
for emergency insured loans, $32,080,000 to meet the needs resulting 
from natural disasters.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $221,541,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the following accounts in the following 
amounts: $208,446,000 to ``Salaries and Expenses''; $318,000 to ``Rural 
Utilities Service, Salaries and Expenses''; and $171,000 to ``Rural 
Housing and Community Development Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, and 
to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
programs set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for such 
corporation or agency, except as hereinafter provided.

[[Page 109 STAT. 312]]

                 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act, as amended, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                    Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                  reimbursement for net realized losses

    For fiscal year 1996, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the 
Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not 
previously reimbursed (estimated to be $10,400,000,000 in the 
President's fiscal year 1996 Budget Request (H. Doc. 104-4)), but not to 
exceed $10,400,000,000, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 
1961, as amended (15 U.S.C. 713a-11).

        operations and maintenance for hazardous waste management

    For fiscal year 1996, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
expend more than $5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9607(g), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 
42 U.S.C. 6961: Provided, That expenses shall be for operations and 
maintenance costs only and that other hazardous waste management costs 
shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous Waste Management appropriation 
in this Act.

                                TITLE II

                          CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

                    Office of the Under Secretary for

                    Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment to administer the laws 
enacted by the Congress for the Forest Service and the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, $677,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                         conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-590f) including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation,

[[Page 109 STAT. 313]]

exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100 pursuant to 
the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or 
alteration or improvement of permanent and temporary buildings; and 
operation and maintenance of aircraft, $629,986,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of which not less than $5,852,000 is 
for snow survey and water forecasting and not less than $8,875,000 is 
for operation and establishment of the plant materials centers: 
Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 
U.S.C. 2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance and related expenses to carry out programs 
authorized by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado River Basin 
Salinity Control Act of 1974, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided 
further, That no part of this appropriation may be expended for soil and 
water conservation operations under the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 
590a-590f) in demonstration projects: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) 
and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That qualified local engineers may be 
temporarily employed at per diem rates to perform the technical planning 
work of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e-2).

                watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to research, engineering operations, methods of 
cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation of existing works 
and changes in use of land,  in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, as amended (16 U.S.C. 
1001-1005, 1007-1009), the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 
U.S.C. 590a-f), and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $100,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b) (of which $15,000,000 shall be available 
for the watersheds authorized under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701, 16 U.S.C. 1006a), as amended and supplemented): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $200,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 of this appropriation is available to carry out the purposes 
of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-205), as amended, 
including cooperative efforts as contemplated by that Act to relocate 
endangered or threatened species to other suitable habitats as may be 
necessary to expedite project construction.

[[Page 109 STAT. 314]]

                  resource conservation and development

    For necessary expenses in planning and carrying out projects for 
resource conservation and development and for sound land use pursuant to 
the provisions of section 32(e) of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; 76 Stat. 607), and the 
provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), and the 
provisions of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451-
3461), $29,000,000, to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209): 
Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 
1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                       forestry incentives program

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to carry out the 
program of forestry incentives, as authorized in the Cooperative 
Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101), including technical 
assistance and related expenses, $6,325,000, to remain available until 
expended, as authorized by that Act.

              colorado river basin salinity control program

    For necessary expenses for carrying out a voluntary cooperative 
salinity control program pursuant to section 202(c) of title II of the 
Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
1592(c)), to be used to reduce salinity in the Colorado River and to 
enhance the supply and quality of water available for use in the United 
States and the Republic of Mexico, $2,681,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), to be used for the establishment of on-farm 
irrigation management systems, including lateral improvement measures, 
for making cost-share payments to agricultural landowners and operators, 
Indian tribes, irrigation districts and associations, local governmental 
and nongovernmental entities, and other landowners to aid them in 
carrying out approved conservation practices as determined and 
recommended by the Secretary, and for associated costs of program 
planning, information and education, and program monitoring and 
evaluation.

                     watershed surveys and planning

    For necessary expenses to conduct research, investigation, and 
surveys of watersheds of rivers and other waterways, and for small 
watershed investigations and planning, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act approved August 4, 1954, as amended 
(16 U.S.C. 1001-1009), $14,000,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $110,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 109 STAT. 315]]

                        wetlands reserve program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the wetlands reserve program 
pursuant to subchapter C of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837), $77,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary is authorized to use the 
services, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for the purpose of carrying out the wetlands reserve 
program.

                    Consolidated Farm Service Agency

                    agricultural conservation program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the program authorized 
in sections 7 to 15, 16(a), 16(f), and 17 of the Soil Conservation and 
Domestic Allotment Act approved February 29, 1936, as amended and 
supplemented (16 U.S.C. 590g-590o, 590p(a), 590p(f), and 590q), and 
sections 1001-1004, 1006-1008, and 1010 of the Agricultural Act of 1970, 
as added by the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1501-1504, 1506-1508, and 1510), and including not to exceed 
$15,000 for the preparation and display of exhibits, including such 
displays at State, interstate, and international fairs within the United 
States, $75,000,000, to remain available until expended (16 U.S.C. 
590o), for agreements, excluding administration but including technical 
assistance and related expenses (16 U.S.C. 590o), except that no 
participant in the agricultural conservation program shall receive more 
than $3,500 per year, except where the participants from two or more 
farms or ranches join to carry out approved practices designed to 
conserve or improve the agricultural resources of the community, or 
where a participant has a long-term agreement, in which case the total 
payment shall not exceed the annual payment limitation multiplied by the 
number of years of the agreement: Provided, That no portion of the funds 
for the current year's program may be utilized to provide financial or 
technical assistance for drainage on wetlands now designated as Wetlands 
Types 3 (III) through 20 (XX) in United States Department of the 
Interior, Fish and Wildlife Circular 39, Wetlands of the United States, 
1956: Provided further, That such amounts shall be available for the 
purchase of seeds, fertilizers, lime, trees, or any other conservation 
materials, or any soil-terracing services, and making grants thereof to 
agricultural producers to aid them in carrying out approved farming 
practices as authorized by the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act, as amended, as determined and recommended by the county committees, 
approved by the State committees and the Secretary, under programs 
provided for herein: Provided further, That such assistance will not be 
used for carrying out measures and practices that are primarily 
production-oriented or that have little or no conservation or pollution 
abatement benefits: Provided further, That not to exceed 5 percent of 
the allocation for the current year's program for any county may, on the 
recommendation of such county committee and approval of the State 
committee, be withheld and allotted to the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service for services

[[Page 109 STAT. 316]]

of its technicians in formulating and carrying out the agricultural 
conservation program in the participating counties, and shall not be 
utilized by the Natural Resources Conservation Service for any purpose 
other than technical and other assistance in such counties, and in 
addition, on the recommendation of such county committee and approval of 
the State committee, not to exceed 1 percent may be made available to 
any other Federal, State, or local public agency for the same purpose 
and under the same conditions: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$11,000,000 of the amount appropriated shall be used for water quality 
payments and practices in the same manner as permitted under the program 
for water quality authorized in chapter 2 of subtitle D of title XII of 
the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3838 et seq.).

                      conservation reserve program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the conservation reserve program 
pursuant to the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3845), 
$1,781,785,000, to remain available until expended, to be used for 
Commodity Credit Corporation expenditures for cost-share assistance for 
the establishment of conservation practices provided for in approved 
conservation reserve program contracts, for annual rental payments 
provided in such contracts, and for technical assistance.

                                TITLE III

            RURAL ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

     Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Economic and Community 
                               Development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Rural Economic and Community Development to administer 
programs under the laws enacted by the Congress for the Rural Housing 
and Community Development Service, Rural Business and Cooperative 
Development Service, and the Rural Utilities Service of the Department 
of Agriculture, $568,000.

             Rural Housing and Community Development Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing and Community 
Development Service, including administering the programs authorized by 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, title V of 
the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, and cooperative agreements, 
$46,583,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence of 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944, and not to exceed $500,000 may be used for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109.

[[Page 109 STAT. 317]]

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, 
as follows: $2,700,000,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, as 
determined by the Secretary, of which $1,700,000,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $35,000,000 for section 504 housing 
repair loans; $15,000,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$150,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; $600,000 for site loans: 
Provided, That notwithstanding section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949, 
the Secretary of Agriculture may make loans under section 502 of such 
Act for properties in the Pine View West Subdivision, located in 
Gibsonville, North Carolina, in the same manner as provided under such 
section for properties in rural areas.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $148,723,000, of which 
$2,890,000 shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 504 
housing repair loans, $14,193,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$8,629,000; section 515 rental housing, $82,035,000: Provided, That no 
funds for new construction may be available for fiscal year 1996 until 
the program is authorized.
    In addition, for the cost (as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974) of guaranteed loans under a 
demonstration program of loan guarantees for multifamily rental housing 
in rural areas, $1,000,000, to be derived from the amount made available 
under this heading for the cost of low-income section 515 loans and to 
become available for obligation only upon the enactment of authorizing 
legislation.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $385,889,000, of which $372,897,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Housing and Community Development Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                        rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant to 
the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in lieu 
of forgiveness or payments for eligible households as authorized by 
section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 
$540,900,000; and in addition such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this amount not 
more than $5,900,000 shall be available for debt forgiveness or payments 
for eligible households as authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the 
Act, and not to exceed $10,000 per project for advances to nonprofit 
organizations or public agencies to cover direct costs (other than 
purchase price) incurred in purchasing projects pursuant to section 
502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That agreements entered into 
or renewed during fiscal year 1996 shall be funded for a five-year 
period, although

[[Page 109 STAT. 318]]

the life of any such agreement may be extended to fully utilize amounts 
obligated.

                 self-help housing land development fund

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by section 
523(b)(1)(B) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1490c), 
$603,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans, 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$31,000.

                community facility loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $34,880,000, and for the cost of 
guaranteed loans, $3,555,000, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1928 and 86 
Stat. 661-664, as amended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums shall 
remain available until expended for the disbursement of loans obligated 
in fiscal year 1996: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
to exceed $200,000,000 and total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, not to exceed $75,000,000: Provided further, That of the 
amounts available for the cost of direct loans not to exceed $1,208,000, 
to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount not to exceed 
$6,930,000, shall be available for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 1996, they remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $8,836,000, of which $8,731,000 shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
Expenses''.

                  very low-income housing repair grants

    For grants to the very low-income elderly for essential repairs to 
dwellings pursuant to section 504 of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, $24,900,000, to remain available until expended.

                  rural housing for domestic farm labor

    For financial assistance to eligible nonprofit organizations for 
housing for domestic farm labor, pursuant to section 516 of the Housing 
Act of 1949, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1486), $10,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                   mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $12,650,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

[[Page 109 STAT. 319]]

                 rural community fire protection grants

    For grants pursuant to section 7 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-313), $2,000,000 to fund up to 50 
percent of the cost of organizing, training, and equipping rural 
volunteer fire departments.

                  compensation for construction defects

    For compensation for construction defects as authorized by section 
509(c) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, $495,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                    rural housing preservation grants

    For grants for rural housing preservation as authorized by section 
552 of the Housing and Urban-Rural Recovery Act of 1983 (Public Law 98-
181), $11,000,000.

           Rural Business and Cooperative Development Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Business and Cooperative 
Development Service, including administering the programs authorized by 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended; section 
1323 of the Food Security Act of 1985; the Cooperative Marketing Act of 
1926; for activities relating to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, 
including economic research findings, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946; for activities with institutions concerning the 
development and operation of agricultural cooperatives; and cooperative 
agreements; $9,013,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 706(a) of 
the Organic Act of 1944, and not to exceed $250,000 may be used for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

            rural business and industry loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $6,437,000, as authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 1928 and 86 Stat. 661-664, as amended: Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, 
That such sums shall remain available until expended for the 
disbursement of loans obligated in fiscal year 1996: Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of guaranteed loans of $500,000,000: Provided further, 
That of the amounts available for the cost of guaranteed loans including 
the cost of modifying loans, $148,000, to subsidize gross obligations 
for the loan principal, any part of which is guaranteed, not to exceed 
$10,842,000, shall be available for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities, as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That 
if such funds are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 1996, they remain available for other authorized 
activities under this head.

[[Page 109 STAT. 320]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct and 
guaranteed loan programs, $14,868,000, of which $14,747,000 shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
Expenses''.

               rural development loan fund program account

     For the cost of direct loans, $22,395,000, as authorized by the 
Rural Development Loan Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to subsidize gross obligations 
for the principal amount of direct loans of $37,544,000: Provided 
further, That through June 30, 1996, of these amounts, $4,322,000 shall 
be available for the cost of direct loans, for empowerment zones and 
enterprise communities, as authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus 
Budget Reconcilation Act of 1993, to subsidize gross obligations for the 
principal amount of direct loans, $7,246,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan programs, $1,476,000, of which $1,470,000 shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$12,865,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,729,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $654,000, which shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Salaries and Expenses''.

 alternative agricultural research and commercialization revolving fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5901-5908), 
$6,500,000 is appropriated to the alternative agricultural research and 
commercialization revolving fund.

                    rural business enterprise grants

    For grants authorized under section 310B(c) and 310B(j) (7 U.S.C. 
1932) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to any 
qualified public or private nonprofit organization, $45,000,000, of 
which $8,381,000 shall be available through June 30, 1996, for 
assistance to empowerment zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1993, after which any funds not obligated shall remain available for 
other authorized purposes under this head: Provided, That $500,000 shall 
be available for grants to qualified nonprofit organizations to provide 
technical assistance

[[Page 109 STAT. 321]]

and training for rural communities needing improved passenger 
transportation systems or facilities in order to promote economic 
development.

           rural technology and cooperative development grants

    For grants pursuant to section 310(f) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1932), $2,300,000, of which 
up to $1,300,000 may be available for the appropriate technology 
transfer for rural areas program.

                         Rural Utilities Service

        rural electrification and telephone loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Insured loans pursuant to the authority of section 305 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 935), shall be made as 
follows: 5 percent rural electrification loans, $90,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telephone loans, $70,000,000; cost of money rural telephone loans, 
$300,000,000; municipal rate rural electric loans, $525,000,000; and 
loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, $420,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 935), as follows: cost of direct loans, $35,126,000; 
cost of municipal rate loans, $56,858,000; cost of money rural telephone 
loans, $60,000; cost of loans guaranteed pursuant to section 306, 
$2,520,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 305(d)(2) of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936, borrower interest rates may exceed 7 
percent per year.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $29,982,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Salaries and 
Expenses''.

                  rural telephone bank program account

    The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without 
regard to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the 
Government Corporation Control Act, as
amended, as may be necessary in carrying out its authorized programs for 
the current fiscal year. During fiscal year 1996 and within the 
resources and authority available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $175,000,000.
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, including the cost of modifying loans, of direct loans 
authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as
amended (7 U.S.C. 935), $5,023,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
loan programs, $3,541,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 322]]

                distance learning and medical link grants

    For necessary expenses to carry into effect the programs authorized 
in sections 2331-2335 of Public Law 101-624, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                   rural utilities assistance program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1926, 1928, and 1932, $487,868,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be available for loans and grants for rural 
water and waste disposal and solid waste management grants: Provided, 
That the costs of direct loans and loan guarantees, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $4,500,000 shall be available for 
contracting with the National Rural Water Association or equally 
qualified national organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems: Provided further, That of 
the total amount appropriated, not to exceed $18,700,000 shall be 
available for water and waste disposal systems to benefit the Colonias 
along the United States/Mexico border, including grants pursuant to 
section 306C: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$18,688,000 shall be for empowerment zones and enterprise communities, 
as authorized by Public Law 103-66: Provided further, That if such funds 
are not obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise communities by 
June 30, 1996, they shall remain available for other authorized purposes 
under this head.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out 
direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants, $12,740,000, of which 
$12,623,000 shall be transferred to and merged with ``Rural Utilities 
Service, Salaries and Expenses''.

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities Service, including 
administering the programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, as amended, and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act, as amended, $18,449,000, of which $7,000 shall be available for 
financial credit reports: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of 706(a) of 
the Organic Act of 1944, and not to exceed $103,000 may be used for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

 Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Food and Consumer Service, 
$440,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 323]]

                        Food and Consumer Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1751-1769b), and the applicable provisions other than section 
21 of the National School Lunch Act and sections 17 and 19 of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1772-1785, and 1789); $7,946,024,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 1997, of which $2,348,166,000 
is hereby appropriated and $5,597,858,000 shall be derived by transfer 
from funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c): Provided, That up to $3,964,000 shall be available for 
independent verification of school food service claims.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                  (wic)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act 
of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $3,729,807,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1997: Provided, That for fiscal year 1996, $20,000,000 
that would otherwise be available to States for nutrition services and 
administration shall be made available for food benefits: Provided 
further, That $4,000,000 from unobligated balances for supervisory and 
technical assistance grants may be transferred to and merged with this 
account: Provided further, That up to $6,750,000 may be used to carry 
out the farmers' market nutrition program from any funds not needed to 
maintain current caseload levels: Provided further, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available to pay administrative expenses of 
WIC clinics except those that have an announced policy of prohibiting 
smoking within the space used to carry out the program: Provided 
further, That once the amount for fiscal year 1995 carryover funds has 
been determined by the Secretary, any funds in excess of $100,000,000 
may be transferred by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Rural 
Utilities Assistance Program and shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this account shall 
be available for the purchase of infant formula except in accordance 
with the cost containment and competitive bidding requirements specified 
in section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).

                           food stamp program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 
2011-2029), $27,597,828,000: Provided, That funds provided herein shall 
remain available through September 30, 1996, in accordance with section 
18(a) of the Food Stamp Act: Provided further, That $500,000,000 of the 
foregoing amount shall be placed in reserve for use only in such amounts 
and at such times as may become necessary to carry out program 
operations: Provided further, That funds provided herein shall be 
expended in accordance with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be subject to any work 
registration or

[[Page 109 STAT. 324]]

workfare requirements as may be required by law: Provided further, That 
$1,143,000,000 of the foregoing amount shall be available for nutrition 
assistance for Puerto Rico as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2028.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the commodity supplemental food 
program as authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c(note)), the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, as amended, and section 110 of the Hunger 
Prevention Act of 1988, $166,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 1997: Provided, That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for commodities 
donated to the program: Provided further, That none of the funds in this 
Act or any other Act may be used for demonstration projects in the 
emergency food assistance program.

               food donations programs for selected groups

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c (note)), section 4(b) 
of the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2013(b)), and section 311 of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $215,000,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 1997: Provided, That <<NOTE: 42 
USC 3030a note.>> hereafter notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
for meals provided pursuant to the Older Americans Act of 1965, a 
maximum rate of reimbursement to States will be established by the 
Secretary, subject to reduction if obligations would exceed the amount 
of available funds, with any unobligated funds to remain available only 
for obligation in the fiscal year beginning October 1, 1996.

                       food program administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the domestic food programs 
funded under this Act, $107,769,000, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
available only for simplifying procedures, reducing overhead costs, 
tightening regulations, improving food stamp coupon handling, and 
assistance in the prevention, identification, and prosecution of fraud 
and other violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation shall be 
available for employment pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109.

                                 TITLE V

                 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including carrying out title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as 
amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768), market development activities abroad, and 
for enabling the Secretary to coordinate and integrate

[[Page 109 STAT. 325]]

activities of the Department in connection with foreign agricultural 
work, including not to exceed $128,000 for representation allowances and 
for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $124,775,000, of which $5,176,000 may be transferred from 
Commodity Credit Corporation funds, $2,792,000 may be transferred from 
the Commodity Credit Corporation program account in this Act, and 
$1,005,000 may be transferred from the Public Law 480 program account in 
this Act: Provided, That the Service may utilize advances of funds, or 
reimburse this appropriation for expenditures made on behalf of Federal 
agencies, public and private organizations and institutions under 
agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural food production 
assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the International Development Cooperation Administration (22 U.S.C. 
2392): Provided further, That none of the funds made available by this 
Act may be used to carry out activities of the market promotion program 
(7 U.S.C. 5623) which provides direct grants to any for-profit 
corporation that is not recognized as a small business concern under 
section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)), excluding 
cooperatives and associations as described in 7 U.S.C. 291 and non-
profit trade associations: Provided further, That funds available to 
trade associations, cooperatives, and small businesses may be used for 
individual branded promotions; with the beneficiaries having matched the 
cost of such promotions.
    None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph shall be available to 
promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products.

                public law 480 program and grant accounts

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701-1715, 1721-1726, 1727-1727f, 1731-
1736g), as follows: (1) $291,342,000 for Public Law 480 title I credit, 
including Food for Progress programs; (2) $25,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated for ocean freight differential costs for the shipment of 
agricultural commodities pursuant to title I of said Act and the Food 
for Progress Act of 1985, as amended; (3) $821,100,000 is hereby 
appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with dispositions 
abroad pursuant to title II of said Act, of which $60,000,000 shall be 
financed from funds credited to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
pursuant to section 426 of Public Law 103-465; and (4) $50,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated for commodities supplied in connection with 
dispositions abroad pursuant to title III of said Act: Provided, That 
not to exceed 15 percent of the funds made available to carry out any 
title of said Act may be used to carry out any other title of said Act: 
Provided further, That such sums shall remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b).
    For the cost, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, of direct credit agreements as authorized by the 
Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, 
and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended, including the cost of 
modifying credit agreements under said Act, $236,162,000.

[[Page 109 STAT. 326]]

    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the Public Law 
480 title I credit program, and the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as 
amended, to the extent funds appropriated for Public Law 480 are 
utilized, $1,750,000.

                        short-term export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$5,200,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program for short-term credit extended to finance the export sales of 
United States agricultural commodities and the products thereof, as 
authorized by section 202(a) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 
U.S.C. 5641).

                     intermediate-term export credit

    The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make available not less than 
$500,000,000 in credit guarantees under its export credit guarantee 
program for intermediate-term credit extended to finance the export 
sales of United States agricultural commodities and the products 
thereof, as authorized by section 202(b) of the Agricultural Trade Act 
of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5641).

        commodity credit corporation export loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's export guarantee program, GSM-102 and GSM-103, $3,381,000; 
to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity with the 
Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which not to exceed $2,792,000 may 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the salaries and 
expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, and of which not to exceed 
$589,000 may be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for the 
salaries and expenses of the Consolidated Farm Service Agency.

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                      Food and Drug Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for rental of 
special purpose space in the District of Columbia or elsewhere; and for 
miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement activities, 
authorized and approved by the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $25,000; $904,694,000, of 
which not to exceed $84,723,000 in fees pursuant to section 736 of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act may be credited to this 
appropriation and remain available until expended: Provided, That fees 
derived from applications

[[Page 109 STAT. 327]]

received during fiscal year 1996 shall be subject to the fiscal year 
1996 limitation: Provided further, That none of these funds shall be 
used to develop, establish, or operate any program of user fees 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701.
    In addition, fees pursuant to section 354 of the Public Health 
Service Act may be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, 
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by the Food and 
Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, $12,150,000, to 
remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b).

                          rental payments (fda)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 
92-313 for programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration 
which are included in this Act, $46,294,000: Provided, That in the event 
the Food and Drug Administration should require modification of space 
needs, a share of the salaries and expenses appropriation may be 
transferred to this appropriation, or a share of this appropriation may 
be transferred to the salaries and expenses appropriation, but such 
transfers shall not exceed 5 percent of the funds made available for 
rental payments (FDA) to or from this account.

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                      Financial Management Service

   payments to the farm credit system financial assistance corporation

    For necessary payments to the Farm Credit System Financial 
Assistance Corporation by the Secretary of the Treasury, as authorized 
by section 6.28(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, for 
reimbursement of interest expenses incurred by the Financial Assistance 
Corporation on obligations issued through 1994, as authorized, 
$15,453,000.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; the rental of space (to include 
multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and not 
to exceed $25,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; $53,601,000, 
including not to exceed $1,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That the Commission is authorized to charge 
reasonable fees to attendees of Commission sponsored educational events 
and symposia to cover the Commission's costs of providing those events 
and symposia,

[[Page 109 STAT. 328]]

and notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be credited to this 
account, to be available without further appropriation.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 601. <<NOTE: Health and health care. 5 USC 8901 note.>> (a) For 
purposes of the administration of chapter 89 of title 5, United States 
Code, any period of enrollment under a health benefits plan administered 
by the Farm Credit Administration prior to the effective date of this 
Act shall be deemed to be a period of enrollment in a health benefits 
plan under chapter 89 of such title.

    (b)(1) An individual who, on September 30, 1995, is covered by a 
health benefits plan administered by the Farm Credit Administration may 
enroll in an approved health benefits plan described under section 8903 
or 8903a of title 5, United States Code--
            (A) either as an individual or for self and family, if such 
        individual is an employee, annuitant, or former spouse as 
        defined under section 8901 of such title; and
            (B) for coverage effective on and after September 30, 1995.

    (2) An individual who, on September 30, 1995, is entitled to 
continued coverage under a health benefits plan administered by the Farm 
Credit Administration--
            (A) shall be deemed to be entitled to continued coverage 
        under section 8905a of title 5, United States Code, for the same 
        period that would have been permitted under the plan 
        administered by the Farm Credit Administration; and
            (B) may enroll in an approved health benefits plan described 
        under sections 8903 or 8903a of such title in accordance with 
        section 8905A of such title for coverage effective on and after 
        September 30, 1995.

    (3) An individual who, on September 30, 1995, is covered as an 
unmarried dependent child under a health benefits plan administered by 
the Farm Credit Administration and who is not a member of family as 
defined under section 8901(5) of title 5, United States Code--
            (A) shall be deemed to be entitled to continued coverage 
        under section 8905a of such title as though the individual had, 
        on September 30, 1995, ceased to meet the requirements for being 
        considered an unmarried dependent child under chapter 89 of such 
        title; and
            (B) may enroll in an approved health benefits plan described 
        under section 8903 or 8903a of such title in accordance with 
        section 8905a for continued coverage on and after September 30, 
        1995.

    (c) The Farm Credit Administration shall transfer to the Federal 
Employees Health Benefits Fund established under section 8909 of title 
5, United States Code, amounts determined by the Director of the Office 
of Personnel Management, after consultation with the Farm Credit 
Administration, to be necessary to reimburse the Fund for the cost of 
providing benefits under this section not otherwise paid for by the 
individuals covered by this section. The amount so transferred shall be 
held in the Fund and used by the Office in addition to the amounts 
available under section 8906(g)(1) of such title.
    (d) The Office of Personnel Management--

[[Page 109 STAT. 329]]

            (1) shall administer the provisions of this section to 
        provide for--
                    (A) a period of notice and open enrollment for 
                individuals affected by this section; and
                    (B) no lapse of health coverage for individuals who 
                enroll in a health benefits plan under chapter 89 of 
                title 5, United States Code, in accordance with this 
                section; and
            (2) may prescribe regulations to implement this section.

                      TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, appropriations 
and authorizations made for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal 
year 1996 under this Act shall be available for the purchase, in 
addition to those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 665 
passenger motor vehicles, of which 642 shall be for replacement only, 
and for the hire of such vehicles.
    Sec. 702. Funds in this Act available to the Department of 
Agriculture shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 703. <<NOTE: 7 USC 1623a.>> Not less than $1,500,000 of the 
appropriations of the Department of Agriculture in this Act for research 
and service work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 1946, and July 28, 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for contracting in accordance with said 
Acts and chapter.

    Sec. 704. The cumulative total of transfers to the Working Capital 
Fund for the purpose of accumulating growth capital for data services 
and National Finance Center operations shall not exceed $2,000,000: 
Provided, That no funds in this Act appropriated to an agency of the 
Department shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the 
approval of the agency administrator.
    Sec. 705. <<NOTE: 7 USC 2209b.>> New obligational authority provided 
for the following appropriation items in this Act shall remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, the contingency fund to meet emergency conditions, and 
integrated systems acquisition project; Consolidated Farm Service 
Agency, salaries and expenses funds made available to county committees; 
and Foreign Agricultural Service, middle-income country training 
program.

    New obligational authority for the boll weevil program; up to 10 
percent of the screwworm program of the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service; Food Safety and Inspection Service, field automation 
and information management project; funds appropriated for rental 
payments; funds for the Native American institutions endowment fund in 
the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, and 
funds for the competitive research grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)) shall 
remain available until expended.
    Sec. 706. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations available to 
the Department of Agriculture in this Act shall be available to provide 
appropriate orientation and language training pursuant to Public Law 94-
449.

[[Page 109 STAT. 330]]

    Sec. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is to 
carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This does 
not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 709. <<NOTE: 7 USC 612c note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, commodities acquired by the Department in 
connection with Commodity Credit Corporation and section 32 price 
support operations may be used, as authorized by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 
7 U.S.C. 612c), to provide commodities to individuals in cases of 
hardship as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

    Sec. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
reimburse the General Services Administration for payment of space 
rental and related costs in excess of the amounts specified in this Act; 
nor shall this or any other provision of law require a reduction in the 
level of rental space or services below that of fiscal year 1995 or 
prohibit an expansion of rental space or services with the use of funds 
otherwise appropriated in this Act. Further, no agency of the Department 
of Agriculture, from funds otherwise available, shall reimburse the 
General Services Administration for payment of space rental and related 
costs provided to such agency at a percentage rate which is greater than 
is available in the case of funds appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall be available to 
restrict the authority of the Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf of other agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture when such space will be jointly occupied.
    Sec. 712. With the exception of grants awarded under the Small 
Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219, as 
amended (15 U.S.C. 638), none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available to pay indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively 
by the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service that 
exceed 14 percent of total Federal funds provided under each award.
    Sec. 713. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, all loan 
levels provided in this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations.
    Sec. 714. Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in fiscal year 1996 
shall remain available until expended to cover obligations made in 
fiscal year 1996 for the following accounts: the rural development loan 
fund program account; the Rural Telephone Bank program account; the 
rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account; and 
the rural economic development loans program account.
    Sec. 715. Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1996 pay 
raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 716. (a) Compliance With Buy American Act.--None of the funds 
made available in this Act may be expended by an entity unless the 
entity agrees that in expending the funds the

[[Page 109 STAT. 331]]

entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 
(41 U.S.C. 10a-10c; popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    (b) Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--
            (1) Purchase of american-made equipment and products.--In 
        the case of any equipment or product that may be authorized to 
        be purchased with financial assistance provided using funds made 
        available in this Act, it is the sense of the Congress that 
        entities receiving the assistance should, in expending the 
        assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
            (2) Notice to recipients of assistance.--In providing 
        financial assistance using funds made available in this Act, the 
        head of each Federal agency shall provide to each recipient of 
        the assistance a notice describing the statement made in 
        paragraph (1) by the Congress.

    (c) Prohibition of Contracts With Persons Falsely Labeling Products 
as Made in America.--If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to receive 
any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in this Act, 
pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures 
described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations.
    Sec. 717. Notwithstanding the Federal Grant and Cooperative 
Agreement Act, marketing services of the Agricultural Marketing Service 
may use cooperative agreements to reflect a relationship between 
Agricultural Marketing Service and a State or Cooperator to carry out 
agricultural marketing programs.
    Sec. 718.  <<NOTE: 7 USC 1446h note.>> Prohibition on Use of Funds 
for Honey Payments or Loan Forfeitures.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
provide for a total amount of payments and/or total amount of loan 
forfeitures to a person to support the price of honey under section 207 
of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446h) and section 405A of 
such Act (7 U.S.C. 1425a) in excess of zero dollars in the 1994, 1995, 
and 1996 crop years.

    Sec. 719. None of the funds in this Act may be used to retire more 
than 5% of the Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank.

    Sec. 720. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to provide benefits to households whose benefits 
are calculated using a standard deduction greater than the standard 
deduction in effect for fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 721. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any 
applicable Federal law relating to risk assessment, the protection of 
private property rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 722. None of the funds made available in this Act shall be used 
to increase, from the fiscal year 1995 level, the level of Full Time 
Equivalency Positions (whether through new hires or by transferring full 
time equivalents from other offices) in any

[[Page 109 STAT. 332]]

of the following Food and Drug Administration offices: Office of the 
Commissioner, Office of Policy, Office of External Affairs (Immediate 
Office, as well as Office of Health Affairs, Office of Legislative 
Affairs, Office of Consumer Affairs, and Office of Public Affairs), and 
the Office of Management and Systems (Immediate Office, as well as 
Office of Planning and Evaluation and Office of Management).
    Sec. 723. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide assistance to, or to pay the salaries of personnel who carry 
out a market promotion program pursuant to section 203 of the 
Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623) that provides assistance 
to, the U.S. Mink Export Development Council or any mink industry trade 
association.
    Sec. 724. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to enroll in excess of 100,000 acres in the 
fiscal year 1996 wetlands reserve program, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
3837.
    Sec. 725. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall be used to enroll additional acres in the Conservation 
Reserve Program authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3831-3845: Provided, That 
1,579,000 new acres shall be enrolled in the program in the year 
beginning January 1, 1997.
    Sec. 726. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act may be used to develop compliance guidelines, implement or 
enforce a regulation promulgated by the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service on August 25, 1995 (60 Fed. Reg. 44396): Provided, That this 
regulation shall take effect only if legislation is enacted into law 
which directs the Secretary of Agriculture to promulgate such 
regulation, or the House Committee on Agriculture and the Senate 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry receive and approve a 
proposed revised regulation submitted by the Secretary of Agriculture.
    Sec. 727. None of the funds appropriated or made available to the 
Food and Drug Administration by this Act shall be used to operate the 
Board of Tea Experts.
    Sec. 728. None of the funds available in this Act shall be used for 
any action, including the development or assertion of any position or 
recommendation by or on behalf of the Forest Service, that directly or 
indirectly results in the loss of or restriction on the diversion and 
use of water from existing water supply facilities located on National 
Forest lands by the owners of such facilities, or result in a material 
increase in the cost of such yield to the owners of the water supply: 
Provided, That nothing in this section shall preclude a mutual agreement 
between any agency of the Department of Agriculture and a State or local 
governmental entity or private entity or individual.
    Sec. 729. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Upon the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall not enforce Federal 
regulation 36 CFR Part 223 promulgated on September 8, 1995, for a 
period of no less than 120 days: Provided, That during such time the 
Secretary shall take notice and public comment on the regulations and 
make the necessary revisions to reflect public comment. Any fines 
assessed pursuant to 36 CFR Part 223, from the effective date of said 
regulation to the date of enactment of this Act, shall be null and void. 
During the 120 day period, the interim regulatory guidelines published 
pursuant to 55 CFR 48572 and 56 CFR 65834 shall remain in effect.

[[Page 109 STAT. 333]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1996''.

    Approved October 21, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1976:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 104-172 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 104-268 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-142 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            July 19-21, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 18-20, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 12, House and Senate agreed to conference report.

                                  <all>