[104th Congress Public Law 52]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ52.104]

  TREASURY, POSTAL SERVICE, AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 
                                  1996

[[Page 109 STAT. 468]]

Public Law 104-52
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for the Treasury Department, the United States 
   Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 19, 1995 -  [H.R. 2020]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Treasury, Postal 
Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1996.>>  That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Treasury Department, the United States 
Postal Service, the Executive Office of the President, and certain 
Independent Agencies, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and 
for other purposes, namely:

   TITLE I <<NOTE: Treasury Department Appropriations Act, 1996.>> --
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, and 
purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties leased or 
owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of official business; 
not to exceed $2,900,000 for official travel expenses; not to exceed 
$2,950,000 to remain available until expended for information technology 
modernization requirements; not to exceed $150,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $258,000 for 
unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and 
expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be 
accounted for solely on his certificate; $105,929,000, of which up to 
$500,000 shall be available to reimburse the District of Columbia 
Metropolitan Police Department for personnel costs incurred by the 
Metropolitan Police Department between May 19, 1995 and September 30, 
1995 as a result of the closing to vehicular traffic of Pennsylvania 
Avenue Northwest and other streets in the vicinity of the White House: 
Provided, That section 640 of title VI of the Treasury, Postal Service 
and General Government Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-329, 108 
Stat. 2432), is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new 
sentence: ``This section shall not apply to any claim where the employee 
has received any compensation for overtime hours worked during the 
period covered by the claim under any other provision of law, including, 
but not limited to, 5 U.S.C. 5545(c), or to any claim for compensation

[[Page 109 STAT. 469]]

for time spent commuting between the employee's residence and duty 
station.''.

           treasury buildings and annex repair and restoration

      For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Treasury 
Building and Annex, and the Secret Service Headquarters Building, 
$21,491,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Office of Inspector General

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,000,000 for 
official travel expenses; not to exceed $100,000 for unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under 
the direction of the Inspector General of the Treasury; $29,319,000.

                        treasury forfeiture fund

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, as 
authorized by Public Law 102-393, not to exceed $10,000,000, to be 
derived from deposits in the Fund.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel expenses of non-
Federal law enforcement personnel to attend meetings concerned with 
financial intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial 
regulation; not to exceed $14,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; $22,198,000: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
Network may procure up to $500,000 in specialized, unique or novel 
automatic data processing equipment, ancillary equipment, software, 
services, and related resources from commercial vendors without regard 
to otherwise applicable procurement laws and regulations and without 
full and open competition, utilizing procedures best suited under the 
circumstances of the procurement to efficiently fulfill the agency's 
requirements: Provided further, That funds appropriated in this account 
may be used to procure personal services contracts.

                 Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, as a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, including 
materials and support costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; 
purchase (not to exceed fifty-two for police-type use) and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; for expenses for student athletic and related 
activities; uniforms without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year; the conducting

[[Page 109 STAT. 470]]

of and participating in firearms matches and presentation of awards; for 
public awareness and enhancing community support of law enforcement 
training; not to exceed $7,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; room and board for student interns; and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That <<NOTE: Gifts and property. 42 USC 3771 
note.>>  the Center is authorized to accept and use gifts of property, 
both real and personal, and to accept services, for authorized purposes, 
including funding of a gift of intrinsic value which shall be awarded 
annually by the Director of the Center to the outstanding student who 
graduated from a basic training program at the Center during the 
previous fiscal year, which shall be funded only by gifts received 
through the Center's gift authority: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, students attending training 
at any Federal Law Enforcement Training Center site shall reside in on-
Center or Center-provided housing, insofar as available and in 
accordance with Center policy: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
in this account shall be available for training United States Postal 
Service law enforcement personnel and Postal police officers, at the 
discretion of the Director; State and local government law enforcement 
training on a space-available basis; training of foreign law enforcement 
officials on a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs 
to this appropriation; training of private sector security officials on 
a space-available basis with reimbursement of actual costs to this 
appropriation; travel expenses of non-Federal personnel to attend State 
and local course development meetings at the Center: Provided further, 
That the Center is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of 
reimbursements from agencies receiving training at the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, except that total obligations at the end of 
the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources available at 
the end of the fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to provide short term medical 
services for students undergoing training at the Center; $36,070,000, of 
which $8,666,000 for materials and support costs of Federal law 
enforcement basic training shall remain available until September 30, 
1998.

      acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For expansion of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, for 
acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, and 
for ongoing maintenance, facility improvements, and related expenses, 
$9,663,000, to remain available until expended.

                      Financial Management Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Management Service, 
$184,300,000, of which not to exceed $14,277,000 shall remain available 
until expended for systems modernization initiatives. In addition, 
$90,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to 
reimburse the Service for administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

[[Page 109 STAT. 471]]

                 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms, including purchase of not to exceed six hundred and fifty 
vehicles for police-type use for replacement only and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; hire of aircraft; and services of expert witnesses at 
such rates as may be determined by the Director; for payment of per diem 
and/or subsistence allowances to employees where an assignment to the 
National Response Team during the investigation of a bombing or arson 
incident requires an employee to work 16 hours or more per day or to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; for training of State 
and local law enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement; 
provision of laboratory assistance to State and local agencies, with or 
without reimbursement; $377,971,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as provided by 18 
U.S.C. 924(d)(2); and of which $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
equipping of any vessel, vehicle, equipment, or aircraft available for 
official use by a State or local law enforcement agency if the 
conveyance will be used in drug-related joint law enforcement operations 
with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and for the payment of 
overtime salaries, travel, fuel, training, equipment, and other similar 
costs of State and local law enforcement officers that are incurred in 
joint operations with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms: 
Provided, That no funds made available by this or any other Act may be 
used to implement any reorganization of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco 
and Firearms or transfer of the Bureau's functions, missions, or 
activities to other agencies or Departments in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1996: Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein 
shall be available for salaries or administrative expenses in connection 
with consolidating or centralizing, within the Department of the 
Treasury, the records, or any portion thereof, of acquisition and 
disposition of firearms maintained by Federal firearms licensees: 
Provided further, That no funds appropriated herein shall be used to pay 
administrative expenses or the compensation of any officer or employee 
of the United States to implement an amendment or amendments to 27 CFR 
178.118 or to change the definition of ``Curios or relics'' in 27 CFR 
178.11 or remove any item from ATF Publication 5300.11 as it existed on 
January 1, 1994: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated 
herein shall be available to investigate or act upon applications for 
relief from Federal firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. 925(c): 
Provided further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and 
act upon applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal 
firearms disabilities under 18 U.S.C. section 925(c).

                      United States Customs Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Customs Service, 
including purchase of up to 1,000 motor vehicles of which 960 are for 
replacement only, including 990 for police-type use and commercial 
operations; hire of motor vehicles; not to exceed $20,000

[[Page 109 STAT. 472]]

for official reception and representation expenses; and awards of 
compensation to informers, as authorized by any Act enforced by the 
United States Customs Service; $1,387,153,000, of which such sums as 
become available in the Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to 
section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 
1985, as amended (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that 
Account; of that total, not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for 
payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations, and 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be available until expended for research: 
Provided, That uniforms may be purchased without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That the Commissioner of the Customs Service designate a single 
individual to be port director of all United States Government 
activities at two ports of entry, one on the southern border and one on 
the northern border: Provided further, That $750,000 shall be available 
for additional part-time and temporary positions in the Honolulu Customs 
District.

                    harbor maintenance fee collection

    For administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee, pursuant to Public Law 103-182, $3,000,000, to be 
derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund and to be transferred to 
and merged with the Customs ``Salaries and Expenses'' account for such 
purposes.

     operation and maintenance, air and marine interdiction programs

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of marine vessels, aircraft, and other related 
equipment of the Air and Marine Programs, including operational training 
and mission-related travel, and rental payments for facilities occupied 
by the air or marine interdiction or demand reduction programs, the 
operations of which include: the interdiction of narcotics and other 
goods; the provision of support to Customs and other Federal, State, and 
local agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws enforced by 
the Customs Service; and, at the discretion of the Commissioner of 
Customs, the provision of assistance to Federal, State, and local 
agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian efforts; 
$64,843,000 which shall remain available until expended; in addition, 
$19,733,000 shall be transferred from the Customs Air and Marine 
Interdiction Programs, Procurement Account to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That no aircraft or other related equipment, with 
the exception of aircraft which is one of a kind and has been identified 
as excess to Customs requirements, and aircraft which has been damaged 
beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other Federal agency, 
Department, or office outside of the Department of the Treasury, during 
fiscal year 1996, without the prior approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations.

[[Page 109 STAT. 473]]

                   customs services at small airports

                   (to be derived from fees collected)

    Such sums as may be necessary, not to exceed $1,406,000, for 
expenses for the provision of Customs services at certain small airports 
or other facilities when authorized by law and designated by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, including expenditures for the salary and 
expenses of individuals employed to provide such services, to be derived 
from fees collected by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 
236 of Public Law 98-573 for each of these airports or other facilities 
when authorized by law and designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
and to remain available until expended.

                        Bureau of the Public Debt

                      administering the public debt

    For necessary expenses connected with any public-debt issues of the 
United States; $180,065,000: Provided, That the sum appropriated herein 
from the General Fund for fiscal year 1996 shall be reduced by not more 
than $600,000 as definitive security issue fees are collected and not 
more than $9,465,000 as Treasury Direct Investor Account Maintenance 
fees are collected, so as to result in a final fiscal year 1996 
appropriation from the General Fund estimated at $170,000,000.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                 processing, assistance, and management

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service, not 
otherwise provided for; including processing tax returns; revenue 
accounting; providing assistance to taxpayers, management services, and 
inspection; including purchase (not to exceed 150 for replacement only, 
for police-type use) and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Commissioner: $1,723,764,000, of which up to 
$3,700,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, and 
of which not to exceed $25,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                           tax law enforcement

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service for 
determining and establishing tax liabilities; tax and enforcement 
litigation; technical rulings; examining employee plans and exempt 
organizations; investigation and enforcement activities; securing 
unfiled tax returns; collecting unpaid accounts; statistics of income 
and compliance research; the purchase (for police-type use, not to 
exceed 850), and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner $4,097,294,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 1998 for research: 
Provided, That $13,000,000 shall be used to initiate a program to 
utilize private counsel law firms and debt collection agencies in the 
collection activities of the

[[Page 109 STAT. 474]]

Internal Revenue Service in compliance with section 104 of this Act.

                           information systems

    For necessary expenses for data processing and telecommunications 
support for Internal Revenue Service activities, including: tax systems 
modernization (modernized developmental systems), modernized operational 
systems, services and compliance, and support systems; and for the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $1,527,154,000, of which no less than $695,000,000 shall 
be available for tax systems modernization activities, of which up to 
$185,000,000 for tax and information systems development projects shall 
remain available until September 30, 1998: Provided, 
<<NOTE: Reports.>> That of the funds appropriated for tax systems 
modernization, $100,000,000 may not be obligated until the Secretary of 
the Treasury provides a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and the Senate that (1) with explicit decision criteria, 
identifies, evaluates, and prioritizes all systems investments planned 
for fiscal year 1996, (2) provides a schedule for successfully 
mitigating deficiencies identified by the General Accounting Office in 
its April 1995 report to the Committees, (3) presents a milestone 
schedule for development and implementation of all projects included in 
the tax systems modernization program, and (4) presents a plan to expand 
the utilization of external expertise for systems development and total 
program integration.

administrative provisions--internal revenue service <<NOTE: taxes.>> 

    Section 1. Not to exceed 2 per centum of any appropriation made 
available to the Internal Revenue Service for the current fiscal year by 
this Act may be transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, the Internal Revenue Service is authorized to 
transfer such sums as may be necessary between appropriations with 
advance approval of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees.
    Sec. 2. <<NOTE: Employee training. 26 USC 7803 note.>> The Internal 
Revenue Service shall institute and maintain a training program to 
insure that Internal Revenue Service employees are trained in taxpayers' 
rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural 
relations.

                      United States Secret Service

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase (not to exceed 665 vehicles for police-type use for 
replacement only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire of 
aircraft; training and assistance requested by State and local 
governments, which may be provided without reimbursement; services of 
expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the Director; 
rental of buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, lighting, 
guard booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control, as may

[[Page 109 STAT. 475]]

be necessary to perform protective functions; for payment of per diem 
and/or subsistence allowances to employees where a protective assignment 
during the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee require an 
employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at his or her 
post of duty; the conducting of and participating in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; and for travel of Secret Service employees on 
protective missions without regard to the limitations on such 
expenditures in this or any other Act: Provided, That approval is 
obtained in advance from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; for repairs, alterations, and minor construction at the 
James J. Rowley Secret Service Training Center; for research and 
development; for making grants to conduct behavioral research in support 
of protective research and operations; not to exceed $12,500 for 
official reception and representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 to 
provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement 
organizations in counterfeit investigations; for payment in advance for 
commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective 
functions; and for uniforms without regard to the general purchase price 
limitation for the current fiscal year; $531,944,000.

                    Violent Crime Reduction Programs

    For activities authorized by Public Law 103-322, to remain available 
until expended, which shall be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund, as follows:
      (a) As authorized by section 190001(e), $69,314,000, of which 
$25,690,000 shall be available to the United States Customs Service for 
expenses associated with ``Operation Hardline''; of which $21,010,000 
shall be available to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, of 
which no less than $14,410,000 shall be available to annualize the 
salaries and related costs for the fiscal year 1995 supplemental 
initiative, and of which no less than $3,500,000 shall be available for 
administering the Gang Resistance Education and Training program, and of 
which $3,100,000 shall be available for ballistics technologies; of 
which $21,600,000 shall be available to the United States Secret 
Service, of which no less than $1,600,000 shall be available for 
enhancing forensics technology to aid missing and exploited children 
investigations; and of which $1,014,000 shall be available to the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; and

    (b) As authorized by section 32401, $7,200,000, for disbursement 
through grants, cooperative agreements or contracts, to local 
governments for Gang Resistance Education and Training: Provided, That 
notwithstanding sections 32401 and 310001, such funds shall be allocated 
only to the affected State and local law enforcement and prevention 
organizations participating in such projects.

             General Provisions--Department of the Treasury

    Section 101. Any obligation or expenditure by the Secretary in 
connection with law enforcement activities of a Federal agency or a 
Department of the Treasury law enforcement organization in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 9703(g)(4)(B) from unobligated balances remaining in the 
Fund on September 30, 1996, shall be made in compliance with the 
reprogramming guidelines contained in the House and Senate reports 
accompanying this Act.

[[Page 109 STAT. 476]]

    Sec. 102. Appropriations to the Treasury Department in this Act 
shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; 
purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in foreign 
countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the general 
purchase price limitation for vehicles purchased and used overseas for 
the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the Department of 
State for the furnishing of health and medical services to employees and 
their dependents serving in foreign countries; and services authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be used 
in connection with the collection of any underpayment of any tax imposed 
by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 unless the conduct of officers and 
employees of the Internal Revenue Service in connection with such 
collection, including any private sector employees under contract to the 
Internal Revenue Service, complies with subsection (a) of section 805 
(relating to communications in connection with debt collection), and 
section 806 (relating to harassment or abuse), of the Fair Debt 
Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692).
    Sec. 105. <<NOTE: Confidential information. 26 USC 6103 note.>> The 
Internal Revenue Service shall institute policies and procedures which 
will safeguard the confidentiality of taxpayer information.

    Sec. 106. The funds provided to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms for fiscal year 1996 in this Act for the enforcement of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act shall be expended in a manner so as 
not to diminish enforcement efforts with respect to section 105 of the 
Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: 31 USC 321 note.>> The Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized in fiscal year 1996 and hereafter, to use Treasury 
Department aircraft, with or without reimbursement, to assist bureaus 
within the Department of the Treasury or other Federal agencies, 
Departments or offices outside of the Department of the Treasury to 
provide emergency law enforcement support to protect human life, 
property, public health, or safety.

    This title may be cited as the ``Treasury Department Appropriations 
Act, 1996''.

  TITLE II-- <<NOTE: Postal Service Appropriations Act, 1996.>> POSTAL 
SERVICE

                     Payments to the Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code; $85,080,000: Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further,  <<NOTE: 39 USC 403 note.>> That six-day delivery and 
rural delivery of mail shall continue at not less than the 1983 level: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available to the Postal 
Service by this Act shall be used to implement any rule, regulation, or 
policy of charging any officer or employee of any State or local child 
support enforcement agency, or any individual participating in a State 
or local program of child support enforcement, a fee for information 
requested or provided concerning an address of a postal customer: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
used to consolidate or close

[[Page 109 STAT. 477]]

small rural and other small post offices in the fiscal year ending on 
September 30, 1996.

      payment to the postal service fund for nonfunded liabilities

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for meeting the liabilities 
of the former Post Office Department to the Employees' Compensation Fund 
pursuant to 39 U.S.C. 2004, $36,828,000.
    This title may be cited as the ``Postal Service Appropriations Act, 
1996''.

        TITLE III-- <<NOTE: Executive Office Appropriations Act, 
1996.>> EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
PRESIDENT

                      Compensation of the President

    For compensation of the President, including an expense allowance at 
the rate of $50,000 per annum as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 102; $250,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>> That none of the funds made 
available for official expenses shall be expended for any other purpose 
and any unused amount shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 
1552 of title 31 of the United States Code: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available for official expenses shall be considered as 
taxable to the President.

                         The White House Office

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; including subsistence expenses as 
authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as 
provided in that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, newspapers, 
periodicals, teletype news service, and travel (not to exceed $100,000 
to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); not to 
exceed $19,000 for official entertainment expenses, to be available for 
allocation within the Executive Office of the President; $39,459,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For the care, maintenance, repair and alteration, refurnishing, 
improvement, heating and lighting, including electric power and 
fixtures, of the Executive Residence at the White House and official 
entertainment expenses of the President; $7,827,000, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109-110, 112-114.

                   white house repair and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House, $2,200,000, to remain available until 
expended for replacement of the White House roof, to be expended and 
accounted for as provided by 3 U.S.C. 105, 109-110, 112-114.

[[Page 109 STAT. 478]]

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, heating and 
lighting, including electric power and fixtures, of the official 
residence of the Vice President, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
and not to exceed $90,000 for official entertainment expenses of the 
Vice President, to be accounted for solely on his certificate; $324,000: 
Provided, That advances or repayments or transfers from this 
appropriation may be made to any department or agency for expenses of 
carrying out such activities.

                   Special Assistance to the President

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions, services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; $3,280,000.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                          salaries and expenses

      For necessary expenses of the Council in carrying out its 
functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 1021), $3,180,000.

                      Office of Policy Development

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Policy Development, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and 3 U.S.C. 107; 
$3,867,000.

                        National Security Council

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $6,648,000.

                        Office of Administration

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration; $25,736,000, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles.

                     Office of Management and Budget

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as

[[Page 109 STAT. 479]]

authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $55,573,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 
chapter 35: Provided, That, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1301(a), 
appropriations shall be applied only to the objects for which 
appropriations were made except as otherwise provided by law: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office 
of Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the 
provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for 
the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except 
for testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, 
before the Committee on Appropriations or the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs or their subcommittees: Provided further, That this proviso 
shall not apply to printed hearings released by the Committee on 
Appropriations or the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

      For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to title I of Public Law 100-
690; not to exceed $8,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; for participation in joint projects or in the provision of 
services on matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or 
public organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement; 
$23,500,000, of which $16,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available to the Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center for 
counternarcotics research and development projects and shall be 
available for transfer to other Federal departments or agencies; and of 
the funds made available to the Counter-Drug Technology Assessment 
Center, $600,000 shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement 
Administration for the El Paso Intelligence Center: Provided, 
<<NOTE: Gifts and property.>> That the Office is authorized to accept, 
hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal, for the 
purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.

                           Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet unanticipated 
needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense 
which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal year; 
$1,000,000.

                      Federal Drug Control Programs

              high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                      (including transfer of funds)

      For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $103,000,000 for 
drug control activities consistent with the approved strategy for each 
of the designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking

[[Page 109 STAT. 480]]

Areas, of which no less than $55,000,000 shall be transferred to State 
and local entities for drug control activities; and of which up to 
$48,000,000 may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments at a 
rate to be determined by the Director: Provided, That the funds made 
available under this head shall be obligated within 90 days of the date 
of enactment of this Act.

    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office Appropriations 
Act, 1996''.

      TITLE IV-- <<NOTE: Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1996.>> INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

           Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations

                          salaries and expenses

       <<NOTE: Government organization. 42 USC note prec. 4271.>> For 
necessary expenses of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental 
Relations, $784,000, of which $334,000 is to carry out the provisions of 
Public Law 104-4, and of which $450,000 shall be available only for the 
purposes of the prompt and orderly termination of the Advisory 
Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                          salaries and expenses

       <<NOTE: Government organization. Termination date. 5 USC note 
prec. 591.>> For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of 
the United States, established under subchapter V of chapter 5 of title 
5, United States Code, $600,000: Provided, That these funds shall only 
be available for the purposes of the prompt and orderly termination of 
the Administrative Conference of the United States by February 1, 1996.

  Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Committee for Purchase From People Who 
Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by the Act of June 23, 1971, 
Public Law 92-28; $1,800,000.

                       Federal Election Commission

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended; $26,521,000, of which no less 
than $1,500,000 shall be available for internal automated data 
processing systems,  of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be available 
for reception and representation expenses: Provided, That none of the 
funds appropriated for automated data processing systems may be 
obligated until the Chairman of the Federal Election Commission provides 
to the House Committee on Appropriations a systems requirements analysis 
on the development of such a system.

[[Page 109 STAT. 481]]

                    Federal Labor Relations Authority

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, including hire of experts and consultants, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere; $20,542,000: Provided, That public 
members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel 
expenses and per diem in lieu of subsistence as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed intermittently in the Government 
service, and compensation as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees 
charged to non-Federal participants at labor-management relations 
conferences shall be credited to and merged with this account, to be 
available without further appropriation for the costs of carrying out 
these conferences.

                     General Services Administration

                         Federal Buildings Fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                         (including rescission)

    For additional expenses necessary to carry out the purpose of the 
Fund established pursuant to section 210(f) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)), 
$86,000,000, to be deposited into said Fund shall be available for 
necessary expenses of real property management and related activities 
not otherwise provided for, including operation, maintenance, and 
protection of Federally owned and leased buildings; rental of buildings 
in the District of Columbia; restoration of leased premises; moving 
governmental agencies (including space adjustments and 
telecommunications relocation expenses) in connection with the 
assignment, allocation and transfer of space; contractual services 
incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and moving; repair and 
alteration of federally owned buildings including grounds, approaches 
and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance, 
preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of buildings and 
sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by law; 
acquisition of options to purchase buildings and sites; conversion and 
extension of Federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and design 
of projects by contract or otherwise; construction of new buildings 
(including equipment for such buildings); and payment of principal, 
interest, taxes, and any other obligations for public buildings acquired 
by installment purchase and purchase contract, in the aggregate amount 
of $5,066,149,000, of which (1) not to exceed $545,002,000 shall remain 
available until expended for construction of additional projects at 
locations and at maximum construction improvement costs (including funds 
for sites and expenses and associated design and construction services) 
as follows:
      New Construction:

[[Page 109 STAT. 482]]

            Colorado:
                    Lakewood, Denver Federal Center, U.S. Geological 
                Survey Lab Building, $25,802,000
            Florida:
                    Tallahassee, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $24,015,000
            Georgia:
                    Savannah, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $2,597,000
            Louisiana:
                    Lafayette, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $29,565,000
            Maryland:
                    Prince Georges County, Food and Drug Administration, 
                $55,000,000
            Nebraska:
                    Omaha, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $53,424,000
            New Mexico:
                    Albuquerque, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $6,126,000
            New York:
                    Central Islip, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $189,102,000
            North Dakota:
                    Pembina, Border Station, $11,113,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Scranton, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse 
                Annex, $24,095,000
            South Carolina:
                    Columbia, U.S. Courthouse Annex, $3,562,000
            Texas:
                    Austin, Veterans Affairs Annex, $7,940,000
                    Brownsville, Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $27,452,000
            Washington:
                    Point Roberts, U.S. Border Station, $3,516,000
                    Seattle, U.S. Courthouse, $5,600,000
            West Virginia:
                    Martinsburg, Internal Revenue Service Computer 
                Center, $63,408,000
            Non-prospectus Projects Program, $12,685,000:

Provided, That each of the immediately foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction projects may be exceeded to the extent that savings are 
effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 per centum unless 
advanced approval is obtained from the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That the 
$6,000,000 under the heading of non-prospectus construction projects, 
made available in Public Laws 102-393 and 103-123 for the acquisition, 
lease, construction and equipping of flexiplace work telecommuting 
centers, is hereby increased by $5,000,000 from funds made available in 
this Act for non-prospectus construction projects, all of which shall 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That of the 
$5,000,000 made available by this Act, half shall be used for 
telecommuting centers in the State of Virginia and half shall be used 
for telecommuting centers in the State of Maryland: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available for the District of Columbia, Southeast 
Federal Center, under the heading, ``Real Property Activi

[[Page 109 STAT. 483]]

ties, Federal Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'' 
in Public Law 101-509, $55,000,000 are rescinded: Provided further, That 
the limitation on the availability of revenue contained in such Act is 
reduced by $55,000,000: Provided further, That all funds for direct 
construction projects shall expire on September 30, 1997, and remain in 
the Federal Buildings Fund except funds for projects as to which funds 
for design or other funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior 
to such date: Provided further,  <<NOTE: Claims.>> That claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects, acquisitions of buildings and purchase contract projects 
pursuant to Public Law 92-313, be liquidated with prior notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate to the extent 
savings are effected in other such projects; (2) not to exceed 
$637,000,000 shall remain available until expended, for repairs and 
alterations which includes associated design and construction services: 
Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act for 
Repairs and Alterations may be used to fund costs associated with 
implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet the 
minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and in 
compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That funds in the 
Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for prospectus 
projects, be limited to the amount by project as follows, except each 
project may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 per centum unless 
advance approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate of a greater amount:
      Repairs and Alterations:
            Arkansas:
                    Little Rock, Federal Building, $7,551,000
            California:
                    Sacramento, Federal Building (2800 Cottage Way), 
                $13,636,000
            District of Columbia:
                    ICC/Connecting Wing Complex/Customs (phase 2/3), 
                $58,275,000
            Illinois:
                    Chicago, Federal Center, $45,971,000
            Maryland:
                    Woodlawn, SSA East High-Low Buildings, $17,422,000
            North Dakota:
                    Bismarck, Federal Building, Post Office and U.S. 
                Courthouse, $7,119,000
            Pennsylvania:
                    Philadelphia, Byrne-Green Complex, $30,909,000
                    Philadelphia, SSA Building, Mid-Atlantic Program 
                Service Center, $11,376,000
            Puerto Rico:
                    Old San Juan, Post Office and U.S. Courthouse, 
                $25,701,000
            Texas:
                    Dallas, Federal Building (Griffin St.), $5,641,000
            Washington:
                    Richland, Federal Building, U.S. Post Office, and 
                Courthouse, $10,000,000
            Nationwide:

[[Page 109 STAT. 484]]

                    Chlorofluorocarbons Program, $43,533,000
                    Elevator Program, $13,109,000
                    Energy Program, $20,000,000
                    Advance Design, $22,000,000

    Basic Repairs and Alterations, $304,757,000: Provided further, That 
additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully approved may 
be funded under this category only if advance approval is obtained from 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided 
further, That the difference between the funds appropriated and expended 
on any projects in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs 
and Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations 
or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That all funds for repairs and alterations prospectus projects 
shall expire on September 30, 1997, and remain in the Federal Buildings 
Fund except funds for projects as to which funds for design or other 
funds have been obligated in whole or in part prior to such date: 
Provided further, That of the funds provided for Advanced Design, 
$100,000 shall be made available for architectural design studies for 
renovation of the National Veterinary Services Laboratory and a 
biocontainment facility at the National Animal Disease Center, Ames, 
Iowa: Provided further, That the amount provided in this or any prior 
Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
the Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects; (3)  not to exceed $181,963,000 for installment acquisition 
payments including payments on purchase contracts which shall remain 
available until expended; (4) not to exceed $2,326,200,000 for rental of 
space which shall remain available until expended; and (5) not to exceed 
$1,302,551,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for 
logistical support and personnel services for the Xth Paralympiad for 
building operations which shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That funds available to the General Services 
Administration shall not be available for expenses in connection with 
any construction, repair, alteration, and acquisition project for which 
a prospectus, if required by the Public Buildings Act of 1959, as 
amended, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be 
expended for each project for required expenses in connection with the 
development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, That the 
Administrator is authorized to enter into and perform such leases, 
contracts, or other transactions with any agency or instrumentality of 
the United States, the several States, or the District of Columbia, or 
with any person, firm, association, or corporation, as may be necessary 
to implement the trade center plan at the Federal Triangle Project: 
Provided further, That for the purposes of this authorization, buildings 
constructed pursuant to the purchase contract authority of the Public 
Buildings Amendments of 1972 (40 U.S.C. 602a), buildings occupied 
pursuant to installment purchase contracts, and buildings under the 
control of another department or agency where alterations of such 
buildings are required in connection with the moving of such other 
department or agency from buildings then, or thereafter to be, under the 
control of the General Services Administration shall be considered to be 
federally owned buildings: Provided further, That funds available in the 
Federal Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when 
advance approval is obtained from the Commit

[[Page 109 STAT. 485]]

tees on Appropriations of the House and Senate: Provided further, That 
amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special services to other 
agencies under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal Property and 
Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) 
and amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard 
booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to enable the 
United States Secret Service to perform its protective functions 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, as amended, shall be available from such 
revenues and collections: Provided further, That revenues and 
collections and any other sums accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 
1996, excluding reimbursements under section 210(f)(6) of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f)(6)) 
in excess of $5,066,149,000 shall remain in the Fund and shall not be 
available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           operating expenses

      For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for asset management activities; utilization of excess and 
disposal of surplus personal property; transportation management 
activities; procurement and supply management activities; Government-
wide and internal responsibilities relating to automated data 
management, telecommunications, information resources management, and 
related activities; utilization survey, deed compliance inspection, 
appraisal, environmental and cultural analysis, and land use planning 
functions pertaining to excess and surplus real property; agency-wide 
policy direction; Board of Contract Appeals; accounting, records 
management, and other support services incident to adjudication of 
Indian Tribal Claims by the United States Court of Federal Claims; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $5,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; $119,091,000.

                       office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $33,274,000: Provided, That not to 
exceed $5,000 shall be available for payment for information and 
detection of fraud against the Government, including payment for 
recovery of stolen Government property: Provided further, That not to 
exceed $2,500 shall be available for awards to employees of other 
Federal agencies and private citizens in recognition of efforts and 
initiatives resulting in enhanced Office of Inspector General 
effectiveness.

            allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958, as 
amended (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138; $2,181,000: 
Provided, That the Administrator of General Services shall transfer to 
the Secretary of the Treasury such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of such Acts.

           general provisions--general services administration

    Section 1. The appropriate appropriation or fund available to the 
General Services Administration shall be credited with the

[[Page 109 STAT. 486]]

cost of operation, protection, maintenance, upkeep, repair, and 
improvement, included as part of rentals received from Government 
corporations pursuant to law (40 U.S.C. 129).
    Sec. 2. Funds available to the General Services Administration shall 
be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 3. Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 1996 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to meet 
program requirements. Any proposed transfers shall be approved in 
advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate.
    Sec. 4. No funds made available by this Act shall be used to 
transmit a fiscal year 1997 request for United States Courthouse 
construction that does not meet the standards for construction as 
established by the General Services Administration, the Judicial 
Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management and Budget 
and does not reflect the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved five-year construction plan.
    Sec. 5. <<NOTE: Telecommuting. 40 USC 490h.>> The Administrator of 
General Services is authorized to accept and retain income received by 
the General Services Administration on or after October 1, 1993, from 
Federal agencies and non-Federal sources, to defray costs directly 
associated with the functions of flexiplace work telecommuting centers.

    Sec. 6. <<NOTE: Telecommuting. Maryland.>> Of the $11,000,000 made 
available by this Act and Public Laws 102-393 and 103-123 for flexiplace 
work telecommuting centers, not less than $2,200,000 shall be available 
for immediate transfer to the Charles County Community College, to 
provide facilities, equipment, and other services to the General 
Services Administration for the purposes of establishing telecommuting 
work centers in Southern Maryland (Charles, Calvert, and St. Mary's 
County) for use by Government agencies designated by the Administrator 
of General Services: Provided, That the language providing authority to 
pay a public entity in the State of Maryland, not to exceed $1,300,000 
for the purpose of establishing telecommuting work centers in Southern 
Maryland, under the heading ``Federal Buildings Fund Limitations on 
Availability of Revenue'' in Public Law 103-329 (108 Stat. 2400), is 
hereby repealed.
      Sec. 7. Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other Act, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and thereafter, no 
funds may be obligated or expended in any way for the purpose of the 
sale, excessing, surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of 
Norfolk Lake, Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, 
Department of the Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.
      Sec. 8. Notwithstanding any provision of this or any other Act, 
during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, and thereafter, no 
funds may be obligated or expended in any way for the purpose of the 
sale, excessing, surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of 
Bull Shoals Lake, Arkansas, administered by the Corps of Engineers, 
Department of the Army, without the specific approval of the Congress.

    Sec. 9. Section 17(c) of Public Law 101-136 <<NOTE: 103 Stat. 
805.>> is amended by--
            (a) striking ``within 3 years of date of conveyance,'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof, ``simultaneously''; and by striking 
        the remainder of the first sentence following, ``the islands of 
        Hawaii,

[[Page 109 STAT. 487]]

        Oahu, and Molokai'' and inserting a period immediately 
        thereafter; and
            (b) in paragraph (2) by striking ``in the exchange described 
        in subsection (c)(1)'' and inserting, ``or recreational'' 
        immediately after the word, ``educational''.

           John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board

    For necessary expenses to carry out the John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, $2,150,000.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                          salaries and expenses

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 and 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia 
and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and direct procurement 
of survey printing, $24,549,000, together with not to exceed $2,430,000 
for administrative expenses to adjudicate retirement appeals to be 
transferred from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in 
amounts determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and records and related activities, as provided by 
law, and for expenses necessary for the review and declassification of 
documents, and for the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $199,633,000, 
of which $4,500,000 shall be available until expended for cataloging, 
archiving and digitizing activities: Provided, That the Archivist of the 
United States is authorized to use any excess funds available from the 
amount borrowed for construction of the National Archives facility, for 
expenses necessary to move into the facility.

             archives facilities and presidential libraries

                         repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities 
and presidential libraries, $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

         National Historical Publications and Records Commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, as 
amended, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended.

[[Page 109 STAT. 488]]

                       Office of Government Ethics

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as 
amended by Public Law 100-598, and the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, Public 
Law 101-194, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 for official 
reception and representation expenses; $7,776,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978 
and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, medical examinations performed for veterans 
by private physicians on a fee basis, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and representation expenses, 
and advances for reimbursements to applicable funds of the Office of 
Personnel Management and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
expenses incurred under Executive Order 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; $88,000,000, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be made 
available for the establishment of health promotion and disease 
prevention programs for Federal employees and in addition $102,536,000 
for administrative expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate 
trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management without regard to 
other statutes, including direct procurement of health benefits 
printing, for the retirement and insurance programs, of which 
$11,300,000 shall be transferred at such times as the Office of 
Personnel Management deems appropriate, and shall remain available until 
expended for the costs of automating the retirement recordkeeping 
systems, together with remaining amounts authorized in previous Acts for 
the recordkeeping systems: Provided, That the provisions of this 
appropriation shall not affect the authority to use applicable trust 
funds as provided by section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States 
Code: Provided further, That, except as may be consistent with 5 U.S.C. 
8902a(f)(1) and (i), no payment may be made from the Employees Health 
Benefits Fund to any physician, hospital, or other provider of health 
care services or supplies who is, at the time such services or supplies 
are provided to an individual covered under chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, excluded, pursuant to section 1128 or 1128A of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7-1320a-7a), from participation in 
any program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 
et seq.): Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of the 
Office of Personnel Management established pursuant to Executive Order 
9358 of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit

[[Page 109 STAT. 489]]

of like purpose: Provided further, That the President's Commission on 
White House Fellows, established by Executive Order 11183 of October 3, 
1964, may, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, accept 
donations of money, property, and personal services in connection with 
the development of a publicity brochure to provide information about the 
White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be accepted for 
travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the salaries of 
employees of such Commission.

                       office of inspector general

                          salaries and expenses

                   (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act, as 
amended, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles: $4,009,000, and in addition, not to exceed 
$6,181,000 for administrative expenses to audit the Office of Personnel 
Management's retirement and insurance programs, to be transferred from 
the appropriate trust funds of the Office of Personnel Management, as 
determined by the Inspector General: Provided, <<NOTE: Rent.>> That the 
Inspector General is authorized to rent conference rooms in the District 
of Columbia and elsewhere.

      government payment for annuitants, employees health benefits

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to retired 
employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 
and the Retired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849), as 
amended, $3,746,337,000 to remain available until expended.

       government payment for annuitants, employee life insurance

    For payment of Government contributions with respect to employees 
retiring after December 31, 1989, as required by chapter 87 of title 5, 
United States Code, such sums as may be necessary.

         payment to civil service retirement and disability fund

    For financing the unfunded liability of new and increased annuity 
benefits becoming effective on or after October 20, 1969, as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 8348, and annuities under special Acts to be credited to the 
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, such sums as may be 
necessary: Provided,  <<NOTE: 33 USC 776.>> That annuities authorized by 
the Act of May 29, 1944, as amended, and the Act of August 19, 1950, as 
amended (33 U.S.C. 771-75), may hereafter be paid out of the Civil 
Service Retirement and Disability Fund.

           General Provisions--Office of Personnel Management

      Section 1. Section 1104 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--

[[Page 109 STAT. 490]]

                          (i) by inserting after ``title'' the 
                      following: ``, the cost of which examinations 
                      shall be reimbursed by payments from the agencies 
                      employing such judges to the revolving fund 
                      established under section 1304(e)''; and
                          (ii) by striking the semicolon at the end of 
                      paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof a 
                      period; and
                    (B) by striking the matter following paragraph (2) 
                through ``principles.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b) by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(4) At the request of the head of an agency to whom a 
        function has been delegated under subsection (a)(2), the Office 
        may provide assistance to the agency in performing such 
        function. Such assistance shall, to the extent determined 
        appropriate by the Director of the Office, be performed on a 
        reimbursable basis through the revolving fund established under 
        section 1304(e).''.

    Sec. 2. Subparagraph (B) of section 8348(a)(1) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``in making an allotment or assignment made 
        by an individual under section 8345(h) or 8465(b) of this 
        title,'' after ``law),''; and
            (2) by striking ``title 26;'' and inserting ``title 26 or 
        section 8345(k) or 8469 of this title;''.

    Sec. 3. Section 4(a) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act of 
1994 (Public Law 103-226; 108 Stat. 111) <<NOTE: 5 USC 8331 note.>> is 
amended--
            (1) by deleting ``Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995'' and inserting 
        in lieu thereof: ``Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments.--''; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (1)(A) by striking ``and before October 1, 
        1995,''.

    Sec. 4. Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the second section designated as section 3329 (as 
        added by section 4431(a) of Public Law 102-484)--
                    (A) by redesignating such section as section 3330; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end thereof the following new 
                subsection:

    ``(f) The Office may, to the extent it determines appropriate, 
charge such fees to agencies for services provided under this section 
and for related Federal employment information. The Office shall retain 
such fees to pay the costs of providing such services and 
information.''; and
            (2) <<NOTE: 5 USC prec. 3301.>> in the table of sections for 
        chapter 33 by amending the second item relating to section 3329 
        to read as follows:

``3330. Government-wide list of vacant positions.''.

    Sec. 5. Section 1 under the subheading ``General Provision'' under 
the heading ``Office of Personnel Management'' under title IV of the 
Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1992 
(Public Law 102-141; 105 Stat. 861; 5 U.S.C. 5941 note), as amended by 
section 532 of the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 1995 (Public Law 103-329; 108 Stat. 2413), is 
further amended by striking ``1996'' both places it appears and 
inserting in lieu thereof ``1998''.

[[Page 109 STAT. 491]]

                        Office of Special Counsel

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12), Public Law 103-424, and the 
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Act of 1994 (Public Law 
103-353), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of 
fees and expenses for witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; $7,840,000.

                         United States Tax Court

                          salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $33,269,000: Provided, 
That <<NOTE: 26 USC 7443 note.>>  travel expenses of the judges shall be 
paid upon the written certificate of the judge.

    This title may be cited as the ``Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1996''.

                       TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                                This Act

    Sec. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502. <<NOTE: Contracts. Public information.>> The expenditure 
of any appropriation under this Act for any consulting service through 
procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.

    Sec. 503. <<NOTE: Contracts. 40 USC 490c.>> None of the funds made 
available to the General Services Administration pursuant to section 
210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 
shall be obligated or expended after the date of enactment of this Act 
for the procurement by contract of any guard, elevator operator, 
messenger or custodial services if any permanent veterans preference 
employee of the General Services Administration at said date, would be 
terminated as a result of the procurement of such services, except that 
such funds may be obligated or expended for the procurement by contract 
of the covered services with sheltered workshops employing the severely 
handicapped under Public Law 92-28. Only if such workshops decline to 
contract for the provision of the covered services may the General 
Services Administration procure the services by competitive contract, 
for a period not to exceed 5 years. At such time as such competitive 
contract expires or is terminated for any reason, the General Services 
Administration shall again offer to contract for the services from a 
sheltered workshop prior to offering such services for competitive 
procurement.

[[Page 109 STAT. 492]]

    Sec. 504. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, or 
policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930.
    Sec. 505. None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for the purpose of transferring control over the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center located at Glynco, Georgia, and Artesia, New 
Mexico, out of the Treasury Department.
    Sec. 506. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States 
not heretofore authorized by the Congress.
    Sec. 507. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee of 
the United States Postal Service, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any officer or employee of the United 
        States Postal Service from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member or committee of 
        Congress in connection with any matter pertaining to the 
        employment of such officer or employee or pertaining to the 
        United States Postal Service in any way, irrespective of whether 
        such communication or contact is at the initiative of such 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member or committee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance of 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any officer or employee of the 
        United States Postal Service, or attempts or threatens to commit 
        any of the foregoing actions with respect to such officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        officer or employee with any Member or committee of Congress as 
        described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.

    Sec. 508. The Office of Personnel Management may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1996, accept donations of supplies, services, 
land and equipment for the Federal Executive Institute and Management 
Development Centers to assist in enhancing the quality of Federal 
management.
    Sec. 509. The United States Secret Service may, during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 1996, accept donations of money to off-set 
costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and spouses of former 
Presidents when the former President or spouse travels for the purpose 
of making an appearance or speech for a payment of money or any thing of 
value.
    Sec. 512. <<NOTE: 19 USC 2 note.>> Notwithstanding any provision of 
this or any other Act, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 1996, 
and thereafter, no funds may be obligated or expended in any way to 
withdraw the designation of the Virginia Inland Port at Front Royal, 
Virginia, as a United States Customs Service port of entry.

    Sec. 513. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and

[[Page 109 STAT. 493]]

has satisfactorily completed his period of active military or naval 
service and has within ninety days after his release from such service 
or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not 
more than one year made application for restoration to his former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management as 
still qualified to perform the duties of his former position and has not 
been restored thereto.
    Sec. 514. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide any non-public information such as mailing or telephone lists 
to any person or any organization outside of the Federal Government 
without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 515. Compliance With Buy American Act.--No funds appropriated 
pursuant to this Act may be expended by an entity unless the entity 
agrees that in expending the assistance the entity will comply with 
sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, 
popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 516. Sense of Congress; Requirement Regarding Notice.--(a) 
Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case of any 
equipment or products that may be authorized to be purchased with 
financial assistance provided under this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that entities receiving such assistance should, in expending 
the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
to each recipient of the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress.
    Sec. 517. Prohibition of Contracts.--If it has been finally 
determined by a court or Federal agency that any person intentionally 
affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any 
inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to 
the United States that is not made in the United States, such person 
shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with 
funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant to the debarment, 
suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in section 9.400 
through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 518. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end 
of fiscal year 1996 from appropriations made available for salaries and 
expenses for fiscal year 1996 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 1997 for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval  prior to the 
expenditure of such funds.
    Sec. 519. Where appropriations in this Act are expendable for travel 
expenses of employees and no specific limitation has been placed 
thereon, the expenditures for such travel expenses may not exceed the 
amount set forth therefore in the budget estimates submitted for 
appropriations without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That this section shall not 
apply to travel performed by uncompensated officials of local boards and 
appeal boards in the Selective Service System; to travel performed 
directly in connection with care and treatment of medical beneficiaries 
of the Department

[[Page 109 STAT. 494]]

of Veterans Affairs; to travel of the Office of Personnel Management in 
carrying out its observation responsibilities of the Voting Rights Act; 
or to payments to interagency motor pools separately set forth in the 
budget schedules.
    Sec. 520. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation: 
(1) The authority of the special police officers of the Bureau of 
Engraving and Printing, in the Washington, DC Metropolitan area, extends 
to buildings and land under the custody and control of the Bureau; to 
buildings and land acquired by or for the Bureau through lease, unless 
otherwise provided by the acquisition agency; to the streets, sidewalks 
and open areas immediately adjacent to the Bureau along Wallenberg Place 
(15th Street) and 14th Street between Independence and Maine Avenues and 
C and D Streets between 12th and 14th Streets; to areas which include 
surrounding parking facilities used by Bureau employees, including the 
lots at 12th and C Streets, SW, Maine Avenue and Water Streets, SW, 
Maiden Lane, the Tidal Basin and East Potomac Park; to the protection in 
transit of United States securities, plates and dies used in the 
production of United States securities, or other products or implements 
of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing which the Director of that 
agency so designates; (2) The exercise of police authority by Bureau 
officers, with the exception of the exercise of authority upon property 
under the custody and control of the Bureau, shall be deemed 
supplementary to the Federal police force with primary jurisdictional 
responsibility. This authority shall be in addition to any other law 
enforcement authority which has been provided to these officers under 
other provisions of law or regulations.
    Sec. 521. Section 5378 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding: ``(8) Chief--not more than the maximum rate payable 
for GS-14.''.
    Sec. 522. <<NOTE: 31 USC 5136.>> Subchapter III of chapter 51 of 
subtitle IV of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end thereof the following new section: ``sec. 5136. <<NOTE: Coins.>>  
united states mint public enterprise fund.''. There shall be established 
in the Treasury of the United States, a United States Mint Public 
Enterprise Fund (the ``Fund'') for fiscal year 1996 and hereafter: 
Provided, That all receipts from Mint operations and programs, including 
the production and sale of numismatic items, the production and sale of 
circulating coinage, the protection of Government assets, and gifts and 
bequests of property, real or personal shall be deposited into the Fund 
and shall be available without fiscal year limitations: Provided 
further, That all expenses incurred by the Secretary of the Treasury for 
operations and programs of the United States Mint that the Secretary of 
the Treasury determines, in the Secretary's sole discretion, to be 
ordinary and reasonable incidents of Mint operations and programs, and 
any expense incurred pursuant to any obligation or other commitment of 
Mint operations and programs that was entered into before the 
establishment of the Fund, shall be paid out of the Fund: Provided 
further, That not to exceed 6.2415 percent of the nominal value of the 
coins minted, shall be paid out of the Fund for the circulating coin 
operations and programs in fiscal year 1996 for those operations and 
programs previously provided for by appropriation: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of the Treasury may borrow such funds from the 
General Fund as may be necessary to meet existing liabilities and 
obligations incurred prior to the receipt of revenues

[[Page 109 STAT. 495]]

into the Fund: Provided further, That the General Fund shall be 
reimbursed for such funds by the Fund within one year of the date of the 
loan: Provided further, That the Fund may retain receipts from the 
Federal Reserve System from the sale of circulating coins at face value 
for deposit into the Fund (retention of receipts is for the circulating 
operations and programs): Provided further, That the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall transfer to the Fund all assets and liabilities of the 
Mint operations and programs, including all Numismatic Public Enterprise 
Fund assets and liabilities, all receivables, unpaid obligations and 
unobligated balances from the Mint's appropriation, the Coinage Profit 
Fund, and the Coinage Metal Fund, and the land and buildings of the 
Philadelphia Mint, Denver Mint, and the Fort Knox Bullion Depository: 
Provided further, That the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund, the 
Coinage Profit Fund and the Coinage Metal Fund shall cease to exist as 
separate funds as their activites and functions are subsumed under and 
subject to the Fund, and the requirements of 31 USC 5134(c)(4), 
(c)(5)(B), and (d) and (e) of the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund 
shall apply to the Fund: Provided further, That at such times as the 
Secretary of the Treasury determines appropriate, but not less than 
annually, any amount in the Fund that is determined to be in excess of 
the amount required by the Fund shall be transferred to the Treasury for 
deposit as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further, That the term 
``Mint operations and programs'' means (1) the activities concerning, 
and assets utilized in, the production, administration, distribution, 
marketing, purchase, sale, and management of coinage, numismatic items, 
the protection and safeguarding of Mint assets and those non-Mint assets 
in the custody of the Mint, and the Fund; and (2) includes capital, 
personnel salaries and compensation, functions relating to operations, 
marketing, distribution, promotion, advertising, official reception and 
representation, the acquisition or replacement of equipment, the 
renovation or modernization of facilities, and the construction or 
acquisition of new buildings: Provided further, That the term 
``numismatic item'' includes any medal, proof coin, uncirculated coin, 
bullion coin, numismatic collectible, other monetary issuances and 
products and accessories related to any such medal or coin: Provided 
further, That provisions of law governing procurement or public 
contracts shall not be applicable to the procurement of goods or 
services necessary for carrying out Mint programs and operations.

    Sec. 523. <<NOTE: 3 USC 102 note.>> Section 531 of Public Law 103-
329, is amended by inserting, ``of the first section'', after ``adding 
at the end''.
      Sec. 524. <<NOTE: Abortion.>> No funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or the administrative 
expenses in connection with any health plan under the Federal employees 
health benefit program which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions, after the last day of the contract currently in force for any 
such negotiated plan.
      Sec. 525. The provision of section 524 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or that the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

    Sec. 526. <<NOTE: 40 USC 759 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Administrator of General Services shall delegate 
the authority to procure automatic data processing equipment for the Tax 
Systems Modernization Program to the Secretary of the Treasury: 
Provided,

[[Page 109 STAT. 496]]

That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall have the 
authority to revoke such delegation upon the written recommendation of 
the Administrator that the Secretary's actions under such delegation are 
inconsistent with the goals of economic and efficient procurement and 
utilization of automatic data processing equipment: Provided further, 
That for all other purposes, a procurement conducted under such 
delegation shall be treated as if made under a delegation by the 
Administrator pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 759.

    Sec. 527.  <<NOTE: Postal service. 39 USC 3626 note.>> Relief of 
Certain Periodical Publications.--For mail classification purposes under 
section 3626 of title 39, United States Code, and any regulations of the 
United States Postal Service for the administration of that section, a 
weekly second-class periodical publication which--
            (i) is eligible to publish legal notices under any 
        applicable laws of the State where it is published;
            (ii) is eligible to be mailed at the rates for mail under 
        former subsection 4358 (a), (b), and (c) of title 39, United 
        States Code, as limited by current subsection 3626(g) of that 
        title; and
            (iii) the pages of which were customarily secured by 2 
        staples before March 19, 1989;

shall not be considered to be a bound publication solely because its 
pages continue to be secured by 2 staples after that date.
    Sec. 528. (a) Prior to February 15, 1996, none of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may, with respect to an individual employed by 
the Bureau of the Public Debt in the Washington metropolitan region on 
April 10, 1991, be used to separate, reduce the grade or pay of, or 
carry out any other adverse personnel action against such individual for 
declining to accept a directed reassignment to a position outside such 
region, pursuant to a transfer of any such Bureau's operations or 
functions to Parkersburg, West Virginia.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any individual 
who, prior to February 15, 1996, declines an offer of another position 
in the Department of the Treasury which is of at least equal pay and 
which is within the Washington metropolitan region.
    Sec. 529. Section 4 of the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 
1976, Public Law 94-524, <<NOTE: 18 USC 3056 note.>> is amended by 
striking ``$75,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``$200,000''.

    Sec. 530. No part of any appropriation made available in this Act 
shall be used to implement Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 
Ruling TD ATF-360; Re: Notice Nos. 782, 780, 91F009P.
    Sec. 531. Section 5542 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
adding the following new subsection at the end:
    ``(e) Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1) of this section, all hours 
of overtime work scheduled in advance of the administrative workweek 
shall be compensated under subsection (a) if that work involves duties 
as authorized by section 3056(a) of title 18, United States Code, and if 
the investigator performs, on that same day, at least 2 hours of 
overtime work not scheduled in advance of the administrative 
workweek.''.

[[Page 109 STAT. 497]]

               TITLE VI--GOVERNMENTWIDE GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

    Section  601. Funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of 
employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness 
of said employee.
    Sec. 602. <<NOTE: Drug-free workplace.>> No department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated funds under 
this or any other Act for fiscal year 1996 shall obligate or expend any 
such funds, unless such department, agency, or instrumentality has in 
place, and will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy 
designed to ensure that all of its workplaces are free from the illegal 
use, possession, or distribution of controlled substances (as defined in 
the Controlled Substances Act) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.

    Sec. 603. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1345, any agency, department or 
instrumentality of the United States which provides or proposes to 
provide child care services for Federal employees may reimburse any 
Federal employee or any person employed to provide such services for 
travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training 
classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision 
of such services: Provided, That any per diem allowance made pursuant to 
this section shall not exceed the rate specified in regulations 
prescribed pursuant to section 5707 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 604. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1343 note.>> Unless otherwise specifically 
provided, the maximum amount allowable during the current fiscal year in 
accordance with section 16 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (60 Stat. 810), 
for the purchase of any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, 
ambulances, law enforcement, and undercover surveillance vehicles), is 
hereby fixed at $8,100 except station wagons for which the maximum shall 
be $9,100: Provided, That these limits may be exceeded by not to exceed 
$3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not to exceed $4,000 for special 
heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this 
section may not be exceeded by more than five percent for electric or 
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration under the provisions of the 
Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act 
of 1976: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section may 
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles 
acquired pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles.

    Sec. 605. Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-24.
    Sec. 606. <<NOTE: 5 USC 3101 note.>> Unless otherwise specified 
during the current fiscal year no part of any appropriation contained in 
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any 
officer or employee of the Government of the United States (including 
any agency the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government 
of the United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United 
States unless such person (1) is a citizen of the United States, (2) is 
a person in the service of the United States on

[[Page 109 STAT. 498]]

the date of enactment of this Act who, being eligible for citizenship, 
has filed a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United 
States prior to such date and is actually residing in the United States, 
(3) is a person who owes allegiance to the United States, (4) is an 
alien from Cuba, Poland, South Vietnam, the countries of the former 
Soviet Union, or the Baltic countries lawfully admitted to the United 
States for permanent residence, (5) South Vietnamese, Cambodian, and 
Laotian refugees paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975, or 
(6) nationals of the People's Republic of China that qualify for 
adjustment of status pursuant to the Chinese Student Protection Act of 
1992: Provided, That for the purpose of this section, an affidavit 
signed by any such person shall be considered prima facie evidence that 
the requirements of this section with respect to his or her status have 
been complied with: Provided further, <<NOTE: Law enforcement and 
crime.>> That any person making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a 
felony, and, upon conviction, shall be fined no more than $4,000 or 
imprisoned for not more than one year, or both: Provided further, That 
the above penal clause shall be in addition to, and not in substitution 
for, any other provisions of existing law: Provided further, That any 
payment made to any officer or employee contrary to the provisions of 
this section shall be recoverable in action by the Federal Government. 
This section shall not apply to citizens of Ireland, Israel, the 
Republic of the Philippines or to nationals of those countries allied 
with the United States in the current defense effort, or to 
international broadcasters employed by the United States Information 
Agency, or to temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
employment in the field service (not to exceed sixty days) as a result 
of emergencies.

    Sec. 607. Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 749), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (87 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 608. <<NOTE: Recycling. Environmental protection.>> In addition 
to funds provided in this or any other Act, all Federal agencies are 
authorized to receive and use funds resulting from the sale of materials 
recovered through recycling or waste prevention programs. Such funds 
shall be available until expended for the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order 12873 
        (October 20, 1993), including any such programs adopted prior to 
        the effective date of the Executive Order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including but not limited to, the development and implementation 
        of hazardous waste management and pollution prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.

    Sec. 609. Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia;

[[Page 109 STAT. 499]]

services in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified 
under this head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by which 
they are made available: Provided, That in the event any functions 
budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently transferred to or 
paid from other funds, the limitations on administrative expenses shall 
be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 610. No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year 
contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the 
filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the 
Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
    Sec. 611. <<NOTE: Rent.>> Any department or agency to which the 
Administrator of General Services has delegated the authority to 
operate, maintain or repair any building or facility pursuant to section 
205(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 
as amended, shall retain that portion of the GSA rental payment 
available for operation, maintenance or repair of the building or 
facility, as determined by the Administrator, and expend such funds 
directly for the operation, maintenance or repair of the building or 
facility. Any funds retained under this section shall remain available 
until expended for such purposes.

    Sec. 612. Pursuant to section 1415 of the Act of July 15, 1952 (66 
Stat. 662), foreign credits (including currencies) owed to or owned by 
the United States may be used by Federal agencies for any purpose for 
which appropriations are made for the current fiscal year (including the 
carrying out of Acts requiring or authorizing the use of such credits), 
only when reimbursement therefor is made to the Treasury from applicable 
appropriations of the agency concerned: Provided, That such credits 
received as exchanged allowances or proceeds of sales of personal 
property may be used in whole or part payment for acquisition of similar 
items, to the extent and in the manner authorized by law, without 
reimbursement to the Treasury.
    Sec. 613. No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards, 
commissions, councils, committees, or similar groups (whether or not 
they are interagency entities) which do not have a prior and specific 
statutory approval to receive financial support from more than one 
agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 614. <<NOTE: Postal service. Law enforcement and crime.>> Funds 
made available by this or any other Act to the ``Postal Service Fund'' 
(39 U.S.C. 2003) shall be available for employment of guards for all 
buildings and areas owned or occupied by the Postal Service and under 
the charge and control of the Postal Service, and such guards shall 
have, with respect to such property, the powers of special policemen 
provided by the first section of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 
Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318), and, as to property owned or occupied by the 
Postal Service, the Postmaster General may take the same actions as the 
Administrator of General Services may take under the provisions of 
sections 2 and 3 of the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 
40 U.S.C. 318a, 318b), attaching thereto penal consequences under the 
authority and within the limits provided in section 4 of the Act of June 
1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318c).

    Sec. 615. None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this Act shall be used to implement, administer, or

[[Page 109 STAT. 500]]

enforce any regulation which has been disapproved pursuant to a 
resolution of disapproval duly adopted in accordance with the applicable 
law of the United States.
    Sec. 616. <<NOTE: Locality pay. 5 USC 5343 note.>> (a) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and except as otherwise 
provided in this section, no part of any of the funds appropriated for 
the fiscal year ending on September 30, 1996, by this or any other Act, 
may be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (1) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by section 617 of the Treasury, Postal 
        Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1995, until 
        the normal effective date of the applicable wage survey 
        adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 1996, in an 
        amount that exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade 
        and step of the applicable wage schedule in accordance with such 
        section 617; and
            (2) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 1996, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under paragraph (1) by more 
        than the sum of--
                    (A) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 1996 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (B) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 1996 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                overall average percentage of such payments which was 
                effective in fiscal year 1995 under such section.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which subsection (a) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
subsection (a) were subsection (a) applicable to such employee.
    (c) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> For the purposes of this section, the 
rates payable to an employee who is covered by this section and who is 
paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 1995, shall be 
determined under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel 
Management.

    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium pay 
for employees subject to this section may not be changed from the rates 
in effect on September 30, 1995, except to the extent determined by the 
Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with the purpose of this 
section.
    (e) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> This section shall apply with respect 
to pay for service performed after September 30, 1995.

    (f) For the purpose of administering any provision of law (including 
section 8431 of title 5, United States Code, and any rule or regulation 
that provides premium pay, retirement, life insurance, or any other 
employee benefit) that requires any deduction or contribution, or that 
imposes any requirement or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary 
or basic pay, the rate of salary or

[[Page 109 STAT. 501]]

basic pay payable after the application of this section shall be treated 
as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (g) Nothing in this section shall be considered to permit or require 
the payment to any employee covered by this section at a rate in excess 
of the rate that would be payable were this section not in effect.
    (h) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions to 
the limitations imposed by this section if the Office determines that 
such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or retention of 
qualified employees.
    Sec. 617. During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Government 
appointed by the President of the United States, holds office, no funds 
may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to furnish or 
redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, officer or 
employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for any such 
office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or redecoration is 
expressly approved by the Committees on Appropriations of the House and 
Senate. For the purposes of this section, the word ``office'' shall 
include the entire suite of offices assigned to the individual, as well 
as any other space used primarily by the individual or the use of which 
is directly controlled by the individual.
    Sec. 618. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, and/or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 619. <<NOTE: Telecommunications.>> Notwithstanding section 1346 
of title 31, United States Code, or Sec. 613 of this Act, funds made 
available for fiscal year 1996 by this or any other Act shall be 
available for the interagency funding of national security and emergency 
preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple 
Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as provided by Executive 
Order Numbered 12472 (April 3, 1984).

    Sec. 620. <<NOTE: 31 USC 1348 note.>> Notwithstanding any provisions 
of this or any other Act, during the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1996, and hereafter, any department, division, bureau, or office may use 
funds appropriated by this or any other Act to install telephone lines, 
and necessary equipment, and to pay monthly charges, in any private 
residence or private apartment of an employee who has been authorized to 
work at home in accordance with guidelines issued by the Office of 
Personnel Management: Provided, That the head of the department, 
division, bureau, or office certifies that adequate safeguards against 
private misuse exist, and that the service is necessary for direct 
support of the agency's mission.

    Sec. 621. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality for the salaries or expenses of any employee 
appointed to a position of a confidential or policy-determining 
character excepted from the competitive service pursuant to section 3302 
of title 5, United States Code, without a certification to the Office of 
Personnel Management from the head of the Federal department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing the Schedule C appointee that the 
Schedule C position was not

[[Page 109 STAT. 502]]

created solely or primarily in order to detail the employee to the White 
House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed services detailed to or from--
            (1) the Central Intelligence Agency;
            (2) the National Security Agency;
            (3) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
            (4) the offices within the Department of Defense for the 
        collection of specialized national foreign intelligence through 
        reconnaissance programs;
            (5) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the 
        Department of State;
            (6) any agency, office, or unit of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
        the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of 
        Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of the 
        Treasury, and the Department of Energy performing intelligence 
        functions; and
            (7) the Director of Central Intelligence.

    Sec. 622. <<NOTE: Drug-free workplace.>> No department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated funds under 
this or any other Act for fiscal year 1996 shall obligate or expend any 
such funds, unless such department, agency or instrumentality has in 
place, and will continue to administer in good faith, a written policy 
designed to ensure that all of its workplaces are free from 
discrimination and sexual harassment and that all of its workplaces are 
not in violation of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as 
amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

    Sec. 623. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act may be 
used to pay for the expenses of travel of employees, including employees 
of the Executive Office of the President, not directly responsible for 
the discharge of official governmental tasks and duties: Provided, That 
this restriction shall not apply to the family of the President, Members 
of Congress or their spouses, Heads of State of a foreign country or 
their designee(s), persons providing assistance to the President for 
official purposes, or other individuals so designated by the President.
    Sec. 624. <<NOTE: President. Certification. 5 USC 7301 
note.>> Notwithstanding any provision of law, the President, or his 
designee, must certify to Congress, annually, that no person or persons 
with direct or indirect responsibility for administering the Executive 
Office of the President's Drug-Free Workplace Plan are themselves 
subject to a program of individual random drug testing.

    Sec. 625. <<NOTE: Conservation. 42 USC 8256 note.>> (a) Beginning in 
fiscal year 1996 and thereafter, for each Federal agency, except the 
Department of Defense (which has separate authority), and except as 
provided in Public Law 102-393, title IV, section 13 (40 U.S.C. 490g) 
with respect to the Fund established pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 490(f), an 
amount equal to 50 percent of--
            (1) the amount of each utility rebate received by the agency 
        for energy efficiency and water conservation measures, which the 
        agency has implemented; and
            (2) the amount of the agency's share of the measured energy 
        savings resulting from energy-savings performance contracts,

[[Page 109 STAT. 503]]

may be retained and credited to accounts that fund energy and water 
conservation activities at the agency's facilities, and shall remain 
available until expended for additional specific energy efficiency or 
water conservation projects or activities, including improvements and 
retrofits, facility surveys, additional or improved utility metering, 
and employee training and awareness programs, as authorized by section 
152(f) of the Energy Policy Act (Public Law 102-486).
    (b) The remaining 50 percent of each rebate, and the remaining 50 
percent of the amount of the agency's share of savings from energy-
savings performance contracts, shall be transferred to the General Fund 
of the Treasury at the end of the fiscal year in which received.
      Sec. 627. <<NOTE: Employee training.>> (a) None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended for any employee 
training when it is made known to the Federal official having authority 
to obligate or expend such funds that such employee training--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988;
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace; or
            (6) includes content related to human immunodeficiency 
        virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) other than 
        that necessary to make employees more aware of the medical 
        ramifications of HIV/AIDS and the workplace rights of HIV-
        positive employees.
       (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or 
otherwise preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly 
upon the performance of official duties.

    Sec. 628. <<NOTE: Nondisclosure.>> No funds appropriated in this or 
any other Act for fiscal year 1996 may be used to implement or enforce 
the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Government or any 
other nondisclosure policy, form or agreement if such policy, form or 
agreement does not contain the following provisions: ``These 
restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with or 
otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights or liabilities created 
by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code 
(governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act 
(governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 
2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the 
Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, 
waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the 
Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 U.S.C. 421 et seq.) 
(governing disclosures that could expose confidential Government 
agents), and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may 
compromise the national security, including sections

[[Page 109 STAT. 504]]

641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 
4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 
783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions 
and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, a nondisclosure policy form or 
agreement that is to be executed by a person connected with the conduct 
of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity, other than an 
employee or officer of the United States Government, may contain 
provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such 
document is to be used. Such <<NOTE: Classified information.>>  form or 
agreement shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose 
any classified information received in the course of such activity 
unless specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. 
Such nondisclosure forms must also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
      Sec. 629. <<NOTE: Contracts. Telecommunications.>> (a) None of the 
funds appropriated by this or any other Act may be expended by any 
Federal Agency to procure any product or service that is subject to the 
provisions of Public Law 89-306 and that will be available under the 
procurement by the Administrator of General Services known as 
``FTS2000'' unless--
            (1) such product or service is procured by the Administrator 
        of General Services as part of the procurement known as 
        ``FTS2000''; or
            (2) that agency establishes to the satisfaction of the 
        Administrator of General Services that--
                    (A) that agency's requirements for such procurement 
                are unique and cannot be satisfied by property and 
                service procured by the Administrator of General 
                Services as part of the procurement known as 
                ``FTS2000''; and
                    (B) the agency procurement, pursuant to such 
                delegation, would be cost-effective and would not 
                adversely affect the cost-effectiveness of the FTS2000 
                procurement.
      (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> After July 31, 1996, subsection (a) 
shall apply only if the Administrator of General Services has reported 
that the FTS2000 procurement is producing prices that allow the 
Government to satisfy its requirements for such procurement in the most 
cost-effective manner.
      (c) <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Comptroller General of the United 
States shall conduct and deliver a comprehensive analysis of the cost to 
the Federal Government of all Federal agency telecommunications services 
and traffic, by agency, and provide such report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations by no later than May 31, 1996: Provided, 
That such report shall (1) identify which agencies are using FTS2000 
systems; (2) determine whether or not such usage is cost-effective; and 
(3) provide a comparison of telecommunication costs between agencies 
that use or do not use FTS2000.

    Sec. 630. (a) Section 4-607(18) of title 4 of the District of 
Columbia Code, is amended by inserting ``the United States Secret 
Service Uniformed Division, the United States Secret Service Division,'' 
after ``average pay of a member who was an officer or member of''.

[[Page 109 STAT. 505]]

    (b) Section 4-622 of title 4 of the District of Columbia Code, is 
amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(1)(A) by striking out ``Of the basis 
        upon which the annuity, relief, or retirement compensation being 
        received by such former member at the time of death was 
        computed'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``Of the adjusted 
        average pay of such former member'';
            (B) in subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii), by striking out ``The basis 
        upon which the former member's annuity at the time of death was 
        computed'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``The adjusted average 
        pay of the former member''; and
            (C) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by striking out the colon after 
        ``United States Secret Service Division'' through clause (iii) 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``, 75 percent of the adjusted 
        average pay of the former member, divided by the number of 
        eligible children; or''.
      Sec. 631. (a) Section 5402 of title 39, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (f) by striking out ``During the period 
        beginning January 1, 1985, and ending January 1, 1999, the'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``The''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)(1) by amending subparagraph (D) to 
        read as follows:
                    ``(D) <<NOTE: Alaska.>> have provided scheduled 
                service within the State of Alaska for at least 12 
                consecutive months with aircraft--
                          ``(i) up to 7,500 pounds payload capacity 
                      before being selected as a carrier of nonpriority 
                      bypass mail at an applicable intra-Alaska bush 
                      service mail rate; and
                          ``(ii) over 7,500 pounds payload capacity 
                      before being selected as a carrier of nonpriority 
                      bypass mail at the intra-Alaska mainline service 
                      mail rate.''.
      (b)(1) <<NOTE: Effective date. 39 USC 5402 note.>> Subject to 
paragraph (2), the amendment made by subsection (a) shall be effective 
on and after August 1, 1995.
      (2) Subparagraph (D) of section 5402(g)(1) title 39, United States 
Code (as in effect before the amendment made under subsection (a)), 
shall apply to a carrier, if such carrier--
            (A) has an application pending before the Department of 
        Transportation for approval under section 41102 or 41110(e) of 
        title 39, United States Code, before August 1, 1995; and
            (B) would meet the requirements of such subparagraph if such 
        application were approved and such certificate were purchased.
      (c) Section 41901(g) of title 49, United States Code, is repealed.

    Sec. 632. Limitation on use of Funds for the Provision of Certain 
Foreign Assistance.--
      (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none 
of the funds made available by this Act for the Department of the 
Treasury shall be available for any activity or for paying the salary of 
any Government employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to 
a Government employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, 
regulation, or policy that would permit the Secretary of the Treasury to 
make any loan or extension of credit under section 5302 of title 31, 
United States Code, with respect to a single foreign entity or 
government of a foreign country (including agencies or other entities of 
that government)--

[[Page 109 STAT. 506]]

            (1) with respect to a loan or extension of credit for more 
        than 60 days, unless the President certifies to the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives that--
                    (A) there is no projected cost (as that term is 
                defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act 
                of 1990) to the United States from the proposed loan or 
                extension of credit; and
                    (B) any proposed obligation or expenditure of United 
                States funds to or on behalf of the foreign government 
                is adequately backed by an assured source of repayment 
                to ensure that all United States funds will be repaid; 
                and
            (2) other than as provided by an Act of Congress, if that 
        loan or extension of credit would result in expenditures and 
        obligations, including contingent obligations, aggregating more 
        than $1,000,000,000 with respect to that foreign country for 
        more than 180 days during the 12-month period beginning on the 
        date on which the first such action is taken.
      (b) Waiver of Limitations.--The President may exceed the dollar 
and time limitations in subsection (a)(2) if he certifies in writing to 
the Congress that a financial crisis in that foreign country poses a 
threat to vital United States economic interests or to the stability of 
the international financial system.
      (c) Expedited Procedures for a Resolution of Disapproval.--A 
presidential certification pursuant to subsection (b) shall not take 
effect, if the Congress, within thirty calendar days after receiving 
such certification, enacts a joint resolution of disapproval, as 
described in paragraph (5) of this subsection.
            (1) Reference to committees.--All joint resolutions 
        introduced in the Senate to disapprove the certification shall 
        be referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban 
        Affairs, and in the House of Representatives, to the appropriate 
        committees.
            (2) Discharge of committees.--(A) If the committee of either 
        House to which a resolution has been referred has not reported 
        it at the end of 15 days after its introduction, it is in order 
        to move either to discharge the committee from further 
        consideration of the joint resolution or to discharge the 
        committee from further consideration of any other resolution 
        introduced with respect to the same matter, except no motion to 
        discharge shall be in order after the committee has reported a 
        joint resolution with respect to the same matter.
            (B) A motion to discharge may be made only by an individual 
        favoring the resolution, and is privileged in the Senate; and 
        debate thereon shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, the 
        time to be divided in the Senate equally between, and controlled 
        by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their 
        designees.
            (3) Floor consideration in the Senate.--(A) A motion in the 
        Senate to proceed to the consideration of a resolution shall be 
        privileged.
            (B) Debate in the Senate on a resolution, and all debatable 
        motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to 
        not more than 4 hours, to be equally divided between, and

[[Page 109 STAT. 507]]

        controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or 
        their designees.
            (C) Debate in the Senate on any debatable motion or appeal 
        in connection with a resolution shall be limited to not more 
        than 20 minutes, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
        by, the mover and the manager of the resolution, except that in 
        the event the manager of the resolution is in favor of any such 
        motion or appeal, the time in opposition thereto, shall be 
        controlled by the minority leader or his designee. Such leaders, 
        or either of them, may, from time under their control on the 
        passage of a resolution, allot additional time to any Senator 
        during the consideration of any debatable motion or appeal.
            (D) A motion in the Senate to further limit debate on a 
        resolution, debatable motion, or appeal is not debatable. No 
        amendment to, or motion to recommit, a resolution is in order in 
        the Senate.
            (4) In the case of a resolution, if prior to the passage by 
        one House of a resolution of that House, that House receives a 
        resolution with respect to the same matter from the other House, 
        then--
                    (A) the procedure in that House shall be the same as 
                if no resolution had been received from the other House; 
                but
                    (B) the vote on final passage shall be on the 
                resolution of the other House.
            (5) For purposes of this subsection, the term ``joint 
        resolution'' means only a joint resolution of the 2 Houses of 
        Congress, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as 
        follows: ``That the Congress disapproves the action of the 
        President under section 632(b) of the Treasury, Postal Service, 
        and General Government Appropriations Act, 1996, notice of which 
        was submitted to the Congress on         .'', with the blank 
        space being filled with the appropriate date.
      (d) Applicability.--This section--
            (1) shall not apply to any action taken as part of the 
        program of assistance to Mexico announced by the President on 
        January 31, 1995; and
            (2) shall remain in effect through fiscal year 1996.
      Sec. 633. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5303 note.>> For purposes of each 
provision of law amended by section 704(a)(2) of the Ethics Reform Act 
of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5318 note), no adjustment under section 5303 of title 
5, United States Code, shall be considered to have taken effect in 
fiscal year 1996 in the rates of basic pay for the statutory pay 
systems.

    Sec. 634. <<NOTE: Museum.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the United States Customs Service shall transfer, without 
consideration, to the National Warplane Museum in Geneseo, New York, 2 
seized and forfeited A-37 Dragonfly jets for display and museum 
purposes.
      Sec. 636. <<NOTE: Prohibition of Cigarette Sales to Minors in 
Federal Buildings and Lands Act. 40 USC 486 note.>> This section may be 
cited as the ``Prohibition of Cigarette Sales to Minors in Federal 
Buildings and Lands Act''.
      (a) As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``Federal agency'' means--
                    (A) an Executive agency as defined in section 105 of 
                title 5, United States Code; and
                    (B) each entity specified in subparagraphs (B) 
                through (H) of section 5721(1) of title 5, United States 
                Code;

[[Page 109 STAT. 508]]

            (2) the term ``Federal building'' means--
                    (A) any building or other structure owned in whole 
                or in part by the United States or any Federal agency, 
                including any such structure occupied by a Federal 
                agency under a lease agreement; and
                    (B) includes the real property on which such 
                building is located;
            (3) the term ``minor'' means an individual under the age of 
        18 years; and
            (4) the term ``tobacco product'' means cigarettes, cigars, 
        little cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff, and 
        chewing tobacco.
      (b)(1) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> No later than 45 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services and 
the head of each Federal agency shall promulgate regulations that 
prohibit--
            (A) the sale of tobacco products in vending machines located 
        in or around any Federal building under the jurisdiction of the 
        Administrator or such agency head; and
            (B) the distribution of free samples of tobacco products in 
        or around any Federal building under the jurisdiction of the 
        Administrator or such agency head.
      (2) The Administrator of General Services or the head of an 
agency, as appropriate, may designate areas not subject to the 
provisions of paragraph (1), if such area also prohibits the presence of 
minors.
      (3) The provisions of this subsection shall be carried out--
            (A) by the Administrator of General Services for any Federal 
        building which is maintained, leased, or has title of ownership 
        vested in the General Services Administration; or
            (B) by the head of a Federal agency for any Federal building 
        which is maintained, leased, or has title of ownership vested in 
        such agency.
      (c) <<NOTE: Reports.>> No later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services and each 
head of an agency shall prepare and submit, to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, a report that shall contain--
            (1) verification that the Administrator or such head of an 
        agency is in compliance with this section; and
            (2) a detailed list of the location of all tobacco product 
        vending machines located in Federal buildings under the 
        administration of the Administrator or such head of an agency.
      (d)(1) <<NOTE: Regulations.>> No later than 45 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Senate Committee on Rules and 
Administration and the House of Representatives Committee on House 
Oversight, after consultation with the Architect of the Capitol, shall 
promulgate regulations under the Senate and House of Representatives 
rulemaking authority that prohibit the sale of tobacco products in 
vending machines in the Capitol Buildings.
      (2) Such committees may designate areas where such prohibition 
shall not apply, if such area also prohibits the presence of minors.
      (3) For the purpose of this section the term ``Capitol Buildings'' 
shall have the same meaning as such term is defined under section 
16(a)(1) of the Act entitled ``An Act to define the area of the United 
States Capitol Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for other 
purposes'', approved July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193m(1)).

[[Page 109 STAT. 509]]

      (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting the 
authority of the Administrator of General Services or the head of an 
agency to limit tobacco product use in or around any Federal building, 
except as provided under subsection (b)(1).

    Sec. 637. <<NOTE: Taxes. 26 USC 7801 note.>> National Commission on 
Restructuring the Internal Revenue Service.--
      (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) While the budget for the Internal Revenue Service 
        (hereafter referred to as the ``IRS'') has risen from $2.5 
        billion in fiscal year 1979 to $7.3 billion in fiscal year 1996, 
        tax returns processing has not become significantly faster, tax 
        collection rates have not significantly increased, and the 
        accuracy and timeliness of taxpayer assistance has not 
        significantly improved.
            (2) To date, the Tax Systems Modernization (TSM) program has 
        cost the taxpayers $2.5 billion, with an estimated cost of $8 
        billion. Despite this investment, modernization efforts were 
        recently described by the GAO as ``chaotic'' and ``ad hoc''.
            (3) While the IRS maintains that TSM will increase 
        efficiency and thus revenues, Congress has had to appropriate 
        additional funds in recent years for compliance initiatives in 
        order to increase tax revenues.
            (4) Because TSM has not been implemented, the IRS continues 
        to rely on paper returns, processing a total of 14 billion 
        pieces of paper every tax season. This results in an extremely 
        inefficient system.
            (5) This lack of efficiency reduces the level of customer 
        service and impedes the ability of the IRS to collect revenue.
            (6) The present status of the IRS shows the need for the 
        establishment of a Commission which will examine the 
        organization of IRS and recommend actions to expedite the 
        implementation of TSM and improve service to taxpayers.
      (b) Composition of the Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--To carry out the purposes of this 
        section, there is established a National Commission on 
        Restructuring the Internal Revenue Service (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Commission'').
            (2) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 
        thirteen members, as follows:
                    (A) <<NOTE: President.>> Five members appointed by 
                the President, two from the executive branch of the 
                Government, two from private life, and one from an 
                organization that represents a substantial number of 
                Internal Revenue Service employees.
                    (B) Two members appointed by the Majority Leader of 
                the Senate, one from Members of the Senate and one from 
                private life.
                    (C) Two members appointed by the Minority Leader of 
                the Senate, one from Members of the Senate and one from 
                private life.
                    (D) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives, one from Members of the House 
                of Representatives and one from private life.
                    (E) Two members appointed by the Minority Leader of 
                the House of Representatives, one from Members of the 
                House of Representatives and one from private life.

[[Page 109 STAT. 510]]

    The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service shall be an ex 
officio member of the Commission.
            (3) Chairman.--The Commission shall elect a Chairman from 
        among its members.
            (4) Meeting; quorum; vacancies.--After its initial meeting, 
        the Commission shall meet upon the call of the Chairman or a 
        majority of its members. Seven members of the Commission shall 
        constitute a quorum. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
        affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner in 
        which the original appointment was made.
            (5) Appointment; initial meeting.--
                    (A) Appointment.--It is the sense of the Congress 
                that members of the Committee should be appointed not 
                more than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
                this section.
                    (B) Initial meeting.--If, after 60 days from the 
                date of the enactment of this section, seven or more 
                members of the Commission have been appointed, members 
                who have been appointed may meet and select a Chairman 
                who thereafter shall have the authority to begin the 
                operations of the Commission, including the hiring of 
                staff.
      (c) Functions of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The functions of the Commission shall be--
                    (A) to conduct, for a period of not to exceed one 
                year from the date of its first meeting, the review 
                described in paragraph (2), and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Reports.>> to submit to the Congress a 
                final report of the results of the review, including 
                recommendations for restructuring the IRS.
            (2) Review.--The Commission shall review--
                    (A) the present practices of the IRS, especially 
                with respect to--
                          (i) its organizational structure;
                          (ii) its paper processing and return 
                      processing activities;
                          (iii) its infrastructure; and
                          (iv) the collection process;
                    (B) requirements for improvement in the following 
                areas:
                          (i) making returns processing ``paperless'';
                          (ii) modernizing IRS operations;
                          (iii) improving the collections process 
                      without major personnel increases or increased 
                      funding;
                          (iv) improving taxpayer accounts management;
                          (v) improving the accuracy of information 
                      requested by taxpayers in order to file their 
                      returns; and
                          (vi) changing the culture of the IRS to make 
                      the organization more efficient, productive, and 
                      customer-oriented;
                    (C) whether the IRS could be replaced with a quasi-
                governmental agency with tangible incentives and 
                internally managing its programs and activities and for 
                modernizing its activities, and

[[Page 109 STAT. 511]]

                    (D) whether the IRS could perform other collection, 
                information, and financial service functions of the 
                Federal Government.
      (d) Powers of the Commission.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Commission or, on the authorization 
        of the Commission, any subcommittee or member thereof, may, for 
        the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section--
                    (i) hold such hearings and sit and act at such times 
                and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, 
                administer such oaths, and
                    (ii) require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
                attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the 
                production of such books, records, correspondence, 
                memoranda, papers, and documents, as the Commission or 
                such designated subcommittee or designated member may 
                deem advisable.
            (B) Subpoenas issued under subparagraph (A)(ii) may be 
        issued under the signature of the Chairman of the Commission, 
        the chairman of any designated subcommittee, or any designated 
        member, and may be served by any person designated by such 
        Chairman, subcommittee chairman, or member. The provisions of 
        sections 102 through 104 of the Revised Statutes of the United 
        States (2 U.S.C. 192-194) shall apply in the case of any failure 
        of any witness to comply with any subpoena or to testify when 
        summoned under authority of this section.
            (2) Contracting.--The Commission may, to such extent and in 
        such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts, enter into 
        contracts to enable the Commission to discharge its duties under 
        this section.
            (3) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission is 
        authorized to secure directly from any executive department, 
        bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent 
        establishment, or instrumentality of the Government, 
        information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics for the 
        purposes of this section. Each such department, bureau, agency, 
        board, commission, office, establishment, or instrumentality 
        shall, to the extent authorized by law, furnish such 
        information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics directly to 
        the Commission, upon request made by the Chairman.
            (4) Assistance from federal agencies.--(A) The Secretary of 
        the Treasury is authorized on a nonreimbursable basis to provide 
        the Commission with administrative services, funds, facilities, 
        staff, and other support services for the performance of the 
        Commission's functions.
            (B) The Administrator of General Services shall provide to 
        the Commission on a nonreimbursable basis such administrative 
        support services as the Commission may request.
            (C) In addition to the assistance set forth in subparagraphs 
        (A) and (B), departments and agencies of the United States are 
        authorized to provide to the Commission such services, funds, 
        facilities, staff, and other support services as they may deem 
        advisable and as may be authorized by law.
            (5) Postal services.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
      (e) Staff of the Commission.--

[[Page 109 STAT. 512]]

            (1) In general.--The Chairman, in accordance with rules 
        agreed upon by the Commission, may appoint and fix the 
        compensation of a staff director and such other personnel as may 
        be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its 
        functions, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
        States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, 
        and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no 
        rate of pay fixed under this subsection may exceed the 
        equivalent of that payable to a person occupying a position at 
        level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
        United States Code. Any Federal Government employee may be 
        detailed to the Commission without reimbursement from the 
        Commission, and such detailee shall retain the rights, status, 
        and privileges of his or her regular employment without 
        interruption.
            (2) Consultant services.--The Commission is authorized to 
        procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance 
        with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates 
        not to exceed the daily rate paid a person occupying a position 
        at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
      (f) Compensation and Travel Expenses.--
            (1) Compensation.--(A) Except as provided in subparagraph 
        (B), each member of the Commission may be compensated at not to 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in 
        effect for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
        during which that member is engaged in the actual performance of 
        the duties of the Commission.
            (B) Members of the Commission who are officers or employees 
        of the United States or Members of Congress shall receive no 
        additional pay on account of their service on the Commission.
            (2) Travel expenses.--While away from their homes or regular 
        places of business in the performance of services for the 
        Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same 
        manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government 
        service are allowed expenses under section 5703(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
      (g) Final Report of Commission; Termination.--
            (1) Final report.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the first meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit 
        to the Congress its final report, as described in subsection 
        (c)(2).
            (2) Termination.--(A) The Commission, and all the 
        authorities of this section, shall terminate on the date which 
        is 60 days after the date on which a final report is required to 
        be transmitted under paragraph (1).
            (B) The Commission may use the 60-day period referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) for the purpose of concluding its activities, 
        including providing testimony to committees of Congress 
        concerning its final report and disseminating that report.
      (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--Such sums as may be 
necessary are authorized to be appropriated for the activities of the 
Commission.

[[Page 109 STAT. 513]]

      (i) Appropriations.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, $1,000,000 shall be available from fiscal year 1996 funds 
appropriated to the Internal Revenue Service, ``Information systems'' 
account, for the activities of the Commission, to remain available until 
expended.
      Sec. 638. <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Administrator of General Services 
shall, within six months of enactment of this Act, report to Congress on 
the feasibility of leasing agreements with State and local governments 
and private sponsors for the construction of border stations on the 
borders of the United States with Canada and Mexico whereby--
            (1) lease payments shall not exceed 30 years for payment of 
        the purchase price and interest;
            (2) an agreement entered into under such provisions shall 
        provide for the title to the property and facilities to vest in 
        the United States on or before the expiration of the contract 
        term, on fulfillment of the terms and conditions of the 
        agreement.

    Sec. 639. Transfer of Certain Federal Property in New Jersey.--The 
first section of the Act entitled ``An Act transferring certain Federal 
property to the city of Hoboken, New Jersey'', approved September 27, 
1982 (Public Law 97-268; 96 Stat. 1140), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding ``and'' at the end; and
            (2) by striking ``Stat. 220), and'' in subsection (b) and 
        all that follows through ``New Jersey; concurrent with'' and 
        inserting the following: ``Stat. 220);

concurrent with''.
      Sec. 640. <<NOTE: 5 USC 8401 note.>> Service performed during the 
period January 1, 1984, through December 31, 1986, which would, if 
performed after that period, be considered service as a law enforcement 
officer, as defined in section 8401(17) (A)(i)(II) and (B) of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be deemed service as a law enforcement officer 
for the purposes of chapter 84 of such title.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1996''.

    Approved November 19, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2020:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 104-183 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 104-291 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-121 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            July 18, 19, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 5, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 15, House agreed to conference report; disagreed to 
                Senate amendment. Senate agreed to conference report; 
                receded from its amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 31 (1995):
            Nov. 19, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>