[104th Congress Public Law 215]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ215.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3018]]

Public Law 104-215
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Crawford National 
    Fish Hatchery to the city of Crawford, Nebraska. <<NOTE: Oct. 1, 
                         1996 -  [H.R. 3287]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Crawford 
National Fish Hatchery Conveyance Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Crawford National Fish Hatchery 
Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF CRAWFORD NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY TO THE CITY OF 
            CRAWFORD, NEBRASKA.

    (a) Conveyance Requirement.--Within 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the 
city of Crawford, Nebraska, without reimbursement, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the property described in 
subsection (b), for use by the city for a city park and other public 
recreational purposes.
    (b) Property Described.--The property referred to in subsection (a) 
is the property known as the Crawford National Fish Hatchery, located in 
the city of Crawford, Nebraska, consisting of 5.95 acres (more or less), 
and all improvements and related personal property under the control of 
the Secretary that is located on that property, including buildings, 
structures, equipment, and all easements, leases, and water rights 
relating to that property.
    (c) Use and Reversionary Interest.--If any of the property conveyed 
to the city of Crawford, Nebraska, under this section is used by the 
city for any purpose other than the uses authorized under subsection 
(a), all right, title, and interest in and to all property conveyed 
under this section shall revert to the United States. The city of 
Crawford, Nebraska, shall ensure that all property that reverts to the 
United States under this subsection is in substantially the same or 
better condition as at the time of conveyance to the city.

    Approved October 1, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3287:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-700 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            July 30, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>