[104th Congress Public Law 328]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ328.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 4004]]

Public Law 104-328
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations to 
    continue in existence, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 19, 
                          1996 -  [S. 2198]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
<<NOTE: 42 USC prec. 4271 note.>>     Section 1. (a) Notwithstanding the 
provision under the heading ``advisory commission on intergovernmental 
relations'' under title IV of the Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-52; 109 Stat. 480), 
the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations may continue in 
existence solely for the purpose of performing any contract entered into 
under section 7(a) of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission Act 
(Public Law 104-169; 110 Stat. 1487). <<NOTE: Termination date.>>  The 
Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations shall terminate on 
the date of the completion of such contract.

    (b) The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations and 
employees of the Commission who are considered to be Federal employees 
under section 6(e) of Public Law 96-380 (42 U.S.C. 4276(e)) shall make 
contributions to and participate in Federal health insurance, life 
insurance, and retirement programs to the same extent and in the same 
manner as before the date of enactment of this section. The Commission 
shall make any such contributions from funds received through contracts.
    Sec. 2. Section 615 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and 
State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 
(contained in Pub. L. No. 104-208) <<NOTE: Ante, p. 3009.>>  is amended 
by deleting ``and `Community Oriented Policing Services Program' '' and 
by deleting ``and part Q of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968''. <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect upon enactment.

    Approved October 19, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2198:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Oct. 3, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 4, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>