[104th Congress Public Law 2]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ2.104]


[[Page 109 STAT. 45]]

Public Law 104-2
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To amend section 61h-6 of title 2, United States Code. <<NOTE: Feb. 9, 
                           1995 -  [S. 273]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 61h-6 of 
title 2; The Congress, Chapter 4--Officers and Employees of Senate and 
House of Representatives; United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:

``Sec. 61h-6. Appointment of consultants by Majority Leader, Minority 
                        Leader, Secretary of the Senate, and Legislative 
                        Counsel of the Senate; compensation

    ``(a) The Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, are each 
authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than four 
individual consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily 
rate of compensation not in excess of the per diem equivalent of the 
highest gross rate of annual compensation which may be paid to employees 
of a standing committee of the Senate. The Secretary of the Senate is 
authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than two 
individual consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily 
rate of compensation not in excess of the per diem equivalent of the 
highest gross rate of annual compensation which may be paid to employees 
of a standing committee of the Senate. The Legislative Counsel of the 
Senate (subject to the approval of the President pro tempore) is 
authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of not more than two 
consultants, on a temporary or intermittent basis, at a daily rate of 
compensation not in excess of that specified in the first sentence of 
this section. The provisions of section 8344 of title 5 shall not apply 
to any individual serving in a position under this authority. 
Expenditures under this authority shall be paid from the contingent fund 
of the Senate upon vouchers approved by the President pro tempore, 
Majority Leader, Minority Leader, Secretary of the Senate, or 
Legislative Counsel of the Senate, as the case may be.

[[Page 109 STAT. 46]]

    ``(b) The Majority Leader, and the Minority Leader, in appointing 
individuals to consultant positions under authority of this section, may 
appoint one such individual to such position at an annual rate of 
compensation rather than at a daily rate of compensation, but such 
annual rate shall not be in excess of the highest gross rate of annual 
compensation which may be paid to employees of a standing committee of 
the Senate.''.

    Approved February 9, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 273:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            Jan. 24, considered and passed Senate.
            Jan. 27, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>