[112th Congress Public Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 23]]

Public Law 112-6
112th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2011, and for 
                                 other 
          purposes. <<NOTE: Mar. 18, 2011 -  [H.J. Res. 48]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That <<NOTE: Additional 
Continuing Appropriations Amendments, 2011.3Ante, p. 6.>>  the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 111-242) is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking the date specified in section 106(3) and 
        inserting ``April 8, 2011''; and
            (2) by adding after section 226, as added by the Further 
        Continuing Appropriations Amendments, 2011 (Public Law 112-4), 
        the following new sections:

    ``Sec. 227.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Agricultural Programs--Agricultural Research Service--Salaries and 
Expenses' at a rate for operations of $1,135,501,000.
    ``Sec. 228.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Agricultural Programs--Agricultural Research Service--Buildings and 
Facilities' at a rate for operations of $0.
    ``Sec. 229.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Agricultural Programs--National Institute of Food and Agriculture--
Research and Education Activities' at a rate for operations 
of <<NOTE: Applicability.>> 665,345,000: Provided, That the amounts 
included under such heading in Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to 
funds appropriated by this Act by substituting `$0' for `$89,029,000' 
and `$11,253,000' for `$45,122,000'.

    ``Sec. 230.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Agricultural Programs--National Institute of Food and Agriculture--
Extension Activities' at a rate for operations of $483,092,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts included under such 
heading in Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to funds appropriated by 
this Act by substituting `$8,565,000' for `$20,396,000'.

    ``Sec. 231.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Agricultural Programs--Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service--
Salaries and Expenses' at a rate for operations of $880,543,000.
    ``Sec. 232.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Conservation Programs--Natural Resources Conservation Service--
Conservation Operations' at a rate for operations of $850,247,000.
    ``Sec. 233.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Conservation Programs--Natural Resources Conservation Service--
Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations' at a rate for operations of 
$0: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts included under 
such heading in Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to funds appropriated 
by this Act by substituting `$0' for `$12,000,000'.

[[Page 125 STAT. 24]]

    ``Sec. 234.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Rural Development Programs--Rural Housing Service--Rural Housing 
Insurance Fund Program Account' for the cost of direct and guaranteed 
loans, including the cost of modifying loans, at a rate for operations 
of $70,200,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts 
included under such heading in Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to 
funds appropriated by this Act by substituting `$70,200,000' for 
`$40,710,000' in the case of direct loans and `$0' for `$172,800,000' in 
the case of unsubsidized guaranteed loans.

    ``Sec. 235.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Rural Development Programs--Rural Business-Cooperative Service--Rural 
Cooperative Development Grants' at a rate for operations of $31,754,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts included under such 
heading in Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to funds appropriated by 
this Act by substituting `$0' for `$300,000' and `$0' for `$2,800,000'.

    ``Sec. 236.  <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Sections 718, 723, 727, 728, 
and 738 of Public Law 111-80 shall be applied to funds appropriated by 
this Act by substituting `$0' for each of the dollar amounts specified 
in those sections.

    ``Sec. 237.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--International Trade Administration--Operations 
and Administration' at a rate for operations of $450,989,000: Provided, 
That the sixth proviso under such heading in division B of Public Law 
111-117 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 238.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--Minority Business Development Agency--Minority 
Business Development' at a rate for operations of $30,400,000: Provided, 
That the first proviso under such heading in division B of Public Law 
111-117 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 239.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--National Institute of Standards and 
Technology--Scientific and Technical Research and Services' at a rate 
for operations of $504,500,000: Provided, That the second proviso under 
such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 240.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--National Institute of Standards and 
Technology--Construction of Research Facilities' at a rate for 
operations of $100,000,000: Provided, That the first proviso under such 
heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 241.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration--Operations, Research, and Facilities' at a rate for 
operations of $3,205,883,000: Provided, That the sixth proviso under 
such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 242.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration--Procurement, Acquisition and Construction' at a rate for 
operations of $1,340,353,000: Provided, That the sixth proviso under 
such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated by this Act.

[[Page 125 STAT. 25]]

    ``Sec. 243.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Justice--Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law 
Enforcement Assistance' at a rate for operations of $1,349,500,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amount included in paragraph 
(4) under such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this Act by substituting `$0' for 
`$185,268,000'.

    ``Sec. 244.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Justice--Office of Justice Programs--Juvenile Justice 
Programs' at a <<NOTE: Applicability.>> rate for operations of 
$332,500,000: Provided, That the amount included in paragraph (2) under 
such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall be applied to 
funds appropriated by this Act by substituting `$0' for `$91,095,000'.

    ``Sec. 245.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Justice--Community Oriented Policing Services' at a rate 
for operations of $597,500,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That 
the amounts included under such heading in division B of Public Law 111-
117 shall be applied to funds appropriated by this Act as follows: in 
paragraph (2), by substituting `$15,000,000' for `$40,385,000' and by 
substituting `$0' for `$25,385,000'; and in paragraph (3), by 
substituting `$1,500,000' for `$170,223,000' and by substituting `$0' 
for `$168,723,000'.

    ``Sec. 246.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`National Aeronautics and Space Administration--Cross Agency Support' at 
a rate for operations of $3,131,000,000: Provided, That the third 
proviso under such heading in division B of Public Law 111-117 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 247.  Of <<NOTE: Rescission.>> the funds made available for 
`Department of Commerce--Bureau of the Census--Periodic Censuses and 
Programs' in division B of Public Law 111-117, $1,740,000,000 is 
rescinded.

    ``Sec. 248.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Commerce--National Telecommunications and Information 
Administration--Public Telecommunications Facilities, Planning and 
Construction' at a rate for operations of $0.
    ``Sec. 249.  <<NOTE: Rescission.>> Of the unobligated balances 
available for `Emergency Steel, Oil, and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program 
Account', $48,000,000 is rescinded.

    ``Sec. 250.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Treasury--Community Development Financial 
Institutions Fund Program Account' at a rate for operations of 
$243,600,000, and the funding designation of $3,150,000 for an 
additional pilot project grant under such heading in division C of 
Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 251.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Executive Office of the President and Funds Appropriated to the 
President--Office of National Drug Control Policy--Other Federal Drug 
Control Programs' at a rate for operations of $152,150,000, and the 
matter under such heading in division C of Public Law 111-117 relating 
to the National Drug Court Institute and the National Alliance for Model 
State Drug Laws shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 252.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`District of Columbia--Federal Funds--Federal Payment to the Office of 
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia' at a rate for 
operations of $0.

[[Page 125 STAT. 26]]

    ``Sec. 253.  Notwithstanding section 101, the aggregate amount of 
new obligational authority provided under the heading `General Services 
Administration--Real Property Activities--Federal Buildings Fund--
Limitations on Availability of Revenue' for Federal buildings and 
courthouses and other purposes of the Fund shall be available at a rate 
for operations of $7,519,772,000, of which: (1) $0 is for `Construction 
and Acquisition'; and (2) $284,000,000 is for `Repairs and Alterations' 
for Special Emphasis Programs and Basic Repairs and Alterations.
    ``Sec. 254.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`General Services Administration--General Activities--Operating 
Expenses' at a rate for operations of $71,881,000, and the matter 
relating to the amount of $1,000,000 under such heading in division C of 
Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 255.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`National Archives and Records Administration--Repairs and Restoration' 
at a rate for operations of $11,848,000.
    ``Sec. 256.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
section 523 of division C of Public Law 111-117 at a rate for operations 
of $0.
    ``Sec. 257.  Of <<NOTE: Rescission.>> the unobligated balances 
available for `Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Construction and Facilities Management' for construction 
projects, $106,556,000 is rescinded: Provided, That the amounts 
rescinded under this section shall be limited to amounts available for 
Border Patrol projects and facilities: Provided further, That no amounts 
in this section may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution 
on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.

    ``Sec. 258.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--Bureau of Land Management--Management of 
Lands and Resources' at a rate for operations of $957,971,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts included under such 
heading in division A of Public Law 111-88 shall be applied to funds 
appropriated by this Act by substituting ``$957,951,000'' for 
``$959,571,000'' the second place it appears.

    ``Sec. 259.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--Bureau of Land Management--Construction' at 
a rate for operations of $6,626,000.
    ``Sec. 260.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--Bureau of Land Management--Land 
Acquisition' at a rate for operations of $26,650,000: Provided, That the 
proviso under such heading in division A of Public Law 111-88 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 261.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Resource Management' at a rate for operations of $1,257,356,000.
    ``Sec. 262.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Construction' at a rate for operations of $27,139,000.
    ``Sec. 263.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Land Acquisition' at a rate for operations of $63,890,000.

[[Page 125 STAT. 27]]

    ``Sec. 264.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--National Park Service--National Recreation 
and Preservation' at a rate for operations of $57,986,000, of which $0 
shall be for projects authorized by section 7302 of Public Law 111-11.
    ``Sec. 265.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--National Park Service--Historic 
Preservation Fund' at a <<NOTE: Applicability.>> rate for operations of 
$54,500,000: Provided, That the amounts included under such heading in 
division A of Public Law 111-88 shall be applied to funds appropriated 
by this Act by substituting `$0' for `25,000,000': Provided further, 
That the proviso under such heading in division A of Public Law 111-88 
shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.

    ``Sec. 266.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--National Park Service--Construction' at a 
rate for operations of $185,066,000: Provided, That the last proviso 
under such heading in division A of Public Law 111-88 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated <<NOTE: Rescission.>>  by this Act: Provided further, 
That of the unobligated balances available under such heading in 
division A of Public Law 111-88 and prior appropriation Acts, 
$25,000,000 is rescinded, including $1,000,000 from amounts made 
available for the (now completed) project at Cape Hatteras National 
Seashore, North Carolina, and $1,000,000 from amounts made available for 
the (now completed) project at Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina.

    ``Sec. 267.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--National Park Service--Land Acquisition and 
State Assistance' at a rate for operations of $108,846,000.
    ``Sec. 268.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--United States Geological Survey--Surveys, 
Investigations, and Research' at a rate for operations of 
$1,094,344,000.
    ``Sec. 269.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--Bureau of Indian Affairs--Operation of 
Indian Programs' at a rate for operations of $2,334,515,000.
    ``Sec. 270.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of the Interior--Departmental Offices--Insular Affairs--
Assistance to Territories' at a rate for operations of $84,295,000.
    ``Sec. 271.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Environmental Protection Agency--Science and Technology' at a rate for 
operations of $840,349,000, of which $0 shall be for the purposes 
specified in `Research/National Priorities' under the heading `Science 
and Technology' in the joint explanatory statement of the managers 
accompanying Public Law 111-88.
    ``Sec. 272.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Environmental Protection Agency--Environmental Programs and Management' 
at a rate for operations of $2,963,263,000: Provided, That of the 
amounts provided by this Act for such account, amounts are provided for 
the Geographic Programs specified in the joint explanatory statement of 
the managers accompanying Public Law 111-88 at a rate for operations of 
$599,875,000: Provided further, That of the amounts provided by this Act 
for such account, $0 shall be for cap and trade technical assistance and 
$0 shall be for the program specified in `Environmental Protection/
National Priorities' under the heading `Environmental Programs

[[Page 125 STAT. 28]]

and Management' in the joint explanatory statement of the managers 
accompanying Public Law 111-88.
    ``Sec. 273.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Environmental Protection Agency--Buildings and Facilities' at a rate 
for operations of $36,501,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That 
the amounts included under such heading in division A of Public Law 111-
88 shall be applied to funds appropriated by this Act by substituting 
`$0' for `$500,000'.

    ``Sec. 274.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Environmental Protection Agency--State and Tribal Assistance Grants' at 
a rate for operations of $4,777,946,000: 
Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts included under such 
heading in division A of Public Law 111-88 shall be applied to funds 
appropriated by this Act as follows: by substituting `$14,500,000' for 
`$17,000,000'; by substituting `$10,000,000' for `$13,000,000'; by 
substituting `$0' for `$156,777,000'; by substituting `$0' for 
`$20,000,000'; and by substituting `$1,106,446,000' for 
`$1,116,446,000'.

    ``Sec. 275.  The matter pertaining to competitive grants to 
communities to develop plans and demonstrate and implement projects 
which reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the heading `Environmental 
Protection Agency--State and Tribal Assistance Grants' in division A of 
Public Law 111-88 shall not apply to funds appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 276.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Forest and Rangeland 
Research' at a rate for operations of $311,612,000.
    ``Sec. 277.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--State and Private Forestry' 
at a rate for operations of $301,611,000.
    ``Sec. 278.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--National Forest System' at a 
rate for operations of $1,550,089,000.
    ``Sec. 279.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Capital Improvement and 
Maintenance' at a rate for operations of $548,962,000.
    ``Sec. 280.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Land Acquisition' at a rate 
for operations of $33,184,000.
    ``Sec. 281.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire Management' at 
a <<NOTE: Rescission.>> rate for operations of $2,097,387,000: Provided, 
That of the unobligated balances available under such heading in 
division A of Public Law 111-88 and prior appropriation Acts, 
$200,000,000 is rescinded.

    ``Sec. 282.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
section 415 of division A of Public Law 111-88 at a rate for operations 
of $0.
    ``Sec. 283.  Notwithstanding section 101 and section 200, amounts 
are provided for `Department of Labor--Employment and Training 
Administration--Training and Employment Services' at a rate for 
operations of $3,654,641,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That 
the amounts included in paragraph (3)(E) under such heading in division 
D of Public Law 111-117 shall be applied to funds appropriated by this 
Act by substituting `$0' for `$125,000,000' and by substituting `$0' for 
`$65,000,000'.

[[Page 125 STAT. 29]]

    ``Sec. 284.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Labor--Employment and Training Administration--Community 
Service Employment for Older Americans' at a rate for operations of 
$600,425,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That for purposes of 
funds appropriated by this Act, the amounts included under such heading 
in division D of Public Law 111-117 shall be applied by substituting 
`$0' for `$225,000,000' in the first place it appears, and the first and 
second provisos under such heading in such division shall not apply.

    ``Sec. 285.  Notwithstanding sections 101 and 203, amounts are 
provided for `Department of Health and Human Services--Health Resources 
and Services Administration--Health Resources and Services' at a rate 
for operations of $7,001,520,000: Provided, That the eighteenth, 
nineteenth, twenty-second, and twenty-fifth provisos under such heading 
in division D of Public Law 111-117 shall not apply to funds 
appropriated by this Act.
    ``Sec. 286.  Notwithstanding section 101, in addition to amounts 
otherwise made available by section 130, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Health and Human Services--Office of the Secretary--
Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund' at a rate for 
operations of $731,109,000, of which $65,578,000 shall be for expenses 
necessary to prepare for and respond to an influenza pandemic (none of 
which shall be available past September 30, 2011) and $35,000,000 shall 
be for expenses necessary for fit-out and other costs related to a 
competitive lease procurement to renovate or replace the existing 
headquarters building for Public Health Service agencies and other 
components of the Department of Health and Human Services.
    ``Sec. 287.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Corporation for Public Broadcasting' at a rate for operations of 
$36,000,000: Provided, <<NOTE: Applicability.>> That the amounts 
included under such heading in division D of Public Law 111-117 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this Act by substituting `$0' for 
`$25,000,000' each place it appears.

    ``Sec. 288.  Of <<NOTE: Rescission.>> the funds appropriated for 
`Social Security Administration--Limitation on Administrative Expenses' 
for fiscal years 2010 and prior years (other than funds appropriated in 
Public Law 111-5) for investment in information technology and 
telecommunications hardware and software infrastructure, $200,000,000 is 
rescinded.

    ``Sec. 289.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`House of Representatives--Salaries and Expenses' at a rate for 
operations of $1,367,525,000.
    ``Sec. 290.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`House of Representatives--Salaries, Officers and Employees' at a rate 
for operations of $196,801,000, of which $129,282,000 shall be for the 
operations of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer.
    ``Sec. 291.  Notwithstanding section 101 and section 221, amounts 
are provided for `Library of Congress--Salaries and Expenses' at a rate 
for operations of $445,201,000, of which $0 shall be for the operations 
described in the fifth and seventh provisos under such heading in Public 
Law 111-68.
    ``Sec. 292.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Bilateral Economic Assistance--Funds Appropriated to the President--
International Fund for Ireland' at a rate for operations of $0.

[[Page 125 STAT. 30]]

    ``Sec. 293.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Housing and Urban Development--Community Planning and 
Development--Brownfields Redevelopment' at a rate for operations of $0.
    ``Sec. 294.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
`Department of Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--Railroad 
Safety Technology Program' at a rate for operations of $0.''.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Additional Continuing 
Appropriations Amendments, 2011''.

    Approved March 18, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 48:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Mar. 15, considered and passed House.
            Mar. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>