[112th Congress Public Law 77]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 1277]]

Public Law 112-77
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 Making appropriations for disaster relief requirements for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 
                         2011 -  [H.R. 3672]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Disaster Relief 
Appropriations Act, 2012.>>  That the following sums are appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, and for other purposes, namely:

                        TITLE I--DISASTER RELIEF

                     DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                   Federal Emergency Management Agency

                          disaster relief fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Disaster Relief Fund'' for major 
disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $6,400,000,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                        Corps of Engineers--Civil

                    mississippi river and tributaries

    For an additional amount for ``Mississippi River and Tributaries'' 
for necessary expenses for repair of damages to Federal projects 
resulting from a major disaster declared pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
seq.), $802,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided 
further, <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> That the Assistant Secretary of 
the Army for Civil Works shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a monthly 
report detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds, beginning

[[Page 125 STAT. 1278]]

not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        operation and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance'' for 
necessary expenses to dredge navigation channels in response to, and 
repair damage to Corps projects resulting from, a major disaster 
declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $534,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> 1985: Provided further, That 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a monthly report detailing the allocation and obligation of these 
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

                  flood control and coastal emergencies

    For an additional amount for ``Flood Control and Coastal 
Emergencies'', as authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 
(33 U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to prepare for flood, 
hurricane, and other natural disasters and support emergency operations, 
repair, and other activities as authorized by law, in response to a 
major disaster declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$388,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> 1985: Provided 
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a monthly report detailing the allocation 
and obligation of these funds, beginning not later than 60 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

               TITLE II--COMBATING WASTE, FRAUD, AND ABUSE

                     Social Security Administration

                  limitation on administrative expenses

    For an additional amount for continuing disability reviews under 
titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated 
with conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, not more than $483,484,000 may be expended, as 
authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any one 
or all of the trust funds referred to therein: Provided, That such 
amount is additional new budget authority specified for purposes of 
subsection 251(b)(2)(B) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, and shall be treated for such purposes as being 
included under this heading in the Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
or any continuing appropriation Act, for fiscal year 2012.

[[Page 125 STAT. 1279]]

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISION

    Sec. 301.  Each amount appropriated or made available in this Act is 
in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year 
involved.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 
2012''.

    Approved December 23, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3672:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Dec. 16, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>