[112th Congress Public Law 54]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 550]]

Public Law 112-54
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with 
  the Secretary of State, to establish a program to issue Asia-Pacific 
       Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 2011 -  [S. 1487]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011. 8 USC 1185 
note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
Business Travel Cards Act of 2011''.
SEC. 2. ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION BUSINESS TRAVEL CARDS.

    (a) In <<NOTE: Time period.>> General.--During the 7-year period 
ending on September 30, 2018, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, is authorized to issue Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards (referred to in this 
section as ``ABT Cards'') to any eligible person, including business 
leaders and United States Government officials who are actively engaged 
in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation business. An individual may not 
receive an ABT Card under this section unless the individual has been 
approved and is in good standing in an international trusted traveler 
program of the Department of Homeland Security.

    (b) Integration With Existing Travel Programs.--The Secretary of 
Homeland Security may integrate application procedures for, and 
issuance, suspension, and revocation of, ABT Cards with other 
appropriate international trusted traveler programs of the Department of 
Homeland Security.
    (c) Cooperation With Private Entities.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary of Homeland Security may consult with appropriate 
private sector entities.
    (d) Rulemaking.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, may prescribe such regulations as may be 
necessary to carry out this section, including regulations regarding 
conditions of or limitations on eligibility for an ABT Card.
    (e) Fee.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may--
                    (A) prescribe and collect a fee for the issuance of 
                ABT Cards; and
                    (B) adjust such fee to the extent the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary to comply with paragraph (2).

[[Page 125 STAT. 551]]

            (2) Limitation.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        ensure that the total amount of the fees collected under 
        paragraph (1) during any fiscal year is sufficient to offset the 
        direct and indirect costs associated with carrying out this 
        section during such fiscal year, including the costs associated 
        with establishing the program.
            (3) Account for collections.--There is established in the 
        Treasury of the United States an ``APEC Business Travel Card 
        Account'' into which the fees collected under paragraph (1) 
        shall be deposited as offsetting receipts.
            (4) Use of funds.--Amounts deposited into the APEC Business 
        Travel Card Account--
                    (A) shall be credited to the appropriate account of 
                the Department of Homeland Security for expenses 
                incurred in carrying out this section; and
                    (B) shall remain available until expended.

    (f) Termination of Program.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, may terminate activities under 
this section if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines such 
action to be in the interest of the United States.

    Approved November 12, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1487 (H.R. 2042):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 112-92 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Nov. 3, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 4, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>