[112th Congress Private Law 1]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 1]]

Private Law 112-1
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Sopuruchi Chukwueke. <<NOTE: Dec. 28, 2012 -  [S. 
                                 285]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the 
purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), 
Sopuruchi Chukwueke shall be deemed to have been lawfully admitted to, 
and remained in, the United States, and shall be eligible for adjustment 
of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) 
upon filing an application for such adjustment of status.
    (b) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsection (a) shall apply 
only if the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (c) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of 
permanent resident status to Sopuruchi Chukwueke, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the current or 
next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of the birth of Sopuruchi 
Chukwueke under section 202(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1152(a)(2)).
    (d) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters

[[Page 2]]

of Sopuruchi Victor Chukwueke shall not, by virtue of such relationship, 
be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

    Approved December 28, 2012.