[112th Congress Public Law 70]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 773]]

Public Law 112-70
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the conveyance of certain parcels of land to the town of 
           Mantua, Utah. <<NOTE: Dec. 19, 2011 -  [S. 683]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Box Elder Utah 
Land Conveyance Act.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Box Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act''.
SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Box 
        Elder Utah Land Conveyance Act'' and dated June 23, 2011.
            (2) National forest system land.--The term ``National Forest 
        System land'' means the approximately 31.5 acres of National 
        Forest System land in Box Elder County, Utah, that is generally 
        depicted on the map as parcels A, B, and C.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (4) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the town of Mantua, Utah.

    (b) Conveyance.--On <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the request of the Town 
submitted to the Secretary by the date that is not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to 
the Town, without consideration and by quitclaim deed, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the National Forest System 
land.

    (c) Survey; Costs.--
            (1) In general.--If determined by the Secretary to be 
        necessary, the exact acreage and legal description of the 
        National Forest System land shall be determined by a survey 
        approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Costs.--The Town shall pay the reasonable survey and 
        other administrative costs associated with the conveyance.

    (d) Use of National Forest System Land.--As a condition of the 
conveyance under subsection (b), the Town shall use the National Forest 
System land only for public purposes.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--In the quitclaim deed to the Town, the 
Secretary shall provide that the National Forest System land shall 
revert to the Secretary, at the election of the Secretary, if the 
National Forest System land is used for a purpose other than a public 
purpose.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--With respect to the conveyance 
under subsection (b), the Secretary may require such

[[Page 125 STAT. 774]]

additional terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

    Approved December 19, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 683:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 112-60 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Nov. 2, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 5, 7, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>