[115th Congress Public Law 45]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 131 STAT. 956]]

Public Law 115-45
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Capitol Police Board to make payments from the United 
 States Capitol Police Memorial Fund to employees of the United States 
Capitol Police who have sustained serious line-of-duty injuries, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 4, 2017 -  [H.R. 3298]>> 

    Be it enacted by <<NOTE: Wounded Officers Recovery Act of 2017.>>  
the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 2 USC 1901 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Wounded Officers Recovery Act of 
2017''.
SEC. 2. PAYMENTS FROM UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE MEMORIAL FUND 
                    FOR EMPLOYEES KILLED IN THE LINE OF DUTY OR 
                    SUSTAINING SERIOUS LINE-OF-DUTY INJURIES.

    (a) Authorizing Payments From Fund.--Section 2 of Public Law 105-223 
(2 U.S.C. 1952) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and certain other 
        united states capitol police employees'' before the period at 
        the end;
            (2) by striking ``Subject to the regulations'' and inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--Except to the extent used or reserved for use 
        under subsection (b) and subject to the regulations''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Payments for Employees Killed in the Line of Duty or 
Sustaining Serious Line-of-duty Injuries.--In addition to the amounts 
paid under subsection (a), and in accordance with the regulations issued 
under section 4(b), amounts in the Fund may be paid to--
            ``(1) families of employees of the United States Capitol 
        Police who were killed in the line of duty; or
            ``(2) employees of the United States Capitol Police who have 
        sustained serious line-of-duty injuries.''.

    (b) Regulations of Capitol Police Board.--Section 4 of Public Law 
105-223 (2 U.S.C. 1954) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Capitol Police Board'' and inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--The Capitol Police Board''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Regulations Governing Payments for Employees Killed in the 
Line of Duty or Sustaining Serious Line-of-duty Injuries.--In carrying 
out subsection (a), the Capitol Police Board shall issue specific 
regulations governing the use of the Fund for making payments to 
families of employees of the United States Capitol Police who were 
killed in the line of duty and employees of the United States Capitol 
Police who have sustained

[[Page 131 STAT. 957]]

serious line-of-duty injuries (as authorized under section 2(b)), 
including regulations--
            ``(1) establishing the conditions under which the family of 
        an employee or an employee is eligible to receive such a 
        payment;
            ``(2) providing for the amount, timing, and manner of such 
        payments; and
            ``(3) ensuring that any such payment is in addition to, and 
        does not otherwise affect, any other form of compensation 
        payable to the family of an employee or the employee, including 
        benefits for workers' compensation under chapter 81 of title 5, 
        United States Code.''.

    (c) Treatment of Amounts Received in Response to Incident of June 
14, 2017.--The second sentence of section 1 of Public Law 105-223 (2 
U.S.C. 1951) is amended by striking ``deposit into the Fund'' and 
inserting ``deposit into the Fund, including amounts received in 
response to the shooting incident at the practice for the Congressional 
Baseball Game for Charity on June 14, 2017,''.

    Approved August 4, 2017.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3298:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 163 (2017):
            July 24, considered and passed House.
            July 27, considered and passed Senate, amended. House 
                concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>