[115th Congress Public Law 204]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]


Public Law 115-204
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To extend the deadline for commencement of construction of a 
      hydroelectric project. <<NOTE: July 23, 2018 -  [H.R. 951]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION.

    (a) <<NOTE: Time period.>> In General.--Notwithstanding the time 
period specified in section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) 
that would otherwise apply to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
project numbered 12642, the Commission may, at the request of the 
licensee for the project, and after reasonable notice, in accordance 
with the good faith, due diligence, and public interest requirements of 
that section and the Commission's procedures under that section, extend 
the time period during which the licensee is required to commence the 
construction of the project for up to 3 consecutive 2-year periods from 
the date of the expiration of the extension originally issued by the 
Commission.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective dates.>> Reinstatement of Expired License.--If 
the period required for commencement of construction of the project 
described in subsection (a) has expired prior to the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commission may reinstate the license 
effective as of the date of its expiration and the first extension 
authorized under subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of such 
expiration.

    Approved July 23, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 951:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-172 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 163 (2017):
                                    June 12, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 164 (2018):
                                    June 28, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>