[115th Congress Public Law 177]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1375]]

                                     

[[Page 132 STAT. 1376]]

Public Law 115-177
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to furnish assistance for adaptations of residences of 
veterans in rehabilitation programs under chapter 31 of such title, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 1, 2018 -  [H.R. 3562]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. IMPROVEMENTS TO AUTHORITIES FOR PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE 
                              FOR ADAPTATIONS OF RESIDENCES OF 
                              VETERANS IN REHABILITATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 21 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2102A the following new section:
``Sec. 2102B. <<NOTE: 38 USC 2102b.>>  Adaptations to residences 
                    of veterans in rehabilitation programs

    ``(a) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  In General.--Subject to subsections 
(b) and (c), the Secretary may assist a veteran who is entitled to 
services and assistance under chapter 31 of this title and is pursuing a 
rehabilitation program under such chapter in acquiring such adaptations 
to such veteran's residence as are determined necessary by the Secretary 
to accomplish the purposes of such rehabilitation program.

    ``(b) Amount.--(1) The aggregate amount of assistance available to a 
veteran under subsection (a) may not exceed $77,307. <<NOTE: Waiver 
authority. Determination.>>  The Secretary may waive this limitation for 
a veteran if the Secretary determines a waiver is necessary for the 
rehabilitation program of the veteran.

    ``(2) <<NOTE: Effective dates.>>  Effective on October 1 of each 
year (beginning in 2017), the Secretary shall increase the amount 
described in paragraph (1) by the percentage calculated under section 
2102(e)(2) of this title.

    ``(3) <<NOTE: Effective date. Reports.>>  Beginning on October 1, 
2019, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs 
of the Senate and House of Representatives a biennial report on the use 
of the waiver authority under paragraph (1).

    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(d) Rehabilitation Program Defined.--In this section, the term 
`rehabilitation program' has the meaning given such term in section 3101 
of this title.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice. Criteria. 38 USC 2102b note.>>  Regulations.--
The Secretary may provide assistance under section 2102B of such title, 
as added by subsection (a), in advance of regulations by issuing notice 
specifying the criteria for the application, approval, and oversight 
processes relating to the provision of assistance under such section.

[[Page 132 STAT. 1377]]

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Scope of services and assistance for training and 
        rehabilitation.--Section 3104 of such title is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(d) The Secretary may not assist a veteran in acquiring 
adaptations to the residence of the veteran under this chapter. Any such 
assistance may be furnished only under section 2102B of this title.''.
            (2) Members of the armed forces residing outside the united 
        states.--Section 2101A of such title is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (d); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following 
                new subsection (c):

    ``(c) Limitation.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), this 
section shall not apply to the provision of assistance under section 
2102B of this title.''.
            (3) Benefits additional to benefits under other laws.--
        Section 2104 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``; however'' and 
                all that follows through ``once'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking the second 
                sentence; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  The Secretary may not provide 
assistance to a veteran under this chapter if the Secretary determines 
such assistance would result in a duplication of benefits under this 
title to the veteran.''.
            (4) Exception to mandatory life insurance.--Section 2106(a) 
        of such title is amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) The Secretary shall insure any individual under 70 years of 
age who has received assistance under this chapter against the death of 
the individual except for an individual who--
            ``(1) elects in writing to not receive insurance under this 
        section;
            ``(2) fails to respond in a timely manner to a request from 
        the Secretary for information on which the premium for such 
        insurance can be based; or
            ``(3) receives such assistance under section 2102B of this 
        title.''.

[[Page 132 STAT. 1378]]

    (d) <<NOTE: 38 USC 2101 prec.>>  Clerical Amendment.--The table of 
sections at the beginning of chapter 21 of such title is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 2102A the following new 
item:

``2102B. Adaptations to residences of veterans in rehabilitation 
           programs.''.

    Approved June 1, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3562:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-386 (Comm. on Veterans' Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 163 (2017):
                                    Nov. 6, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 164 (2018):
                                    May 16, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>