[115th Congress Public Law 120]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 27]]

                    FOURTH CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
 FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018, FEDERAL REGISTER PRINTING SAVINGS, HEALTHY KIDS, 
                       HEALTH-RELATED TAXES, AND 
                            BUDGETARY EFFECTS

[[Page 132 STAT. 28]]

Public Law 115-120
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
      September 30, 2018, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 22, 
                          2018 -  [H.R. 195]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Federal Register Printing Savings Act of 2017.>>  A--
FEDERAL REGISTER PRINTING SAVINGS ACT OF 2017
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 44 USC 101 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Federal Register Printing 
Savings Act of 2017''.
SEC. 2. RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION OF FREE PRINTED COPIES OF 
                    FEDERAL REGISTER TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND 
                    FEDERAL EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Restrictions.--Section 1506 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Administrative Committee'' and 
        inserting ``(a) Composition; Duties.--The Administrative 
        Committee'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ``the number of 
        copies'' and inserting ``subject to subsection (b), the number 
        of copies''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Regulations.>>  Restrictions on Distribution of Free 
Printed Copies to Members of Congress and Officers and Employees of the 
United States.--
            ``(1) Prohibiting subscription to printed copies without 
        request.--Under the regulations prescribed to carry out 
        subsection (a)(4), the Director of the Government Publishing 
        Office may not provide a printed copy of the Federal Register 
        without charge to any Member of Congress or any other office of 
        the United States during a year unless--
                    ``(A) the Member or office requests a printed copy 
                of a specific issue of the Federal Register; or
                    ``(B) during that year or during the previous year, 
                the Member or office requested a subscription to printed 
                copies of the Federal Register for that year, as 
                described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Administration of subscriptions.--The regulations 
        prescribed to carry out subsection (a)(4) shall include--

[[Page 132 STAT. 29]]

                    ``(A) <<NOTE: Notifications.>>  provisions regarding 
                notifications to offices of Members of Congress and 
                other offices of the United States of the restrictions 
                of paragraph (1);
                    ``(B) provisions describing the process by which 
                Members and other offices may request a specific issue 
                of the Federal Register for purposes of paragraph 
                (1)(A); and
                    ``(C) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  provisions describing 
                the process by which Members and other offices may 
                request a subscription to the Federal Register for 
                purposes of paragraph (1)(B), except that such 
                regulations shall limit the period for such a 
                subscription to not longer than 1 year.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 44 USC 1506 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect January 1, 2018.

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018.>>  
B--EXTENSION OF CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2018

    Sec. 2001.  The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2018 (division D of 
Public Law 115-56) is amended--
            (1) by striking the date specified in section 
        106(3) <<NOTE: 131 Stat. 1141.>>  and inserting ``February 8, 
        2018''; and
            (2) by adding after section 147 <<NOTE: 131 Stat. 2045.>>  
        the following:

    ``Sec. 148.  Funds appropriated by the Department of Defense Missile 
Defeat and Defense Enhancements Appropriations Act, 2018 (division B of 
Public Law 115-96) may be obligated and expended notwithstanding section 
504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    ``Sec. 149.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `Department 
of Agriculture--Food and Nutrition Service--Child Nutrition Programs' to 
carry out section 749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-80) may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
necessary to ensure that the program can be fully operational by May 
2018.
    ``Sec. 150.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration--Exploration' may be apportioned up 
to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the planned launch 
capability schedules for the Space Launch System launch vehicle, 
Exploration Ground Systems, and Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle 
programs.
    ``Sec. 151.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `Department 
of Energy--Energy Programs--Office of the Inspector General' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to sustain staffing 
levels achieved on June 30, 2017.
    ``Sec. 152.  Amounts made available by section 101 for `Small 
Business Administration--Business Loans Program Account' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate 
increased demand for commitments for general business loans authorized 
under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)).
    ``Sec. 153.  For 2018, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may make temporary adjustments to the Section 8 housing 
choice voucher annual renewal funding allocations and administrative fee 
eligibility determinations for public housing agencies in an area for 
which the President declared a disaster in 2017 or 2018 under title IV 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq.), to avoid significant adverse funding impacts 
that would otherwise

[[Page 132 STAT. 30]]

result from the disaster and that would otherwise prevent a public 
housing agency from leasing up to its authorized level of units under 
contract (but not to exceed such level), upon request by and in 
consultation with a public housing agency and supported by documentation 
as required by the Secretary that demonstrates the need for the 
adjustment.
    ``Sec. 154. (a) <<NOTE: Furloughs.>>  Employees furloughed as a 
result of any lapse in appropriations which begins on or about January 
20, 2018, shall be compensated at their standard rate of compensation, 
for the period of such lapse in appropriations, as soon as practicable 
after such lapse in appropriations ends.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, 
`employee' means:
            ``(1) a federal employee;
            ``(2) an employee of the District of Columbia Courts;
            ``(3) an employee of the Public Defender Service for the 
        District of Columbia; or
            ``(4) a District of Columbia Government employee.

    ``(c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the appropriations 
made and authority granted by this division for the purposes of 
maintaining the essential level of activity to protect life and property 
and bringing about orderly termination of Government functions, and for 
purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby ratified and 
approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of this division.
    ``Sec. 155. (a) If a State (or another Federal grantee) used State 
funds (or the grantee's non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out a 
Federal program or furloughed State employees (or the grantee's 
employees) whose compensation is advanced or reimbursed in whole or in 
part by the Federal Government--
            ``(1) such furloughed employees shall be compensated at 
        their standard rate of compensation for such period;
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Reimbursement.>>  the State (or such other 
        grantee) shall be reimbursed for expenses that would have been 
        paid by the Federal Government during such period had 
        appropriations been available, including the cost of 
        compensating such furloughed employees, together with interest 
        thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of title 31, United 
        States Code; and
            ``(3) the State (or such other grantee) may use funds 
        available to the State (or the grantee) under such Federal 
        program to reimburse such State (or the grantee), together with 
        interest thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of title 31, 
        United States Code.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  For purposes of this section, the term 
`State' and the term `grantee' shall have the meaning as such term is 
defined under the applicable Federal program under subsection (a). In 
addition, `to continue carrying out a Federal program' means the 
continued performance by a State or other Federal grantee, during the 
period of a lapse in appropriations, of a Federal program that the State 
or such other grantee had been carrying out prior to the period of the 
lapse in appropriations.

    ``(c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  The authority under this section 
applies with respect to any period in fiscal year 2018 (not limited to 
periods beginning or ending after the date of the enactment of this 
division) during which there occurs a lapse in appropriations with 
respect to any department or agency of the Federal Government which, but 
for such lapse in appropriations, would have paid, or made reimbursement 
relating to, any of the expenses referred to in this section

[[Page 132 STAT. 31]]

with respect to the program involved. Payments and reimbursements under 
this authority shall be made only to the extent and in amounts provided 
in advance in appropriations Acts.''.

    Sec. 2002.  The Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2018 (division A of Public Law 115-96) is amended by striking section 
1002. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1881 note. Time period.>> 

    Sec. 2003.  For the purposes of division D of Public Law 115-56, the 
time covered by such division shall be considered to include the period 
which began on or about January 20, 2018, during which there occurred a 
lapse in appropriations.
     This division may be cited as the ``Extension of Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2018''.

 DIVISION <<NOTE: Helping Ensure Access for Little Ones, Toddlers, and 
  Hopeful Youth by Keeping Insurance Delivery Stable Act. 42 USC 1305 
note.>>  C--HEALTHY KIDS ACT
SEC. 3001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Helping Ensure Access for Little 
Ones, Toddlers, and Hopeful Youth by Keeping Insurance Delivery Stable 
Act'' or the ``HEALTHY KIDS Act''.
SEC. 3002. SIX-YEAR FUNDING EXTENSION OF THE CHILDREN'S HEALTH 
                          INSURANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2104(a) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(a)), as amended by section 3201(a) of the CHIP 
        and Public Health Funding Extension Act (division C of Public 
        Law 115-96), is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (20)(B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by striking paragraph (21) and inserting the 
                following new paragraphs:
            ``(21) for fiscal year 2018, $21,500,000,000;
            ``(22) for fiscal year 2019, $22,600,000,000;
            ``(23) for fiscal year 2020, $23,700,000,000;
            ``(24) for fiscal year 2021, $24,800,000,000;
            ``(25) for fiscal year 2022, $25,900,000,000; and
            ``(26) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  for fiscal year 2023, for 
        purposes of making two semi-annual allotments--
                    ``(A) $2,850,000,000 for the period beginning on 
                October 1, 2022, and ending on March 31, 2023; and
                    ``(B) $2,850,000,000 for the period beginning on 
                April 1, 2023, and ending on September 30, 2023.''.
            (2) Prevention of duplicate appropriations for fiscal year 
        2018.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, insofar as 
        funds have been appropriated under subsection (a)(21) of section 
        2104 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd), as such 
        subsection is in effect on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, to provide allotments to States under the 
        State Children's Health Insurance Program established under 
        title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.) 
        (whether implemented under title XIX, XXI, or both, of the 
        Social Security Act) for fiscal year 2018--
                    (A) any amounts that are so appropriated that are 
                not so allotted and obligated before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, are rescinded; and

[[Page 132 STAT. 32]]

                    (B) any amount provided for CHIP allotments to a 
                State under this section (and the amendments made by 
                this section) for such fiscal year shall be reduced by 
                the amount of such appropriations so allotted and 
                obligated before such date.

    (b) Allotments.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2104(m) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(m)), as amended by section 3201(b) of the CHIP 
        and Public Health Funding Extension Act (division C of Public 
        Law 115-96), is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                          (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                      striking ``(19)'' and inserting ``(25)'';
                          (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``and 2017'' 
                      and inserting ``, 2017, and 2023''; and
                          (iii) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subclause (I), by striking ``and 
                                paragraph (10)''; and
                                    (II) in subclause (I), by inserting 
                                ``(or, in the case of fiscal year 2018, 
                                under paragraph (4))'' after ``clause 
                                (i)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``2018'' and 
                inserting ``2023'';
                    (C) in paragraph (7)--
                          (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``2017'' 
                      and inserting ``2023'';
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  in subparagraph (B), 
                      in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting 
                      ``(or, in the case of fiscal year 2018, by not 
                      later than the date that is 60 days after the date 
                      of the enactment of the HEALTHY KIDS Act)'' after 
                      ``before the August 31 preceding the beginning of 
                      the fiscal year''; and
                          (iii) in the matter following subparagraph 
                      (B), by striking ``or fiscal year 2016'' and 
                      inserting ``fiscal year 2016, fiscal year 2018, 
                      fiscal year 2020, or fiscal year 2022'';
                    (D) in paragraph (9), by striking ``2018'' and 
                inserting ``2023''; and
                    (E) by amending paragraph (10) to read as follows:
            ``(10) <<NOTE: Time period. Allotment.>>  For fiscal year 
        2023.--
                    ``(A) First half.--Subject to paragraphs (5) and 
                (7), from the amount made available under subparagraph 
                (A) of paragraph (26) of subsection (a) for the semi-
                annual period described in such subparagraph, increased 
                by the amount of the appropriation for such period under 
                section 3002(b)(2) of the HEALTHY KIDS Act, the 
                Secretary shall compute a State allotment for each State 
                (including the District of Columbia and each 
                commonwealth and territory) for such semi-annual period 
                in an amount equal to the first half ratio (described in 
                subparagraph (D)) of the amount described in 
                subparagraph (C).
                    ``(B) Second half.--Subject to paragraphs (5) and 
                (7), from the amount made available under subparagraph 
                (B) of paragraph (26) of subsection (a) for the semi-
                annual period described in such subparagraph, the 
                Secretary shall compute a State allotment for each State 
                (including the District of Columbia and each 
                commonwealth and territory)

[[Page 132 STAT. 33]]

                for such semi-annual period in an amount equal to the 
                amount made available under such subparagraph, 
                multiplied by the ratio of--
                          ``(i) the amount of the allotment to such 
                      State under subparagraph (A); to
                          ``(ii) the total of the amount of all of the 
                      allotments made available under such subparagraph.
                    ``(C) Full year amount based on rebased amount.--The 
                amount described in this subparagraph for a State is 
                equal to the Federal payments to the State that are 
                attributable to (and countable towards) the total amount 
                of allotments available under this section to the State 
                in fiscal year 2022 (including payments made to the 
                State under subsection (n) for fiscal year 2022 as well 
                as amounts redistributed to the State in fiscal year 
                2022), multiplied by the allotment increase factor under 
                paragraph (6) for fiscal year 2023.
                    ``(D) First half ratio.--The first half ratio 
                described in this subparagraph is the ratio of--
                          ``(i) the sum of--
                                    ``(I) the amount made available 
                                under subsection (a)(26)(A); and
                                    ``(II) the amount of the 
                                appropriation for such period under 
                                section 3002(b)(2) of the HEALTHY KIDS 
                                Act; to
                          ``(ii) the sum of--
                                    ``(I) the amount described in clause 
                                (i); and
                                    ``(II) the amount made available 
                                under subsection (a)(26)(B).''.
            (2) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  One-time appropriation for 
        fiscal year 2023.--There is appropriated to the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services, out of any money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, $20,200,000,000 to accompany the 
        allotment made for the period beginning on October 1, 2022, and 
        ending on March 31, 2023, under paragraph (26)(A) of section 
        2104(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(a)) (as 
        added by subsection (a)), to remain available until expended. 
        Such amount shall be used to provide allotments to States under 
        paragraph (10) of section 2104(m) of such Act (as added by 
        paragraph (1)) for the first 6 months of fiscal year 2023 in the 
        same manner as allotments are provided under subsection 
        (a)(26)(A) of such section 2104 and subject to the same terms 
        and conditions as apply to the allotments provided from such 
        subsection (a)(26)(A).

    (c) Extension of the Child Enrollment Contingency Fund.--Section 
2104(n) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(n)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii)--
                          (i) by striking ``2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 
                      2014, and 2016'' and inserting ``2010 through 
                      2014, 2016, and 2018 through 2022''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``fiscal year 2015 and fiscal 
                      year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2015, 
                      2017, and 2023''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--

[[Page 132 STAT. 34]]

                          (i) by striking ``2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 
                      2014, and 2016'' and inserting ``2010 through 
                      2014, 2016, and 2018 through 2022''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``fiscal year 2015 and fiscal 
                      year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2015, 
                      2017, and 2023''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A), in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``or a semi-annual allotment period for fiscal year 
        2015 or 2017'' and inserting ``or in any of fiscal years 2018 
        through 2022 (or a semi-annual allotment period for fiscal year 
        2015, 2017, or 2023)''.

    (d) Extension of Qualifying States Option.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2105(g)(4) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1397ee(g)(4)) is amended--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``through 2017'' and 
                inserting ``through 2023''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``2017'' and 
                inserting ``2023''.
            (2) Technical amendments.--Section 2104(f)(2)(B)(ii) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(f)(2)(B)(ii)), as amended 
        by section 3201(c) of the CHIP and Public Health Funding 
        Extension Act (division C of Public Law 115-96), is amended--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``for the month 
                (as defined in subclause (II))'' and inserting ``(as 
                defined in subclause (II)) for the month'';
                    (B) in subclause (II), by inserting ``, as in effect 
                on the day before the date of the enactment of the 
                HEALTHY KIDS Act,'' after ``section 2105(g)(4)(A)''; and
                    (C) in subclause (VI)--
                          (i) by inserting ``, as in effect on the day 
                      before the date of the enactment of the HEALTHY 
                      KIDS Act'' after ``, section 2105(g)(4)''; and
                          (ii) by inserting ``, as so in effect'' after 
                      ``under section 2105(g)(4)''.

    (e) Extension of Express Lane Eligibility Option.--Section 
1902(e)(13)(I) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(e)(13)(I)) is 
amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2023''.
    (f) Assurance of Affordability Standard for Children and Families.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2105(d)(3) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1397ee(d)(3)) is amended--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``until 
                october 1, 2019'' and inserting ``through september 30, 
                2023''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i)--
                          (i) by striking ``2019'' and inserting 
                      ``2023''; and
                          (ii) <<NOTE: Time period. Applicability.>>  by 
                      striking ``The preceding sentence shall not be 
                      construed as preventing a State during such 
                      period'' and inserting ``During the period that 
                      begins on October 1, 2019, and ends on September 
                      30, 2023, the preceding sentence shall only apply 
                      with respect to children in families whose income 
                      does not exceed 300 percent of the poverty line 
                      (as defined in section 2110(c)(5)) applicable to a 
                      family of the size involved.

[[Page 132 STAT. 35]]

                      The preceding sentences shall not be construed as 
                      preventing a State during any such periods''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 1902(gg)(2) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(gg)(2)) is amended--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``until 
                october 1, 2019'' and inserting ``through september 30, 
                2023''; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  by striking ``September 
                30, 2019,'' and inserting ``September 30, 2023 (but 
                during the period that begins on October 1, 2019, and 
                ends on September 30, 2023, only with respect to 
                children in families whose income does not exceed 300 
                percent of the poverty line (as defined in section 
                2110(c)(5)) applicable to a family of the size 
                involved)''.

    (g) CHIP Look-Alike Plans.--
            (1) Blending risk pools.--Section 2107 of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397gg) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:

    ``(g) Use of Blended Risk Pools.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this title (or any other 
        provision of Federal law) shall be construed as preventing a 
        State from considering children enrolled in a qualified CHIP 
        look-alike program and children enrolled in a State child health 
        plan under this title (or a waiver of such plan) as members of a 
        single risk pool.
            ``(2) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  Qualified chip look-alike 
        program.--In this subsection, the term `qualified CHIP look-
        alike program' means a State program--
                    ``(A) under which children who are under the age of 
                19 and are not eligible to receive medical assistance 
                under title XIX or child health assistance under this 
                title may purchase coverage through the State that 
                provides benefits that are at least identical to the 
                benefits provided under the State child health plan 
                under this title (or a waiver of such plan); and
                    ``(B) that is funded exclusively through non-Federal 
                funds, including funds received by the State in the form 
                of premiums for the purchase of such coverage.''.
            (2) Coverage rule.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 5000A(f)(1) of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 5000A.>>  is amended 
                in subparagraph (A)(iii), by inserting ``or under a 
                qualified CHIP look-alike program (as defined in section 
                2107(g) of the Social Security Act)'' before the comma 
                at the end.
                    (B) <<NOTE: 26 USC 5000A note.>>  Effective date.--
                The amendment made by subparagraph (A) shall apply with 
                respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 
                2017.

    (h) Availability of Unused Fiscal Year 2018 Redistribution 
Amounts.--Any amounts that have been redistributed to States under 
subsection (f) of section 2104 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397dd) for fiscal year 2018 that are not, or will not be, expended by 
the end of that fiscal year shall be--
            (1) adjusted by the Secretary before the end of fiscal year 
        2018 to reflect an updated estimate of shortfalls under 
        subsection (f)(2)(A) of such section; and
            (2) available for redistribution under subsection (f) of 
        such section for subsequent fiscal years.

[[Page 132 STAT. 36]]

SEC. 3003. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS AND DEMONSTRATION 
                          PROJECTS.

    (a) Childhood Obesity Demonstration Project.--Section 1139A(e)(8) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-9a(e)(8)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and $10,000,000'' and inserting ``, 
        $10,000,000''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``2017'' the following: ``, and 
        $30,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2023''.

    (b) Pediatric Quality Measures Program.--Section 1139A(i) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-9a(i)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Out of any'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Out of any'';
            (2) by striking ``there is appropriated for each'' and 
        inserting ``there is appropriated--
                    ``(A) for each'';
            (3) by striking ``, and there is appropriated for the 
        period'' and inserting ``;
                    ``(B) for the period'';
            (4) by striking ``. Funds appropriated under this subsection 
        shall remain available until expended.'' and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  for the period of 
                fiscal years 2018 through 2023, $90,000,000 for the 
                purpose of carrying out this section (other than 
                subsections (e), (f), and (g)).
            ``(2) Availability.--Funds appropriated under this 
        subsection shall remain available until expended.''.
SEC. 3004. EXTENSION OF OUTREACH AND ENROLLMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 2113 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397mm) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
        ``2023''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by striking ``and $40,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``, $40,000,000''; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  by inserting after 
                ``2017'' the following: ``, and $120,000,000 for the 
                period of fiscal years 2018 through 2023''.

    (b) Making Organizations That Use Parent Mentors Eligible To Receive 
Grants.--Section 2113(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1397mm(f)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(E), by striking ``or community-based 
        doula programs'' and inserting ``, community-based doula 
        programs, or parent mentors''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) <<NOTE: Definition.>>  Parent mentor.--The term 
        `parent mentor' means an individual who--
                    ``(A) is a parent or guardian of at least one child 
                who is an eligible child under this title or title XIX; 
                and
                    ``(B) is trained to assist families with children 
                who have no health insurance coverage with respect to 
                improving the social determinants of the health of such 
                children, including by providing--
                          ``(i) education about health insurance 
                      coverage, including, with respect to obtaining 
                      such coverage,

[[Page 132 STAT. 37]]

                      eligibility criteria and application and renewal 
                      processes;
                          ``(ii) assistance with completing and 
                      submitting applications for health insurance 
                      coverage;
                          ``(iii) a liaison between families and 
                      representatives of State plans under title XIX or 
                      State child health plans under this title;
                          ``(iv) guidance on identifying medical and 
                      dental homes and community pharmacies for 
                      children; and
                          ``(v) assistance and referrals to successfully 
                      address social determinants of children's health, 
                      including poverty, food insufficiency, and 
                      housing.''.

    (c) Exclusion From Modified Adjusted Gross Income.--Section 1902(e) 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(e)) is amended--
            (1) in the first paragraph (14), relating to income 
        determined using modified adjusted gross income, by adding at 
        the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(J) Exclusion of parent mentor compensation from 
                income determination.--Any nominal amount received by an 
                individual as compensation, including a stipend, for 
                participation as a parent mentor (as defined in 
                paragraph (5) of section 2113(f)) in an activity or 
                program funded through a grant under such section shall 
                be disregarded for purposes of determining the income 
                eligibility of such individual for medical assistance 
                under the State plan or any waiver of such plan.''; and
            (2) by striking ``(14) Exclusion'' and inserting ``(15) 
        Exclusion''.
SEC. 3005. <<NOTE: Time period.>>  EXTENSION AND REDUCTION OF 
                          ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FINANCIAL 
                          PARTICIPATION FOR CHIP.

    Section 2105(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397ee(b)) is 
amended in the second sentence by inserting ``and during the period that 
begins on October 1, 2019, and ends on September 30, 2020, the enhanced 
FMAP determined for a State for a fiscal year (or for any portion of a 
fiscal year occurring during such period) shall be increased by 11.5 
percentage points'' after ``23 percentage points,''.
SEC. 3006. MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND.

    Section 1941 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w-1) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence, by inserting 
        before the period at the end the following: ``, and, in 
        accordance with subsection (b)(3), for the purposes of 
        subparagraph (B) of such subsection''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                          (i) in the first sentence, by inserting 
                      ``pursuant to paragraph (1)'' after ``in the 
                      Fund'';
                          (ii) by inserting after the first sentence the 
                      following sentence: ``Amounts in the Fund pursuant 
                      to paragraph (3) shall be available in advance of 
                      appropriations but only if the total amount 
                      obligated from the Fund does not exceed the amount 
                      available to the Fund under such paragraph (3).''; 
                      and

[[Page 132 STAT. 38]]

                          (iii) in the last sentence, by striking 
                      ``sentence'' and inserting ``sentences''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) Additional funding for state activities relating to 
        mechanized claims systems.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the amount made 
                available under paragraph (1), there shall be available 
                to the Fund, for expenditures from the Fund in 
                accordance with subparagraph (B), for fiscal year 2023 
                and thereafter, $980,000,000, to remain available until 
                expended.
                    ``(B) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Purposes.--The 
                Secretary shall use amounts made available to the Fund 
                under subparagraph (A) to pay to each State which has a 
                plan approved under this title, for each quarter 
                beginning during or after fiscal year 2023 an amount 
                equal to--
                          ``(i) 100 percent minus the percent specified 
                      in clause (i) of section 1903(a)(3)(A) of so much 
                      of the sums expended by the State during such 
                      quarter as are attributable to the activities 
                      described in such clause;
                          ``(ii) 100 percent minus the Federal medical 
                      assistance percentage applied under clause (iii) 
                      of such section of so much of the sums expended 
                      during such quarter (as found necessary by the 
                      Secretary under such clause) by the State as are 
                      attributable to the activities described in such 
                      clause; and
                          ``(iii) 100 percent minus the percent 
                      specified in section 1903(a)(3)(B) of so much of 
                      the sums expended by the State during such quarter 
                      as are attributable to the activities described in 
                      such section.''.

         DIVISION D--SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN HEALTH-RELATED TAXES

SEC. 4001. EXTENSION OF MORATORIUM ON MEDICAL DEVICE EXCISE TAX.

    (a) In General.--Section 4191(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 <<NOTE: 26 USC 4191.>>  is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

    (b) <<NOTE: 26 USC 4191 note.>>  Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply to sales after December 31, 2017.
SEC. 4002. DELAY IN IMPLEMENTATION OF EXCISE TAX ON HIGH COST 
                          EMPLOYER-SPONSORED HEALTH COVERAGE.

    Section 9001(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is 
amended <<NOTE: 26 USC 4980I note.>>  by striking ``December 31, 2019'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
SEC. 4003. SUSPENSION OF ANNUAL FEE ON HEALTH INSURANCE PROVIDERS.

    (b) In General.--Section 9010(j) of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act is <<NOTE: 26 USC 4001 note prec.>>  amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1),
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting ``, and ending before January 1, 2019, and'', and

[[Page 132 STAT. 39]]

            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) beginning after December 31, 2019.''.

    (c) <<NOTE: 26 USC 4001 note prec.>>  Effective Date.--The 
amendments made by this section shall apply to calendar years beginning 
after December 31, 2018.

                      DIVISION E--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 5001. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) In General.--The budgetary effects of division C and each 
succeeding division shall not be entered on either PAYGO scorecard 
maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act 
of 2010.
    (b) Senate Paygo Scorecards.--The budgetary effects of division C 
and each succeeding division shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard 
maintained for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th 
Congress).
    (c) Classification of Budgetary Effects.--Notwithstanding Rule 3 of 
the Budget Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory 
statement of the committee of conference accompanying Conference Report 
105-217 and section 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of division C and 
each succeeding division shall not be estimated--
            (1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act; and
            (2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of section 3 of the 
        Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 as being included in an 
        appropriation Act.

    Approved January 22, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 195:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-128, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Oversight and Government 
Reform).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 115-184 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 163 (2017):
                                    May 17, considered and passed House.
                                    Dec. 21, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                                        Vol. 164 (2018):
                                    Jan. 18, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment with an amendment. 
                                        Senate considered concurring in 
                                        House amendment.
                                    Jan. 19-21, Senate further 
                                        considered concurring in House 
                                        amendment.
                                    Jan. 22, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment with an amendment. 
                                        House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>